I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I note that in Budget Paper No. 8 the Government records its support for the work of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. However, the Budget itself provides only $640,000 as aid to the High Commissioner compared with total expenditure of almost $3m last year. Am I correct in understanding that this much lower amount represents a grant to the High Commissioner's general program fund only and that the Government will be prepared to give prompt and sympathetic consideration to the provision of entirely additional grants for special appeals which will undoubtedly be needed in the next year to cope with the growing tragedy of the international refugee situation? 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport been drawn to an article in today's  Sydney Morning Herald  about a $lm promotional campaign undertaken by Qantas in Great Britain which shows, I understand, a photograph of a baldheaded, broken-nosed wrestler in a convict jacket holding a tray on which stand a can of Fosters lager and two glasses? Above the picture the heading reads: 'Can you identify an Australian steward by his uniform?' Another advertisement in the series features a jumbo jet constructed with a beer can fuselage and yet another advertisement shows a flock of sheep being loaded into a Qantas jumbo. I ask the Minister: Does he not feel that Qantas has some obligation to its shareholders, the people of Australia, to portray us to the rest of the world in a slightly more civilised light? 
I address my question to the Minister for Science. The Minister will recall that in the 1975 policy statement of the coalition parties undertakings were given to establish a national information office to monitor, store and disseminate scientific information and technical data, and further, to investigate the need for an independent authority to evaluate and assess new scientific and technological processes, products and developments. In view of the fact that these two bodies could make a major impact upon the advancement of scientific and technological development in Australia, can the Minister say what progress has been made in fulfilling these election promises? 
I present the following petition from 33 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned, members of the Sydney University Postgraduate Representative Association, and like minded people, respectfully showeth that the Government decision to tax Commonwealth Postgraduate Research Awards will result in: 
a further serious decline in living standards for postgraduate scholars performing valuable low cost research for the Australian community, and 
a reduction in the standard of research at the universities as top scholars will be forced to reject offers of inadequately financed Research Awards. 
Your petitioners strongly urge that the Commonwealth Government take appropriate action to revert to the former policy of award adjustments in line wtih the Consumer Price Index. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Is the Minister for Education aware of the case of a student, Michael Farrell, of the University of New South Wales? Is it a fact that  Mr Farrell  sought to mount a legal challenge to the actions of the University compelling him to join a student union, to which he had a conscientious objection, and that  Mr Farrell  's challenge was unsuccessful? Have the consequences of that challenge been that  Mr Farrell  sought to appeal against the decision but that the appeal judge refused to hear his appeal until  Mr Farrell  had paid the costs of the first case and lodged a bond for half the costs of the appeal, which  Mr Farrell  was unable to do? As a consequence, has the University of New South Wales moved to place  Mr Farrell  into bankruptcy and denied him permission to complete his studies, thereby effectively ruining the career of this young man? As the Minister responsible for funding tertiary institutions, does not the Minister think that this case reflects very gravely upon the concept of academic freedom as practised by the University of New South Wales, the fact that one can get justice only if one has the money, and the failure of the State Labor Government to end compulsory membership of student unions? What can this Government do to assist  Mr Farrell  as a conscientious objector, recognising that conscientious objection is not a crime, as some honourable senators would imply? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
Did the Minister's Department, or any body for which he is responsible, make any financial or other contribution towards the costs of Australia's participation in the 1976 Olympic Games; if so, what are the details of these costs. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
Did the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, or any other body for which the Treasurer is responsible, make any financial contribution towards the costs of the 1976 Olympic Games, either by grant to the Australian Olympic Federation, or any other forms of sponsorship; if so, what were the amounts involved. 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether his attention has been drawn to reports relating to the publication of a new book entitled  The Secret State  and comments by the author that the aim of publishing the book in part was to destroy the system of voluntary D notices? Does the Minister believe that the current voluntary D notice system is in fact an effective balance between legitimate government secrecy on the one hand and freedom of information and freedom of the Press on the other? 
An American commentator has recently described the three greatest lies of modern society: The first, 'My cheque is in the mail'; the second, 'Of course I will respect you just as much in the morning'; and the third, 'I am from the Government- I'm here to help you'. As a young single man, part of both the credit and the sexual revolutions, I have no comment to make upon the first two propositions, let alone admit whether either of them has ever passed my lips. But I cannot let the third proposition go without comment for I would strongly want to assert that in fact there is no purpose for government other than that of helping people, protecting and encouraging individuals and creating the atmosphere within which that spark of genius, present within every man, is able to burst into flame. 
I am conscious that standing here, the youngest person to address this chamber for over six decades, I do so in several capacities: Firstly, as an individual- unique I hope, and if not yet worth cloning, at least worth listening to; secondly, as a democrat who believes that to govern is to serve; thirdly, as a member of a unique chamber; and, finally, as a Liberal. I wish to comment, in the unique way which a maiden speech allows, upon how I relate each of those capacities to the endless adventure of government. As an individual I see my representative role as being exactly as described by Edmund Burke, when he wrote: 
Certainly ... it ought to be the happiness and glory of a representative to live in the strictest union, the closest correspondence, and the utmost unreserved communication with his constituents. Their wishes ought to have great weight with him; their opinions high respect; their business unremitted attention. It is his duty to sacrifice his repose, his pleasure, his satisfactions to theirs- and above all, and in all cases, to prefer their interest to his own. 
But his unbiased opinion, his mature judgment, his enlightenment and conscience, he ought not to sacrifice to you or to any man, or to any set of men living. These he does not derive from your pleasure- no, nor from the law and the constitution. They are a trust from Providence, for the abuse of which he is deeply answerable. Your representative owes you not his industry only, but his judgment; and he betrays, instead of serving you, if he sacrifices it to your opinion . . . 
As a democrat I regret the imperfections of our political system which are within our power to remedy. Despite what might be my lamentable idealism, I look forward to the days when we have public funding of political parties, disclosure of donations, some register of pecuniary interests, fair redistributions, one vote one value, a revised Federal Constitution and real popular participation in government. If we can do no more, let us at least try to put our own House in order. We, as a class of professionals, are among the most despised and distrusted in the community. I quote the opening of one of Steele Rudd's novels: 
Smith, the member for our district, died one day, and we forgot all about him the next. Not that a politician is ever remembered much after he dies, but Smith had been a blind, bigoted, old Tory, and was better dead. Politicians are mostly better dead, so far as other people and their country are concerned. 
Little, I fear, has changed since 1908 and, frankly, we appear to have given little indication to our electors that it should. I only hope that I do not get the idealism beaten out of me too quickly. While speaking as a democrat, I wish to pause to comment upon the role of the Press in our system of government. I regard a free, responsible Press as the greatest guarantee of our civil liberties- a bulwark against the potential tyranny of both politicians and judges. 'Democracy', said Emerson, 'becomes a government of bullies tempered by editors'. It has always been so with democracies. The politicians of Athens trembled before the pen of Aristophanes, and the anti-war plays of Euripides, Sophocles, or Aeschylus, moved governments. Parliament had no legitimacy until it had seated John Wilkes. Would not Dreyfus have perished on Devil's Island but for the efforts of Zola through  The Auroral  Would not Nixon have further corrupted the White House but for the  Washington Post?  Would there have been a federation without the Melbourne  Age  or the  Bulletin!  Of course, our Press is sometimes sensational, sometimes inaccurate, sometimes self opinionated, sometimes downright mischievous. But before we berate the Press for that, let us recall the injunction of St Matthew to  first cast out the beam out of thine own eye '. The media should be our ally in a service of the people of Australia. So I plead with those people in government to realise that excessive secrecy, far from advancing the democratic processes, is in fact potentially destructive of them. 
As a senator I am conscious of just how unique this House of review is. In recent years, indeed in recent maiden speeches by honourable senators on both sides of this House, the role of the Senate has been analysed, either to destroy or to enhance its powers. I for one would not forgo any part of its unique character or sacrifice one iota of its inherent powers. Our Senate might never have rung with the voice of a Cicero or a Cato, nor has it produced a Cataline. It has not been moved by the oratory of a Clay or a Webster- Daniel Webster if the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  will forgive me- nor has it foundered upon the bigotry of a Calhoun, but it has done what no Roman Senate ever sought to do and what most American Senates lamentably have failed to do; it has ensured that an executive government remained responsible to the wishes of the people and the States, whose House this is, remained accountable to them and, if necessary, compelled to face their awesome judgment. To many people Parliament is a mere talking shop. I do not decry this as one of its roles. It is its original role, after all- the role of Simon de Montfort, of Pym, of Hampden, of Milton and of Mill. Change is inevitable, whatever shellback reactionaries might think, no matter how much they might regret it. 
I see but three methods of change: We can be forced into violent and unpredictable change; we can drift or fall into unprepared and unordered change; or we can talk and argue ourselves into rational change. Herein is the genius of our parliamentary institutions and the genius of this House of review in particular. When talking of the Senate we must recall that it is the sine qua non of Australian federation. Its role as a States 
House still has great contemporary relevance. But above all I am an Australian, like millions of other people by choice and not by birth. Whilst I will ever seek to protect the interests of my State of New South Wales, I am conscious of the fact that above all my duty is to all of the people of Australia. 
At this stage I wish to pay several tributes: Firstly,  Mr President,  to you on your re-election to your high office. The prestige which that office gives you is exceeded far by the integrity and lustre which you impart to the office. May I also pay tribute to the officers of the Senate and to the various staffs in the parliamentary service for their kindness to me as a new senator. Secondly, I pay tribute to my predecessor,  Sir Robert  Cotton. Bob Cotton is a truly great Australian and a great Liberal. As a son of that Liberal bastion- Broken Hill, he rose to be a distinguised State  President  of my party and a Minister for Industry and Commerce who never forgot his country origins. He has left here to continue his great and distinguished public service to the nation which he already has faithfully served, both in war and in peace. Finally, I record my thanks to my political party, which has sent me here as  Sir Robert  Cotton's replacement, and to the Young Liberal Movement, to which I owe so much. I shall serve them as they would expect of me. 
I said that I stood here as a Liberal. There is no finer tradition in the history of mankind than the Liberal tradition. Because I believe above all in the individual, in diversity, in tolerance, and in caring about my fellow creatures, I could be only a Liberal. The Liberal tradition is long and proud. One can trace it from Aristotle. This tradition is based fundamentally on the recognition of the inherent dignity of each individual, his or her inherent value, and upon respect for the endless manifestation of human character and diversity. Liberalism asserts that solutions to human problems are within the human ken. As a Liberal I assert a faith in an optimism about our ability to survive and to progress, to build a society which in encouraging the bold, allowing the industrious to profit, rewarding the innovative and the excellent, equally manages to protect the weak, help the infirm, care for the sick and succour the needy. My philosophy recognises that the success of each individual contributes directly to the well-being of all individuals. We aim to provide a more equal society, not by penalising the successful but rather by encouraging more success in all. 
I personally reject the failed dogmas of both conservatism and socialism. Conservatism must  fail because it seeks to retard that most characteristic of human endeavours- the need to change, to move forward, to replace old gods with new ones and old institutions with better ones. Socialism fails because it seeks to deny an equally strong human characteristic- the need to be different, to escape from the grey uniformity of the pack and the  facelessness  of the mob. Its deadening hand of conformity and centralism and its insidious tools of the caucus and the closed shop always fail. Socialism abuses imagined monopolies, much like Satan rebuking sin, while attempting to impose state monopolies everywhere. In seeking to level- it never equalises, in seeking to prevent the success of the strong, it denies the chance of protection to the weak. My word need not be relied upon alone to expose the pessimism of socialism contrasted with the optimism of my Liberal philosophy. On 14 September in the other place  Mr Barry  Jones described the differences between our philosophies. About liberalism he said: 
Optimistic about the ability of individuals to advance themselves within the . . . economic system. 
Confident in the capacity of people to solve their own problems . . . 
As to socialism he said: 
Pessimistic about the ability of individuals to advance themselves within the . . . economic system. 
Confident in the capacity of institutions and systems (especially new ones) to solve problems: pessimistic about personal capacity. 
Both conservatism and socialism seek to restrain and restrict the individual, one by fossilising the artificial barriers of class, the other by erecting the artificial barriers of state-ism. My philosophy of individual capacity and enterprise is encapsulated in the words of Blake, who wrote: 
Why stand we here, trembling all around, calling on God for help and not ourselves in whom God dwells. 
But my tradition is not one of mere words. Let it be clearly recorded, firmly asserted and proudly boasted that it was the Liberals of their day who curbed the power of the Crown, who extended the suffrage, who freed the Press, who took the children out of the mines and who, above all, ended the trade in human slaves. The Liberal tradition has unique characteristics and achievements in Australia. To the credit of Australian Liberals belong the following firsts: National old age pension system; arbitration system; tariff protection of local industries; federal railway system; compensation legislation; Commonwealth involvement in education; votes for women and 18-year-olds; free compulsory and secular education; the free Press; the secret ballot; the opening of our land to free settlement. Above all, without Australian Liberals there would in fact have been no Australian Commonwealth. Let me pay tribute to two outstanding Australian Liberals by quoting their words with unreserved admiration. The first said: 
The characteristic of the Liberal party through the century has been resistance to and destruction of class privileges. It has not yet been successful in sweeping these all away, but has limited them more narrowly where it has not removed them . . . Other great works of Liberalism have been the removal of the religious disabilities of nonconformists and Roman Catholics and the abolition of the laws against trades unionism. Equality of political rights without reference to creed, and equality of legal rights without consideration of wealth or quality, are insisted upon. In this country Liberalism has been identified with every broad movement based on similar principles. The question was whether it would stop short of female suffrage. Not only did it seem . . . that the female suffrage was a necessary corollary of . . . Liberalism, but also of one man one vote . . . The reconstructive element in Liberalism must in future come to the front. In political economy, having induced politicians to discard the old programme, the devil take the hindmost' Liberalism would now inculcate a new teaching with regard to the poorest in the community, that all should have what was their due. By fixing a minimum rate of wages and wise factory legislation wealth would be prevented from taking unfair advantage of the needy and the latter would be saved from leading wretched and imperfect lives ... It was the duty of Liberals to study such questions and to tread as ever the paths of progress. In doing so, they would make mistakes but they would leave the world on the whole a better place than they found it. 
The second said:   . . The real freedoms are to worship, to think, to speak, to choose, to be ambitious, to be independent, to be industrious, to acquire skill, to seek reward. These are the real freedoms, for these are of the essence of the nature of man. 
In a vision of the future, therefore, I see the individual and his encouragement and recognition as the prime motive force for the building of a better world. Socialism means high costs, inefficiency, the constant intrusion of political considerations, the damping down of enterprise, the overlordship of routine. None of these elements can produce progress, and without progress security will turn out to be a delusion. 
There cannot be rising living standards if all we propose to do is to redistribute what we now have. We must produce more and produce it more cheaply if we are to survive and grow. 
There is no room in Australia for a party of reaction. There is no useful place for a policy of negation. 
Deakin and Menzies- in what a tradition to follow. I fully recognise that my philosophy is more under challenge today than ever. It is a challenge I face with confidence. The greatest threat I see is the prospect of progressive dehumanisation of our society by new advances in technology. The process is already well advanced. Even now there are elements in Australia seeking to replace the government of men by the administration of things, a trend to which we in Parliament have contributed by unthinkingly vesting power over people in non-elected bodies and corporations  and by seeking to rely upon ombudsmen and tribunals to protect the rights of individuals when in fact it is we who should be making the decisions and we who should be providing the protection. 
Man has always been a technological creature from the first Neanderthal toolmaker on, and every technological device contains some inherent power to dehumanise if we let it. As a species we have always managed to cope with technological change, but today's pace of change has accelerated beyond the pace of our comprehension. Puck promised Oberon he would put a girdle around the earth in 40 minutes. The Overseas Telecommunications Commission will do it 40 times a minute. In the 1 950s a computer to replicate the functions of the brain would have been larger than the city of London. The transistor reduced it to the size of the railway station; microelectronics to the size of a large desk. Silicon chips allow us to hold it in our hands. Tomorrow we may be able to put it in our pockets. But for all that, what computer will be moved to tears by the agony of Lear or to ecstacy by the music of Bach. And ultimately, behind the computer there must be a man. 
Despite the challenges, I remain an optimist. Indeed, I fully endorse  The Mikado's  condemnation of  the idiot who praises with enthusiastic tone every century but this and every country but his own '. 
Today's age may be the most frightening but it is also the most promising. However, a belief that solutions will be found is absolutely no excuse for not acting on the immediate problems of the day. To say tomorrow, next year, whenever, will be better is of no value to the person facing problems here and now. The promises of a better tomorrow are no reason to continue with a less satisfactory today. Current problems demand current answers. Indeed, to sacrifice the people of the present upon the altar of an unknowable future is as irresponsible as sacrificing them upon the altar of an unrecallable past. The solutions, honourable senators, lie here in this Parliament with us now. It is our responsibility as elected representatives to address ourselves accordingly, to remember that we are not sent here to scratch out each other's eyes, no matter how much we might enjoy that sort of thing, but to serve the people who sent us here. As I said, that is a job for us, not for somebody else- some committee, some interdepartmental committee, some department, some royal commission or some inquiry. Democrats throughout the history of the world have not fought, and bled and died to overthrow the divine right of kings simply to see us fall down before the divine right of experts. We as a Parliament must seek to identify problems before they arise and respond accordingly. We must do so with our focus upon what will serve each individual Australian. 
The Telecom dispute need not have happened had a pigheaded management understood that there are inherent risks in putting machines before men and profits before people. What man would be a man if he did not defend himself against such a threat? But these disputes will continue and multiply until we take back some of the powers to make decisions about the future of this nation which previous parliaments have so cavalierly given away. Nevertheless it must be recognised that all the science and technology in the world will not solve the fundamental problems of our society- problems which are essentially ones of human relationships and ones which demand human solutions. It may be said that just as technology will not solve all our ills, nor will legislation. But legislation at least can be sufficiently enlightened to create or maintain a framework within which solutions can be sought and found. 
I will illustrate some of the areas where, in my humble and inexperienced view, Parliament itself will need to display greater tolerance, sympathy and understanding. I believe that the recognition of the frailness of mankind is as important as the recognition of its strengths, and that a certain feeling of tenderness towards those frailties is the spirit of all great government. For instance, where the law is basically made by men, how easy it is to pass legislation about women's issues that are not worth a tinker's curse. How long are we going to have our heads in the sand about issues such as contraception or birth control? How much longer must we acquiesce in a situation where effective information about these matters is systematically denied to young girls by a conspiracy of silence on the part of politicians, educators and the media? How many more deaths, how many more unloved children need there be before we wake up? How little we as politicians, understand the problems of the unwanted child or the abused wife? We waste public time, for instance, abusing the women's refuge movement instead of recognising and supporting its potential to undertake a social task the value of which is beyond measure and which cannot be fulfilled by traditional welfare bodies no matter how well intentioned they may be. Can we not respond to the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships with more intelligence? It is about time we understood the dimensions of the drug problem and the marihuana problem in particular. It is about time we woke up to what young people are telling us about their concerns. Surely it is not beyond us to develop responses that are realistic, humane and, above all, effective. We have none of these at present. It is about time that the rights and justices which we so correctly demand for the oppressed in Russia or Chile are no longer denied to our own Aboriginal people. It is about time our tolerance and maturity reached such a position that we recognised the rights of gay people or other minority groups to live their lives according to their own dictates so long as they do not trespass upon the rights of others. 
Finally, it is about time we added the capacity to feel to the capacity to think as politicians. Words, words, mere words, no matter from the heart;', lamented Shakespeare's Troilus. How right he was. Can we not recognise and respond to the fact that the Heart has reasons which Reason may not know? Not all problems require quantitative or material responses from government. In many cases just a little more humanity, just a little more tolerance, just a little more sympathy, would suffice. It is all too easy for an overwhelmingly middle-aged male, white, upper income parliament to make laws for people who have little or no direct voice here and then boast about its great deeds. How often do we consult the people for whom we make laws when they are not powerful and organised parts of society? When we congratulate ourselves upon the year's legislative program. How much I am reminded of Romeo's taunt: 'He jests at scars, that never felt a wound'. 
What I have said will sound naive and radical to some. Even at my tender years I am no stranger to that accusation but I maintain my position because it falls so completely within the Liberal tradition of respect for the individual in all his or her manifestations of diversity. I would be less than honest in my maiden speech, given the times, if I did not advert to one great issue facing the Government of which I am so proud to be a member. 
The problem of unemployment, youth unemployment in particular, is the spectre haunting Australia. I can proffer no solutions in these few minutes. I can only commend  Mr Tony  Street for his airing of this problem with startling clarity and honesty. I can only re-echo the warnings of the consequences for our society should we fail to make inroads on the problem. I can only assert that what we are dealing with is no less a matter than the future of a whole generation of young 
Australians and the future generations which they will produce. In short, what is at stake may well be the survival of our society and our nation as we know it. The legitimacy of this Government at the next election will rightly depend upon the success which it has demonstrated in solving this problem more than any other issue. Traditionally the Government parties have been the ones which achieve a maximum level of employment. Here is one tradition we overthrow at our peril. 
In the final analysis we mere men and women can do no more than our best making way for others if our best is not good enough. Let us at least seek to make our touchstone the words of Wolsey: 
Be just and fear not, 
Let all the ends thou aim'st at be thy country's, 
Thy God 's and truth 's. 
If we do, perhaps when future generations review what we have sought to do they will not have cause to dismiss us, like poor Smith, but rather will have some respect for what we honestly strove to achieve, and that our memories, like those of the Grecian heroes of old, may be graven not so much on stone as in the hearts of men. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. It relates to the provision of compensation for people injured while playing sport- a matter highlighted by several recent deaths and severe injuries in New South Wales. Is the Minister aware that in early 1977 the New South Wales Workers Compensation Act was amended to protect clubs from being required to pay compensation to their injured players and that the State Government is now advertising in the newspapers details of a sports insurance scheme? Has this scheme any legislative basis? If not, despite the fact that the scheme has been advertised on three separate occasions, will the Minister bring this matter to the attention of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to see if action could be taken under the Trade Practices Act against those responsible for this misleading advertisement? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the New South Wales Government refused to grant a commission to the Federal Royal Commission on Drugs? Does the lack of such a commission prevent the Federal Royal Commission from issuing summonses in New South Wales to persons who may be able to give evidence relevant to the suspected links between organised crime and drug trafficking which seems to be of considerable dimension? Can the Minister say whether the findings of the Federal Royal Commission may be inconclusive because it cannot interrogate New South Wales witnesses unless such witnesses volunteer to give evidence? Finally, by contrast, have the governments of Queensland, Victoria, Tasmania and Western Australia granted such commissions to the Federal Royal Commission? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
Did the Australian Government make any contribution towards the costs of Australia's participation in the 1976 Olympic Games; if so, what was this contribution and to whom was it paid. 
I preface a question to the Minister for Education by drawing the Senate's attention to the very substantial Commonwealth education funds allocated to New South Wales each year and to the widespread concern being expressed in that State at the Labor Government's proposal to hand over the administration of education to an unrepresentative education commission. Can the Minister assure the Senate that he will take up with his New South Wales counterpart,  Mr Bedford,  the dangerous abrogation of the principle of ministerial responsibility represented by the New South Wales Minister's proposal to hand over the spending of public money from Commonwealth and State funds to a body that is dominated by representatives of the New South Wales Teachers Federation? 
I apologise for taking the time of the Senate and for not continuing in the vein established by  Senator Colston  this evening. I want to pick up and develop a point that was inherent in some of the remarks made by  Senator Harradine  and to allude to certain aspects of the drug problem in Australia as I am aware of them. They affect a large number of people of my age, some of whom I know very well. They are users of cannabis and they can give genuine evidence about it. The Senate ought to be aware that these people are evidence of the fact that the current drug laws in Australia are pitiful and inadequate and need the most radical overhaul and change. The fact that  Senator Harradine  in the course of his speech alluded to what he believed to be the unfortunate influence of radical feminism indicates only that there are flowing through society at the moment currents which frankly cannot and will not be resisted, no matter what people may say. Those currents have to be understood and have to be responded to in an intelligent fashion. To a very large extent, the response of people in this country to the problems associated with cannabis in particular are neither intelligent nor effective. 
As I said, I do not know whether I am alone in being able to claim in this Senate that a large number of the people whom I have known since my student days and before that are regular users of marihuana. Those people have had runins with the law in relation to this matter and they are people who are perhaps well placed to add their comments to what people old enough to be their parents have adjudged to be the correct response for society. 

 -No, Senator Harradine was talking about another trend in society which will be as inevitable and as difficult to resist as the one about which I am talking. If we persist in the attitudes that we have at the moment we will bring about a situation which will get progressively worse, and we will be responsible for that happening. An article which appeared in the Melbourne  Sun-Pictorial  of 4 July 1978 is headed: 'Marihuana: The 30 per cent of our youth who have broken the law'. Whilst it may be fairly easy for people to say 'rot' and 'nonsense', it is also necessary for them, if they have some long term commitment to trying to do something to assist young people in the community, to come to grips with the problem. The fact is that that newspaper article and many other articles have demonstrated that we are talking about approximately one-third of the young people in our community who are put in the position of breaching the law quite simply because the law as it stands at the moment has been made and maintained for less than good reason. 
On the point of orderSenator Georges- I have not finished yet. I just want to make certain that we do not fall into the trap of continuing in the adjournment debate a debate which took place during the consideration of our normal business. I do not want to cut  Senator Puplick  short in his remarks. I am very interested in what he has been saying. However, a similar incident occurred the other night and it was ruled that it was in order for an honourable senator to speak in such circumstances. But it seems that tonight it could be quite out of order. I do not want to see established the precedent of continuing until the early hours of the morning the debate on a matter which is the subject of a motion on the Notice Paper. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I submit to you that the debate which took place earlier this evening was a debate on the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare which dealt with a large number of problems. The remarks which I wish to address to the Senate arise from a document which the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has been accused of having suppressed but which in fact is freely available and a royal commission report emanating in South Australia. I submit that it is not my intention to say one word about the Senate Committee report and, therefore, I would not be transgressing the Standing Orders. 
-I turn to what I believe to be a most enlightened comment by an adviser to the American Government. This adviser, who was in Australia in May of this year, told an inquiry what her belief was. She said: 
In the final analysis we are pushed into a corner. We can't outlaw everything. 
She went on to say: 
Legalisation of marihuana- 
Which is not a point of view that I advocate-  is inevitable unless we change our policy on alcohol. 
She went on before this inquiry to say: 
We should move to the legalisation of marihuana and in the first instance we should do it through decriminalisation. 

 Senator W h e el d o n - W h a t does decriminalisation' mean? It is not criminal now. It is meaningless. 
I will come to that in a moment. I have a great deal of admiration for the person who made these remarks, who is, as I said, an adviser to  President  Carter by the name of  Dr Judianne  Densen-Gerber. I advert also to comments made before another inquiry by a person whom I believe has some standing in the community in terms of being able to make remarks about the medical nature of this problem. The remarks that  Dr Dunlop,  the New South Wales  President  of the Australian Medical Association, made were along very much the same lines. 
I believe that we have to reach a situation in which when we come to deal with significant matters that affect the Australian community and a particular section of the Australian community we have to be able to do it in a sense of greater rationality than has occurred in the past. The report prepared by the drug dependence section of the Commonwealth Department of Health, a report that caused some controversy when it was alleged that this document had been suppressed when in fact it is quite freely available in the Parliamentary Library, is one of the areas which I believe ought to be explored by honourable senators to some advantage. The line that it adopts is basically to try to present in a coherent and well-prepared manner the arguments on this sensitive question. 
Very few people, I believe, have made as much of an important contribution to the Australian community as that which is being made at the moment by the royal commission sitting in South Australia. That royal commission has tried to present by way of argument, by way of discussion and by way of presentation of facts certain material that ought to be studied and studied closely. That royal commission has identified a number of ways in which we could move towards some rational response to this problem. Page 96 of the report of the South Australian royal commission states: 
The major policy question is often seen to be whether the use of cannabis should be 'legalised' or 'decriminalised'. These terms are misleading. There are basically five policy choices: total prohibition, the prohibition/civil penalty model, partial prohibition, the regulatory model and free availability. 
I am one of those people who would put, as a quite clear caveat on expressing any view, that the final of those views, free availability, is not one that I support. What we are facing at the moment, however, is a degree of confusion existing in the minds of law makers and law enforcers. That arises, as it does I believe in any situation, when the law is seen to be failing in the purpose for which it is supposed to operate; that of preventing a certain activity from taking place. 
-My view on this is that there comes a stage when, in attempting to balance the requirements of what one might call some sort of social protection and the requirements of the civil liberties of the individual, one has to move towards saying that those who are prepared to consume or partake of this particular drug in a way that causes no offence to the community, and refrain from any activity such as being in control of a motor vehicle or anything of that nature should be allowed - 
In exactly the same way as one proves being in control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol. 
-No, I am not joking at all. 
-If the honourable senator were a little more au fait with some of the literature from the United States about the way in which this matter could be proven he would not make such a statement. The education discussion paper that was put out by the same royal commission, at page 2 1 reads: 
Therefore the adult world, rather than that of the school, must be the first target for drug education if the 'drug problem ' is not to await its solution for a very long time. 
I would hope that, given the exigencies of getting through Government business during the rest of this session, it would be possible to get back onto the notice paper a continuation of the debate that was taking place earlier this evening. I believe that unless the national Parliament is prepared to look at these matters and to engage in a debate which, hopefully, would be a debate of rationality and not of sloganeering, which hopefully would be a debate in which the division between the parties in this chamber counted for nothing, we will be faced with having failed in our very clear responsibility to a very large section of the electorate. I believe that there comes a point at which honourable senators who are interested in the matter should be able to state their view on it within a context of how they perceive personal relationships and how they perceive the right of individuals to go about their business of living their own lives. 

 - Senator, that applies, as you well know, in just about every situation, and as I said when you were not present in the chamber. 
-I said,  Senator, at  an earlier dme that I hoped this debate could be conducted without sloganeering. 
I believe that anything which involves the situation of so many young people in this community is a matter for community debate. I regret that it seems on this matter, as on several others, that the people who would most like to disrupt my train of thought, or the expression of my opinion, tend to be on this side of the division. Some time ago- in fact more than a century ago- when John Stuart Mill was writing about the rights and responsibilities of the individual, he wrote that the only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over a member of a civilised community against his will is to prevent harm to others.  His  own good, either physical or moral, is not a sufficient warrant. The only part of the conduct of anyone for which he is amenable to society is that which concerns others. In the part which merely concerns himself, his independence is, of right, absolute. Over himself, over his own body and mind, the individual is sovereign. 
-No, I would not joke about a matter as serious as that. I would not joke about a matter that concerns people who are just as much constituents of mine as they are of any other honourable senator. I would not joke about a situation when I have been personally in contact with so many people who are affected by - 
-I am not talking about doing jobs for them. I am talking about understanding at their own level what they are all about. The remarks of a large number of honourable senators quite clearly indicate the extent to which their prejudices are being imposed on other people, as distinct from seeking to serve people who have their own opinions. Having attempted to put into the record the fact that views are held by members of my political Party which are not entirely monolithic on this question, I simply want to say that there are great and pressing issues on which people must take a stand. As honourable senators will know, it is virtually impossible for a new member of parliament to have a significant influence on the preparation and delivery of government legislation. Therefore, what a junior member of the Senate can do is at least to indicate to people in the community who are concerned about a particular point of view that there is somebody who at least is prepared to be sympathetic, somebody who is prepared to consider the fact that old solutions demonstrably are not working and that new solutions demonstrably are required. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Since the presentation of the statement on Australia's 'International Civil Aviation Policy' by the Minister for Transport last week, has the Minister's attention been drawn to the following: Firstly, claims by  Sir Freddie  Laker that the Minister for Transport has deliberately distorted his Skytrain proposals; secondly, the suggestion that cheaper air fares will not be available to Australian travellers before Christmas 1979; thirdly, the possibility that airlines such as JAT, KLM and UTA will be forced off the EuropeAustralia run; fourthly, the suggestion that Australia-United Kingdom flights will be reduced from 1 7 to seven a week ex-Sydney and from 17 to five a week ex-Melbourne; and, fifthly, the generally-held editorial view that the announcement serves only to protect and to featherbed Qantas to the financial detriment of Australian travellers and potential tourists coming to Australia? In the light of these serious allegations, can the Minister say whether any of these allegations are true? To allow the Parliament to examine these matters in more detail, will the Minister press to ensure that debate on the Minister's statement is brought forward in the Parliament with the minimum degree of delay? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 August 1 978: 
How much did the Australian Broadcasting Commission pay for television rights or for films of the events of the 1976 Olympic Games. 
) Has the Australian Broadcasting Commission made an estimation of the costs which might be involved in its securing television rights for the 1 980 Olympic Games in Moscow. 
I am particularly pleased that the first piece of legislation to which I have an opportunity to address my remarks in the Senate should be a matter dealing with the problems of science and technology in Australia. I do not believe that any single area is in need of greater public attention and greater parliamentary attention or that there is indeed any area where that attention would be more profitable for improving the wellbeing of Australia as a nation and of its people. I am equally pleased that this debate can take place in basically a non-partisan fashion. It is at times like this that I think the Parliament is doing its most useful work. In speaking to this piece of legislation I want to take the opportunity to range a little away from the immediate provisions of it and to try to place the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation within the general context of science policy in Australia and within the general context of what the Government and private research organisations are capable of doing. 
I will refer also to the responsibilities of people involved in science and technology as a whole. Legislation concerning CSIRO gives me a unique opportunity to do so. CSIRO manages to combine not only a high level of theoretical scientific work but also a high level of practical application of the technology that arises from it. CSIRO has a long and distinguished history in Australia.  Sir George  Currie and John Graham in their book  The Origins of CSIRO  indicated that this matter pre-occupied the first Federal Parliament. People like Alfred Deakin, Isaac Isaacs, John Quick and W. H. Groom had an interest in establishing an institution of this nature. Within six weeks of the opening of the first Federal Parliament  Sir John  Quick moved a motion which read as follows: 
That in the opinion of this House a national department of agriculture and productive industries on the same lines as that of the United States of America ought to be organized and maintained in connection with the Government of the Commonwealth. 
For various reasons in 1909 and 1913 attempts were made to establish a bureau of agriculture as a forerunner to what is now CSIRO, attempts which proved to be without any practical result. It was indeed, as it is with so many scientific advances, that the exigencies of war propelled this one stage further. In July 1915 those exigencies impelled the Imperial Government in Great Britain to establish an organisation for scientific research to serve the nation during and after the war. When news of this reached Australia later in that year moves initiated in Melbourne led to the announcement by Prime Minister Hughes that a similar scheme would be established in Australia under the auspices of the Commonwealth Government. Indeed, an advisory council on science and industry was established in 1916. This progressed for some time until in 1920 it was decided to convert that council into the Institute of Science and Industrial Research, which, I regret to say, foundered largely because of a lack of government funding being provided at that point of time. 
In 1925 Prime Minister Bruce was determined to make improvements in this field and a conference was called. As a result of that conference, in 1926 the Science and Industry Research Act was passed, establishing the framework of the CSIRO, which has continued by and large to the present date. It was perhaps appropriate that 50 years further on the government of the day decided that the whole of the CSIRO structure- the whole of the operation and the whole of the ethos of the CSIRO- should be put under review. I think that it would be ungracious not to acknowledge that the intellectual effort and the product of the Birch inquiry represent one of the great milestones in the development of national science policy in Australia. This Bill is a response to the Government's decision on 122 recommendations made in the Birch report. I think it is evident from the Bill and from the explanations that have been given by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  that the Government has certainly studied each of these 122 recommendations very carefully and given a considered response to each one. 
The CSIRO is in a unique position in one other way. It has a relationship with the Australian Government and the State governments which in some ways is unique for a scientific institution. The possibilities and the work which an institute such as this is capable of doing are well recognised in the CSIRO thirtieth annual report 1 977-78, which is introduced with these words: 
Science and technology are potent forces for change. Through scientific research man gains a deeper understanding of the world around him, through technology he employs this knowledge to use natural resources to achieve his own ends. 
In the policy statement of the Liberal Party of Australia and the National Country Party, which was published in November 1975, this general principle was contained in the opening statement: 
Advances in science and technology provide a major means for economic growth and progress towards a better quality of life for all mankind. 
Given the general statements which I have just outlined, it becomes important to establish clearly in our own minds the relationship that exists between a body such as the CSIRO and the government in general. Some time ago a person whom I regard as having had one of the most brilliant intellectual minds of the twentieth century, the late  Dr Jacob  Bronowski, published a paper which he entitled: 'The Disestablishment of Science'. He was anxious to make these points about the relationship between scientists and governments: 
A scientist who accepts money from such a source - 
He was referring to government-  cannot be blind to the subtle conformity it imposes on his own conduct and on those who work with him. including his students. The obligations that he silently incurs are dormant, but they are there, and he will be in a quandary whenever a government in trouble decides to make them explicit. 
He went on to indicate certain responsibilities of the scientific community. They are responsibilities to which I shall return when I deal with particular clauses of the Bill. He went on to state: 
We live in a civilization in which science is no longer a profession like any other. For now the hidden spring of power is knowledge; and more than this, power over our environment grows from discovery. Therefore those whose profession is knowledge and discovery hold a place which is crucial in our societies: crucial in importance and therefore in responsibility. This is true for everyone who follows an intellectual profession; in the sense that I have just described it, ours is an intellectual civilization, and the responsibility of a scientist is a particular case of the moral responsibility which every intellectual must accept. 
He went on to write: 
The time has come to consider how we might bring about a separation, as complete as possible, between science and government in all countries. I call this  the disestablishment of science,  in the same sense in which the churches have been disestablished and have become independent of the state . . . 
Evidently the choice of priorities in research should not be left in the hands of governments . . . 
In the long run, the aim should be to get a single and overall fund or grant for research, to be divided by all the scientists in a country. 
To indicate that these are issues to which the Government will have to address itself is really to say no more than that the time has long since passed when Australia should develop an independent and comprehensive science policy- a science policy which will provide within itself a particular role and a relevant role for the CSIRO. I should perhaps indicate something about not only the nature of scientific research which applies on this occasion but also scientific research in general. In an essay on the origin and organisation of national science policies, entitled 'Science for Development', which was published in 1971 under the auspices of the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation, the UNESCO authors stated: 
True, the scientific organization of nations more often reflects the needs of the preceding epoch than that of the stage of development which they have actually reached. Such organization hardly ever leads on naturally to the needs of a future stage, as it ought to do. Research being essentially a preparation for the future, the state of scientific organization of a country ought in fact to give some indication of the shape it will assume tomorrow. 
I believe that we are now facing a situation in which there is a need for an Australian government- any Australian government, Federal or State- to make quite clear its determination to have a national science policy, one which serves as a guide to its future actions and one which identifies the areas which it believes will be best served by the scientific community or, indeed, the areas in which Australia is particularly in need of additional research. In a report which was published in 1974, examiners of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development were critical of the absence of a science policy in Australia at that stage. They stated in their report: 
As there is no Australian economic plan, it is not surprising that there has been little attempt to establish a coherent science policy, or even a research policy, although the need for this now seems to be fairly generally recognised. I put it to the Minister that we are now at a stage where planning is no longer a dirty word and that it is clearly accepted that this country is attempting to pursue a particular economic course- a particular national plan- with economic goals spelt out and being pursued. 
I am sure that these things will be clear to the honourable senator with the passage of time. Therefore, the need for this to spill over at the very least into a scientific policy is a need that I do not think can be ignored any longer. The unique position of the CSIRO has been alluded to already by  Senator Tate  when he remarked on the size of the budget provided for the CSIRO this financial year. The sum of $ 1 4 1 m of the taxpayers ' money is a very substantial investment in scientific research and technological development. It is interesting to note that in both the OECD examiner's report and the report of the task force of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, which was entitled 'Towards Diversity and Adaptability', some criticism was levelled at the nature of the CSIRO and its relationship with the Government. I believe that many of these points have been taken up in the legislation that is now before the Senate and, as the new arrangements become operative, I hope that those criticisms will be addressed and will be faced up to squarely. 
The most important point I want to make before dealing with the clauses of the Bill is this: We are now past the time when individual scientists, and science as a whole, are able to proceed along their own merry course without making some clear statement to the community they are alleged to serve about what they are doing, why they are doing a particular piece of research, and the consequences of that piece of research. The one general area in which I am most critical of this legislation, which I think in other respects is a very admirable piece of legislation, is that it does not seem to me to enshrine in legislative form in the way in which I think it should the need for greater public accountability of what people in the scientific community are doing, particularly those who are doing it with public money. Australian philosphers such as John Passmore have already written quite extensively about the growing public distrust of the scientific community. Marcuse, if anybody needs to be reminded, was writing 15 years ago about the problems of the non-neutrality of science and the need to spell out clearly what scientific developments were all about. 
We know that there are current public concerns about all aspects of science, whether it be socio-biology, the misuse of psychology, recombinant DNA experiments, or the latest technology in the development of the uranium industry. We are witnessing a growth of the sort of Luddite mentality directed towards science which has had its own disastrous consequences that are quite clear for all to see. One does not need to be reminded of the Lysenko period in Soviet science, where a distrust of scientific research was allowed to pervert science for quite unimaginable ends. I know that within the current Australian community the concept of being a latter day or small 'F luddite, whatever term one wants to use, is one that is becoming increasingly fashionable. The call for alternative technologies, alternative sciences, non-exploitive technologies, has to be faced up to. 
I want to turn to the specific clauses of the legislation before us and to say that generally I believe the Bill is an accurate reflection of the recommendations of the Birch report. I am absolutely delighted to see that section 31 has at last disappeared from the old Science and Industry Research Act 1 949- 1 968. Section 3 1 read: 
A member of the Executive, a member of the Advisory Council, a member of a State Committee, an officer or an employee shall not, except in the course of his duty as such a member, officer or employee or with the approval of the Executive, disclose any information concerning the work of the Organisation or the contents of any document in the possession of the Organisation. 
Penalty: Imprisonment for two years. 
I am delighted to see that at least there has been a recognition that section 31 of the old Act is entirely contradictory to the very spirit on which any scientific establishment ought to be based. Proposed new section 9 states in part: 
The functions of the Organisation are- 
to carry out scientific research for any of the following purposes: 
any other purpose determined by the Minister; 
While I accept that that is a perfectly legitimate role for a government which after all is providing the finance for this Organisation, it simply serves to reinforce the point I was making earlier: That when the Government uses a scientific institution such as CSIRO to undertake a particular piece of research by direction, it has incumbent upon it a responsibility to make it clear to the Australian community why such directions are being given, what results it is hoped they will yield, and what application is likely to arise. 
Indeed, and to make the resources available. But the important thing about it is that it is the responsibility of the Minister and of the government of the day to engage in and promote the sort of public debate on science and science policy which for so long has been lacking in Australia. Proposed new section  9AB  deals with the number of institutes to be established, and although I have read carefully the Birch recommendations I am not altogether sure what is magical about the number six. Perhaps the Minister will be good enough to inform me why it is that sub-section (2) of proposed new section  9AB  specifies that at any one time the number shall not exceed six. I do not know whether that has any particular rationale or whether it is just thought to be a convenient and tidy arrangement. 
I turn now to proposed new section 14, which deals with the structure of the Executive of the CSIRO. Quite clearly, this does not follow the proposals set out in the Birch report in recommendation 29. As I understand it, advice may well have been tendered by the CSIRO Executive that the structure of the Executive would be more workable and easier to manage if it were smaller and if it were composed in the way in which the Bill now sets out. As far as that part of the legislation is concerned, I am concerned that when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made his statement in the House of Representatives he presented a document to that House which was the advice he had received from the Australian Science and Technology Council as to the proposals made in the Birch report. Those papers, which I found most useful- and in fact the ASTEC recommendations by and large support entirely the provision that is actually in the Bill- were not presented in the Senate. I think it is one of the regrettable features of the way in which this Parliament operates at the moment that reports and documents which are presented in one House are not presented in the other House. It was almost by sheer accident that I came across this piece of ASTEC advice by reading a throwaway line in the CSIRO 's annual report. I am glad to see that the arguments advanced by ASTEC and, as I understand it, by the CSIRO itself have led to the modification of the original Birch report recommendations as far as the Executive is concerned. 
The second matter that I would be interested to have the Minister clear up on the public record, as it were, although he has already indicated to me in another capacity what the answer is in part, is that proposed new section 14 (4) indicates the requirement that a certain number of members of the Executive 'shall be persons possessing scientific qualifications'. I am a little unclear in that sense as to exactly what a scientific qualification will be taken to be; whether a Bachelor of Science in psychology or a Bachelor of Science in statistics is to be regarded as a scientific qualification or whether some more restricted use of that terminology is envisaged. Proposed new section 23 of the Bill is important. I have already alluded in my maiden speech to the attitude I take towards the disclosure of interests in all forms of public life. I pause on proposed section 23 simply to say that I hope the principles enshrined in that section relating to the CSIRO are principles that will find far wider and more general application throughout all forms of future legislation, and indeed throughout all forms of political behaviour in this country. Proposed new section 32, under the heading of Staff', indicates a degree of relationship between the staff of the CSIRO and the Public Service Board. It states in part: 
The terms and conditions of service (other than in respect of matters provided for by this Act) of officers appointed under this section are such as are, subject to the approval of the Public Service Board, determined by the Executive. 
I note that both the report of the task force of the Royal Commission and recommendation 53 of the Birch inquiry were quite insistent that there should be a very distinct separation between the operations of the Public Service per se and the operations of the CSIRO in terms of staff, employment and management. I hope that that distinction is not being blurred in any way by the words used in proposed new section 32. 
Proposed new section 34 again brings us back to the important question of general responsibilities. Here the Advisory Council is required to furnish advice to the Executive in connection with a number of matters. Recommendation 32 of the 
Birch report suggests that the reporting should give prime consideration to the following: 
broad questions of policy (scientific, technological, industrial, economic, social) required to provide effective scientific and technical directions for the whole organisation . . . 
It is of some distress to me to find that somehow in this particular provision the idea of the word social' has disappeared. I am very concerned to ensure that a body which is using a large amount of government money has the capacity to make reports, recommendations and comments about the social implications of scientific research. I do not mean questions of sociology because I accept entirely that the CSIRO 's function is not to undertake sociological research, but there are social consequences of just about all forms of scientific research likely to be undertaken by the CSIRO. Until it is clear that the CSIRO retains a capacity to talk publicly and to engender public discussion about the social consequences and responsibilities that will arise as a result of whatever other matter it happens to be undertaking, the legislation is defective. I hope that the Minister will be able to give some assurances on that matter. The proposed new section replaces section 15 (1) of the previous legislation which, in some ways, was even less satisfactory. But I do not think that the proposed new section addresses itself properly to a major matter of public concern. 
Proposed new section 35 revives the Advisory Council. I hope that for the first time in five or six years my own State of New South Wales will have the good sense to have a State advisory committee. If one examines the annual reports of the CSIRO for 1973 onwards one will see that State advisory committees are listed for all States except New South Wales owing to a dispute that has taken place between the Commonwealth and New South Wales governments. It is perhaps one of the more disgraceful features of Commonwealth-States relations in that period that New South Wales was deprived of an opportunity- largely, it must be confessed, through the pig-headedness of its own Government at the time- to establish and use the facilities of an advisory committee. This is particularly as one of the projects that an advisory committee in New South Wales was likely to look at was the exploration of the potential megopolis- that is a very tedious word; I prefer the word conurbation '-represented by the WollongongSydneyNewcastle complex. There was a piece of research which could well have been undertaken by such an advisory committee but which because of the breakdown in CommonwealthState relations did not take place. I hope that with the revival of these advisory committees under proposed new section 35 that sort of research will be possible. 
I note that, as distinct from the recommendations of the Birch report, it is proposed that the  Chairman  of the Advisory Council be appointed by the Minister and not elected. Perhaps the Minister would be good enough to provide some elucidation of the Government's thinking on that matter. Proposed new section 37 concerns a matter that I have taken up perhaps ad nauseam with the Minister. Unfortunately, I have to go through the process again. I find it a little gratuitous that a body of the standing and competence of the Australian Science and Technology Council should be limited by statute to sending one observer to a meeting of the Advisory Council. I am sure that this should not present any difficulty. It may well be overcome. I think it is a little silly to write into legislation a requirement that there be only one observer and then to respond that this is not really a problem because, after all, there are ways of getting round the Act. It makes a mockery of the whole business to specify a number, tongue in cheek, expecting quite simply that there will be some way of avoiding the legislative requirement. 
Proposed new section 41 of the legislation is a very important departure from previous practice. It involves the separation of the executive, the Advisory Council and the State committees. I think that this is one of the great strengths that is being introduced in this legislation. It provides not only for the separation of these bodies but, more to the point, the potential for the involvement of far more people in the process of the development of scientific policy and thought in Australia. Finally, I turn to proposed new section 56 and look, again with some degree of pleasure, at the belief that a consultative council comprising representatives of the Executive and organisations of officers will be established. For too long now, governments of both political persuasions in the Parliament have been paying lip-service to the concept of meaningful consultation. This is one of the first instances of this being given some form of legislative basis. The extent to which this will become a useful model for people involved in work which, after all, is being undertaken on behalf of the whole Australian community may serve us very well in the future. 
There are a few other general matters to which I would refer. One is that I am a little concerned about the extent to which the nature of the CSIRO is becoming a little less scientific and a little more bureaucratic. I am reminded of an article that appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  on 1 September which indicated that some people within the CSIRO feared that the amendments which were being undertaken would result in an increase in bureaucratic control within the CSIRO to the detriment of the scientific control. The Royal Commission when studying the CSIRO made an interesting observation that in 1952 there was one member of the administrative staff for every 2.4 research scientists whereas there is now one member of the administrative staff for every 1.4 research scientists. I think that this must be looked at by the new Executive. In exactly the same way, the Royal Commission was critical of the age distribution of people within the CSIRO. It quite clearly believed that there was need for the injection of new blood throughout the system. 
The concept that the CSIRO will be able to contract out or involve itself in external arrangements- this has already been referred to by  Senator Tate-  is a most important development. It was urged by the Royal Commission. It was also urged very strongly in recommendation 5 of volume lA of the ASTEC report entitled  Science and Technology in Australia 1977-78.  The Council stated that it believed that the CSIRO and other government agencies and departments should actively encourage and promote the formation of research associations. I believe that it is only by getting out into the wider world of private industry and universities that the CSIRO will be able to fulfil its proper obligations. 
One of the things that the Parliament will have to look at in the future is whether there should be established a committee of members of Parliament whose responsibility it will be to take some more active oversight of what is going on in terms of science and technology in Australia. The Parliaments of Holland, the United States of America and the United Kingdom have science forums composed of members of the Parliament. In a non-partisan sense they are able to discuss matters of new development and new technology with scientists. We must get away from the stage where this Parliament and most parliaments tend to be scientifically illiterate and rely very extensively upon a great deal of external advice as distinct from having members with any great in-depth knowledge of the subject. Developments are already afoot, such matters as peer reviews of scientific undertakings and the concept of a 'science court' have been advanced. 
I notice that an editorial in the journal  Science  of September this year discussed these matters. 
They are matters to which the Parliament will have to refer its attention. Colin Rubenstein of the Department of Politics at La Trobe University presented a most interesting paper nearly eight years ago at Monash University on science affairs and Australian politics. A research paper was prepared not so long ago on science policy in Australia, 'Notes on a role for the Federal Parliament'. They are issues which need to be addressed by the Parliament but I do not think they can be addressed properly unless we are prepared to look at some institutional arrangement within the Parliament whereby we will be able to respond, adequately. We have come a long way since  Dr Peter  Pockley was able to broadcast in 1971 that it had 'in fact been Australia's science policy to have no policy'. I think we have come a long way from that time; but I think we still have a considerable distance to travel. 
I wish to make only two other remarks. I believe that the CSIRO potentially is one of the most valuable tools in Australia's foreign relations. The Australian National Paper which was prepared for the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development 1979- one of the matters which is currently on the Notice Paper, I understand- indicates in its summary: 
The example of CSIRO may be relevant to developing countries in that it has enabled the concentration of scarce resources, not only of scientists from many disciplines but also of support services, to tackle national problems. 
I would hope that in the future we will see the CSIRO developing into a useful tool of Australian foreign policy in the sense of being one of the bodies that we can give as an example and whose results can be a practical form of assistance to countries in our region which will be able to benefit directly.  Senator Tate  certainly mentioned in response to the ASTEC report the need for some sort of research development corporation. In the  New Scientist  of 14 September this year John Stansell who is the Director of the National Research Development Corporation of the United Kingdom indicated not only the value of this in scientific terms but also was able to state: 
When foreign industrialists hear that  NRDC-  which will be 30 next year- makes a profit while managing to provide high risk finance to industry for the development of novel technologies, they are impressed. 
I am sure that in current economic circumstances any Australian government which was not impressed by that statement would bear looking at very closely. I come finally to remind the Minister and indeed honourable senators on this side of the chamber that we are committed as a 
Liberal-National Country Party coalition to certain undertakings made in the policy speech in 1975. It was promised that we would establish a National Information Office, investigate the need to establish an independent authority to evaluate and assess new scientific and technological processes, and present an annual science budget and an annual science statement to the Parliament. In the belief that governments should at least make some attempt to adhere to the undertakings that they make, particularly those undertakings of a non-controversial nature, I would perhaps be bold enough to remind the Minister and honourable senators on this side of the chamber that those are undertakings which we have not yet fulfilled. 
The Bill that is now before the Senate, I believe, is an important one, coming as it does as part of a series of Bills which have been before the Commonwealth Parliament since the first Parliament sat, I believe that CSIRO is an Australian institution of which we should all be extremely proud. I believe that this legislation will enhance its position in the Australian community. I plead with the Minister and all honourable senators that we should now move from these piecemeal attentions to worthy institutions towards the development of a national science policy and a national approach to scientific matters which will put these items in their proper perspective and be of general benefit to the Australian community as a whole. 
Perhaps the Minister could make some comment at this stage on the two matters I raised originally. One relates to whether the relationship between the employment of staff by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation under proposed new section 32 (2) and the normal requirements of the Public Service Board is such as to preserve the degree of independence of scientific people working in the Organisation from the general constraints of the Commonwealth Public Service. This was indicated both in the Birch report and in the report of the task force of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. It was also alluded to in the examiners report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Secondly, the Minister might comment on proposed new section 37 regarding the decision to give some legislative limitation to the attendance of observers from the Australian Science and Technology Council at meetings of the Advisory Council by specifying that its representation should be limited to one observer. 
I address a question to the Minister for Education and refer him to my earlier question asked on 13 September concerning the case of a student, Michael Farrell, at the University of New South Wales. I now ask the Minister: Can he inform the Senate of any new information he has regarding  Mr Farrell  's case? In particular, can he inform the Senate whether this student in fact has been prevented from reenrolling at the University of New South Wales; whether that University has taken steps to have  Mr Farrell  declared bankrupt; and whether the attitudes of the University have been modified in any way? 
-by leave- In relation to the Industries Assistance Commission report on products of the printing industry, I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that in recent years some six or seven Federal and State inquiries have been established to investigate the use, abuse and potential dangers of cannabis? Was the most recent of these the report of an inquiry conducted by a committee of this Senate? Have all of the reports from these inquiries endorsed recommendation 60 of the Senate report which called for the Minister for Health to direct that appropriate studies be made of the health implications of cannabis in order to provide data on which an adequate national strategy could be based? If this is so, can the Minister now say why the National Health and Medical Research Council has cut off research funds to Doctors Jackson and Cheshire at the Sydney University School of Pharmacology who are recognised as Australia's leading researchers in this field? Does this come on top of an earlier Federal Government decision to withdraw research funds from  Dr Cheshire's  study on the interaction of cannabis and alcohol? Lest the government's concern to get data will be seen to be quite hypocritical, will the Minister investigate ways of providing funds for  Dr Cheshire's  work to continue, especially as the critical sum in question is less than the purchase price of some luxury motor cars now on the market? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: In light of various criticisms expressed in the Press recently, some of which have been quite ill-informed, is the Minister in a position to indicate the correct situation in respect of Australia's trade with the Association of South East Asian Nations? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that of the 1 1 9 Australians currently in gaol overseas some 77 are in gaol on drug related charges including, for instance, 17 in the United Kingdom, 1 1 in Thailand, six in the United States, five in Belgium, eight in Malaysia, five in Spain, four in Japan, four in Indonesia and three in Italy? Is the Minister satisfied that the information provided to Australian travellers leaving Australia is adequate in regard to the drug laws and drug penalties that apply in countries which they might be likely to visit? 
I rise to add my contribution to this significant debate conscious of the gravity of any senator's undertaking decisions in this place of an essential social or moral nature. At the outset I say that my vote will be cast in favour of  Senator Evan's  amendment, in favour of  Senator Ryan's  motion and in favour of  Senator Rae  's contingent notice of motion. I appreciate that in a debate where party lines have not been drawn the weight and arguments to be advanced by any one senator will be as valid for him as others are for any other member of the Senate. I think therefore that the argument advanced by  Senator Button  that senators should take the opportunity to explain why it is that they have come to the conclusions that they have reached is important. 
Not only is this an issue which involves the individual moral choice of members of this Parliament, but also it is one that involves a choice which is relevant to the nature of the Westminster style of government. The elected representatives in a legislature, when finding themselves in conflict with a decision of the Executive Government, should consider very clearly that the underpinning of this system is that the will of the elected members as a whole should prevail over the will of the Executive of any parliamentary institution. This is not simply an issue about abortion, although one's attitude to the question of abortion ought to be stated. It is a question of who should decide this matter, what commitments the Government has made in this matter and one's own personal stand on the matter. 
Before I turn to those three arguments I would like to comment briefly on one of the remarks made by  Senator Tate.  I found an essential weakness in  Senator Tate  's position. He said that the current ordinance as it stands allows the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly's report to be acted upon. Yet he knows that the 
Government in writing and in its public utterances has stated that it will not act upon the report and that the Government has already rejected action on the other recommendations. The passage of this disallowance motion would in fact force the Government, I believe, particularly in the terms of  Senator Evans's  amendment to face up to those issues again. It cannot be that we hide behind an excuse which says that the Government is allowed to do these other things when it is known full well that the Government has already set its face against them. 
I comment only very briefly on the speech of  Senator Walters.  She said that abortion was not an issue at the time of the last election of the Legislative Assembly. I am not impressed by that argument. That is not the argument that members on this side would have been prepared to advance when our own Government introduced for the first time the conscription of young men to go and fight in Vietnam following an election at which there had been no issue about conscription and from which there was no conceivable way of saying that a mandate was given on one side or the other. I turn to the issue of who should decide. Let me quote the stance taken by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  in another place whose views on the question of abortion are well known. On 27 August in an article in the  Canberra Times  Mr Stephen  Lusher wrote: 
My own view is that 124 Members of whom only two are from the ACT should not legislate on matters affecting the morality of the Territory. 
I accept that as an entirely valid proposition. 1 believe that the views of the people who live in the Capital Territory have been canvassed. I believe that despite what one might say about the precise nature of the wording of the questions posed by Australian Nationwide Opinion Polls Proprietary Limited it has been indicated that in the Capital Territory there is a substantial majority of support for clinics in the way indicated and that also a substantial majority of support was recorded in favour of the question: 'Do you approve or disapprove of easier abortion laws?'. I know from correspondence I have received that the majority of people who have written to me on this issue are not residents of the Capital Territory and are not people whose personal lives and attitudes in the place where they live are directly affected. That has been the case for some time. In his own briefing note the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  indicated that on an earlier occasion 'protests were received from, inter alia, the Right To Life Association'- this dealt with Population 
Services International- 'and many private individuals predominantly non-residents of the Australian Capital Territory'. I believe that the residents of the Territory who voted at the last elections for the Assembly- 38,500 people voted from the Canberra electorate and 41,000 from the Fraser electorate- are entitled to see their elected representatives pass legislation and make decisions affecting their lives because those representatives are the only people who are directly responsible, other than the four members of this Parliament, to the people whose lives are being affected. 
It ought to be recorded that the Legislative Assembly has passed a resolution claiming that it was misled by the Minister for Health. That should not pass without comment. It should be recorded that the Minister for Health sent to the Legislative Assembly a draft Bill the main provision of which was 'that a registered medical practitioner shall not carry out treatment for the termination of pregnancy otherwise than at a hospital operated by the Capital Territory Health Commission'. That is the same wording virtually as the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance. On 30 May the Assembly rejected that Bill and passed again a resolution stating its renewed support for its own recommendations. 
I believe that the fundamental underpinning of the concept of representative democracy is not only that the representatives elected by individuals and citizens should make decisions of this nature and not people who are not elected by the citizens, but also that when the lives of individuals are affected they ought to have recourse against or in support of the people who made those decisions. What recourse do the citizens of the Capital Territory have other than to the four members of this Parliament who are immediately elected by them when it comes to a decision about the representative nature of the other members here? I would no more submit that the citizens of New South Wales should be individually picked out by the government of some other State or Territory and legislated for than I would submit that the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory should be put in that position. 
I come now to the commitment made by  Mr Hunt  in the House of Represenatives, words which must surely be burnt into his brain like the words on the wall at Balthazar's feast. But the equally important part that has not yet been quoted by any honourable senator was when the Minister said this: 
The honourable member for Fremantle - 
That was  Mr Beazley-  reminds us of a debate that took place in another Parliament at another time when quite obviously the former Government was trying to make the Australian Capital Territory and its people the guinea pigs in a social laboratory. 
Just as he rightly rejected making the people of the Capital Territory guinea pigs in a social laboratory, so we should reject making the people of the Capital Territory guinea pigs in a social fossil reflecting the prejudices of the Federal Government at the expense of the views of the elected representatives of the Capital Territory. It may well be that people believe that the elected representatives of the Capital Territory have no part to play in this debate. If that is their view, they are of course perfectly entitled to it. It say that I do not accept that view. I accept that the commitment given by  Mr Hunt,  that 'we as a government have decided' to allow these people to make that decision, ought to be honoured and ought to be required to be honoured by the Senate. 
I accept that decisions that this Federal Government makes on moral matters are entirely distinct and different from decisions that are made about electricity supplies, a water authority or anything else in the Capital Territory. If honourable senators cannot perceive that questions like abortion are fundamentally different from questions of general public health policy or other aspects over which the Commonwealth has control, quite simply we are in another situation in which perceptions are grossly different. 
I have said that I regard it as important to put down a statement of my view as far as the question of abortion per se is concerned. I believe this to be a moral and not a legal question. I believe that if it were a legal question it would be competent simply to allow some learned judge to decide it. I do not accept that point of view, although if one wants to one can rely on  Mr Justice  MacNaghten's ruling in Rex v. Bourne in 1939 in England or  Mr Justice  Menhennitt 's ruling in Regina v. Davidson in 1969 and find that there are distinctions between even those learned gentlemen. One cannot even turn to a united front within religious authority. One can find that the position which has evolved in, for instance, the Roman Catholic Church was first laid down in the canon law of Gratianus in 1140 and modified by papal encyclical after papal encyclical. Whether one quotes Casti Connubi Vigilare con sollecitudine or Humanae vitae, one is able to go on at length. That is one particular view. 
There are Catholic theologians such as Daniel Callaghan, who  Senator Button  has quoted, who hold a different point of view. 
There are divisions within the Protestant churches. There is the 1 965 Church of England committee report very much in favour of the amendment of the British abortion laws which were amended in 1967. There are the public statements of Lord Fisher, the 99th Archbishop of Canterbury, which were very much in favour of the current situation, which is the way people would regard, say, the Menhennitt judgment. There are statements which are implicitly supported by Archbishop Arnott and which are to be found in the royal commission's report. 
One can turn to legal considerations. One can turn to the report of  Mrs Justice  Lane and the British Royal Commission in 1974 that perhaps went further than anybody on this question in advocating that pregnancies could be terminated up until the 24th week. One can turn to the 1 977 New Zealand Royal Commission on precisely the same thing. The only value in indicating the confusion that exists in terms of law and morality is that it brings one to the fundamental premise that each individual is going to have to search his own soul and conscience and come up with his own answer. Matters of morality are not decided by majorities. Matters of conscience are not decided by coercion. That is what has been attempted in this debate. It has been attempted throughout-- 
-Yes, and the honourable senator knows that full well. I am not talking just about the debate that takes place in this chamber. I am talking about the debate as to whether it is a free vote or a whipped vote, or the sort of pressures one should take notice of when making a decision here. I have received as much correspondence as have other honourable senators. I have received, I suppose, 2,000-odd letters. 
-Perhaps the writers thought they had a better chance with me. Some of those letters quite obviously were organised in such a way that one gets the impression that only a limited amount of individual thought had been put into them. Some of them were in detail, some were pleading and some were arguing on both sides of the case. I have letters that are heartrending- letters written by six-year-old or seven-year-old children and sent by their parents. I do not know what sort of parent does that. But they are letters that I think every honourable senator would have to consider. I received one that came from a constituent who lives in the suburb of Paddington and who pleaded with me to do only a couple of things: To view the question as a matter of humanity and to view it with sympathy. She pleaded with me that just as no pro-abortionist should force anybody to have an abortion, what are the rights of the anti-abortionists to force a woman to carry a child against her wishes when there are legal alternatives? They are the sorts of situations that I have considered. I do not believe that a legal vacuum will arise by the disallowance of this ordinance. Nor do I believe in the extreme and, I think, highly unreasonable case drawn by  Senator Tate  that the Government would sit back and do nothing, allow everybody else to carry the can and not respond in some positive way, if this disallowance motion were carried. 
I regret the extent to which  Senator Ryan  has been vilified, the false misleading advertisements that have been placed in Canberra newspapers and the appalling misrepresentation of several of the issues that are involved. I have said- I will say it again in conclusion- that I am going to be held responsible to my electors, to my party and in the long run to some ultimate moral judgment. I can face those only because I believe that what I am doing is right. 
I have three years and I am third on the ticket, so I can tell the Senate that some value judgment has been made here. When I stood before a preselection committee I was asked questions such as this and questions about marihuana. I said that not for the Liberal Party, not for the Liberal-National Country Party Government and not for any man that I know would I make a shipwreck of my conscience on matters such as this. I do not intend to allow this matter to be the first. The confusion that is apparent in both legal and moral terms means quite simply that each of us must make his decision for himself, being as best informed as he can be, and bring into that decision, I believe, as much humanity, sympathy and understanding as it is possible for him to muster. Having done those things, my position is clear and I shall be voting in the manner indicated. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs explain the significance of the Oder-Neisse line to Australian foreign policy? Was the issue of the Oder-Neisse line effectively laid to rest by the successful Ostpolitik of Chancellor Brandt? If the Minister is unable to perceive the relevance of the Oder-Neisse line to Australia, as I am and as I am sure the majority of honourable senators are, is he able to say whether the remarks attributed to  Mr Nicholas  Parkinson, the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs, in the latest issue of the  National Times  are correct, that is, that Australia's geo-strategic interests made the Oder-Neisse line as important to us as to the Europeans and equally as important as South East Asian development. If this is a correct report are we to take these remarks as merely the ramblings of somebody in cloud cuckoo land or as the remarks of somebody who believes that the Australian Foreign Minister is the Marquess of Salisbury rather than the member for Kooyong? Or are we indeed supposed to take these remarks seriously? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of a new index known as the physical quality of life index produced by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which has been used to measure quality of life based upon the factors of infant mortality, life expectancy and literacy? As a result of this index Australia is found to rank behind Japan and only just ahead of Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore and Sri Lanka in our region. If this is a fact, does the Government feel that this indicates that its policies must pay greater attention to improving these quality of life indicators in addition to expressing its concern about more traditional economic factors? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. He will be aware that the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships has been a public document for some length of time and that it is in fact a major, challenging and controversial document. Equally he will be aware that it has not been subject to detailed parliamentary analysis. Will he undertake to make time available early in the next session for this Senate to discuss the report in some detail? 
I speak in this first reading debate to make some remarks about the newest of Australia's mineral discoveries, that is, diamonds. I think this is probably the first occasion on which the Parliament has had a chance to turn its mind to this new development. Everybody would know that diamonds have had a fascination for people since the days when Alexander the Great first saw them in India. Not many of them remain from antiquity. Despite the fact that their name derives from a Greek word 'adamas' meaning invincible, one suspects that this is because the very distinguished Roman Pliny the Elder told people that the way to tell whether a stone was a diamond was to put it on an anvil and hit it with a hammer. So, very few diamonds remain from antiquity. 
Given the limited time available to me today it is not my purpose to make remarks about the famous stones that undoubtedly have preoccupied the historians and people who like to speculate about them. As I shall be talking about diamond weights and sizes in Australia, I should perhaps mention that the largest diamond yet discovered was the Cullinan Diamond which when found was some 3,126 carats. That is, it weighed 1  V&gt;  lb. Other notable diamonds of great weight and value are: The Jonker, the KohiNoor, the Daryn-i-Noor, the Orloff, the Regent and the Braganza diamonds. They all have fascinating histories. As honourable senators know, diamonds do not have to have the colourless appearance that is seen in the traditional diamond. Diamonds may be blue such as the Hope Diamond, amber such as the Earth Star, pink such as the Conde, straw such as the Tiffany, or, indeed, they may be yellow or black. 
In Australia diamonds have been discovered in two particular types of deposits. One type is alluvial and is found mainly in dried up river beds. Some very large diamonds have been found in such areas elsewhere in the world. Such a diamond weighing more than 750 carats was found in Sierra Leone. Diamonds are formed in geological formations in the earth later known as kimberlite pipes at depths of more than 100 kilometres where temperatures are in excess of 800 degrees centigrade and the pressure is more than 35 Kilobars- that is, more than half a million pounds per square inch. The diamonds are erupted to the surface in these geological formations called kimberlite pipes. Not all of these pipes are diamondiferous. In fact, of the thousand or so known pipes in the world only about one per cent bears diamonds. Even in South Africa only three per cent or four per cent of the pipes bears diamonds and all of South Africa's diamonds are derived from six principal pipes. 
It is not surprising that similar areas have now been identified in Western Australia. In fact the Kimberley region in Australia bears its name because the early prospectors in that area recognised the similarity to the Kimberley area of South Africa where diamonds had been known to be found for some time. Between the Fitzroy and Lennard River area in Western Australia there are lamproite pipes, which are akin to kimberlite pipes, which have been identified for a considerable time. As far back as 1 969 diamond recoveries were made in that area. Emeritus Professor Rex Tregilas, Professor of Geology at the University of Western Australia, has maintained for well over 40 years that diamonds are likely to be found in Western Australia. In 1969 he had a hand in writing a prospectus for Stellar Mining 
NL, the first diamond mining operation of its kind. 
Diamonds may be not only gem diamonds, but also industrial diamonds. The production of these varies from scene to scene. In countries such as Zaire, 90 per cent of all diamonds found are of industrial quality whereas in South West Africa 95 per cent is of gem quality. There have been notable experiments to produce diamonds artificially and despite the claims of people such as Hannay in Glasgow and Moissan in France in the 1880s and 1890s it really was not until after Bridgman at Harvard had pioneered the physics of high pressure technology that the General Electric company in 1955 first produced small industrial diamonds and in 1970 the first artificial gem diamond. Diamonds came only from India until 1725 when they were found in Brazil. The South African diamond industry did not start until 1866-67. South Africa now accounts for 80 per cent of world diamond production. The Vilyuysk River area of the Soviet Union now produces about 16 per cent of the world total. Discoveries there did not occur until 1955. Diamonds are now found all over the world. There is a notable mine in Murfreesboro in Arkansas and mines in Zaire, Ghana, Namibia, Guyana, Venezuela, Sierra Leone and many other places. 
It is generally not known that in the period from about 1897 to 1904, coinciding with the period of the Boer War, Australia was already a major producer of diamonds. Substantial numbers of diamonds were found in the Copeton area near Inverell, at Ballina, Bingara, Uralla, Bathurst, in the Lachlan River area, Mudgee and Turon in New South Wales and continued to be found and prospected for until 1910. However, with the re-emergence of South African diamonds after 1910, production of Australian diamonds by 1920 had all but finished. In an interesting book by Ion Idriess,  The DiamondStone of Destiny,  it is stated that prospectors in Australia thought that these things that they were finding in the river beds were pieces of quartz or glass or whatever. They used them for scratching their initials on their iron picks and shovels and then gave them to their children to play with, and they disappeared thereafter. 
In the 1960s, however, in New South Wales the Audimco company started serious prospecting in the Copeton and Inverell areas partly in association with Mount Isa Mines Ltd and partly in association with the Belgian diamond house Sibeka and with Hambros Bank. They are still producing. A mining industry review in about 1976 indicated that Australia imported 98,600 carats of diamonds valued in excess of $ 15m, a large number of which- some $4.6m worthwere re-exported. These came to Australia mainly from Israel, Belgium, Luxembourg, South Africa and India. 
During the course of the last year or so, diamond prices have been forced up by a number of devices. There has been a genuine shortage of diamonds caused by major flooding in the Kimberley area. In 1976 world production of diamonds was 10.S million carats. In 1977 it had risen to only 10.8 million carats. Even by 1980, the best expectation is an increase to 14.8 million carats. 
Another factor forcing up diamond prices has been that De Beers, the major South African company, operating in a unique situation through the Central Selling Organisation which is an arm of its own company, Diamond Purchasing and Trading Corporation, and in fact controls something like 85 per cent of all world diamond sales. Even the Soviet Union sells through the Central Selling Organisation. In the last year or so, De Beers has deliberately sought to drive up prices- it imposed a 34!6 per cent increase in 1977 and a 40 per cent increase in rough diamond prices this year- while at the same time to reduce the number of diamonds available for sale. For instance in its December 1977 sightings it cut supplies back by about 50 per cent. 
It is also true that some countries are hoarding diamonds, probably as a hedge against international inflation- for instance, Israel. Tel Aviv is one of the four major diamond centres of the world. In 1974 Israel imported 5,568 rough carats and re-exported 2,467 carats but in 1977 Israel imported 11,213 carats but re-exported only 3,356 carats. So, despite the fact that new mines are being opened up at Letseng la Terai, at Lelthakane, at Finsch and at Orapa, and old mines are being re-opened at places like Kaingnaas, Langhoote and Jwaneng, it is not expected that large numbers of diamonds will be available to fit the world boom that is going on at the moment. A carat- that is, 200 milligrams- well polished and of top quality, in 1977 fetched about $7,000. By the end of that year it fetched about $10,000 and at present it would fetch about $18,000. Elizabeth Taylor's 69.42 carat diamond, bought for $lm, is now on the market for $4m and, as a real indication of free enterprise, it also costs $2,500 to inspect it even if a person is a prospective buyer. At a recent Manhattan sale, for instance, a 136 carat stone went for $7m. 
I want to turn precisely to what has been going on in the Kimberley area and to the consortium that is working there now, commonly known as the Ashton consortium. In November 1975 Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited first evidenced some interest in buying into a consortium and indicated a preparedness to spend something like $1.5m to buy a 30 per cent share. In the long run CRA in fact ended up spending a little more than that and bought a 35 per cent share of a consortium which was then called the Kalumburu consortium. It consisted of Tanganyika Holdings Limited, which was the manager and was a subsidiary of the British Tanganyika Concession; A.O. (Australia) Proprietary Limited, which was owned by London Tin, 7 1 per cent of which is owned by the Malaysian Government and 29 per cent by De Beers; Sibeka, the Belgian bankers; Jennings Mining, an off-shoot of the A.V. Jennings organisation; and a local company by the name of Northern Mining Corporation N.L. In February 1976 CRA acquired 35 per cent of this consortium, 1 5 per cent went to the other four major holders and 5 per cent to the Northern Mining Corporation. 
I will not take the Senate through the ups and downs of the rearrangements of that consortium. I simply say that both Tanganyika and Sibeka sold out a substantial part of their holdings and Jennings- I am sure to its lasting regret- sold out all of its holdings. So the new consortium which emerged, known as the Ashton consortium, consisted initially of 52.6 per cent controlled by CRA, 27 per cent controlled by A.O (Australia), 8.4 per cent by Tanganyika Holdings, 7 per cent by Sibeka and 5 per cent by Northern Mining. What has been found in the area? I will not seek to take the Senate in detail through the stages at which diamond finds were made, but rather will seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  extracts from five of the CRA reports to the stock exchange, which detail progressively the number of diamond finds, the quality of the finds and CRA's comments upon them.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave for that incorporation. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

ASHTON JOINT VENTURE INTERIM PROGRESS REPORT 
On 6 September, 1978 the company released the following report: 
The Ashton Joint Venture has an established quarterly reporting procedure. However this report has been prepared by the Manager earlier than planned at the request of two Joint Venturers which have made or announced plans to make share offers. It is intended to continue the quarterly reporting procedure in the future and the next report will cover the quarter ending 30 September, 1978. 
Drilling Program: 
The Ashton Joint Venture report of 13 July gave a progress report on the program being conducted to define the number and surface extent of Kimberlite pipes discovered in 1977 in the southern pan of the Kimberley Region. The program of shallow rotary drilling and geological mapping has now been completed. This work has confirmed 26 pipes containing Kimberlitic material with a total surface area of approximately 599 hectares. An extensive bulk sampling program is now required to disclose which, if any, of these Kimberlitic intrusions may contain potentially economic concentrations of diamonds. 
Sampling Program: 
The July report indicated that the commissioning of a processing plant would commence treatment of surface samples in August. Start up operations commenced as planned on 1 August and operating rates were gradually increased during the month. 
The first phase of the testing program involves taking samples of approximately 100 cubic metres from the surface of each hectare of those pipes judged to be of potentially economic size. By 2 September approximately 1,918 cubic metres of material had been tested from near surface trenches. About 173 carats of diamonds were recovered from these samples. The extent to which diamonds of gem quality may be included is not known. The largest stone recovered to date weighs approximately 3.3 carats. 
It is emphasised that this first phase testing can only serve to define barren or potentially economic pipes or areas within pipes as a basis for larger scale bulk testing in the event of significant concentrations of diamonds being recovered. The early results described above are taken from limited quantities of near surface material and should not be construed as necessarily representative of yield or grade potential of the Kimberlitic occurrences as a whole. Sampling of near surface material can be unreliable because of dilution or enrichment of this zone. Reliable results can only be determined by deeper and larger scale tests than are currently scheduled'. 
OWNERSHIP 
The Ashton Joint Venture is beneficially owned in the fol  lowing proportions: 

<graphic href="079232197811174_23_2.jpg"></graphic>

A CRA subsidiary is manager of the project. 
IDENTIFICATION OF PIPES 
The interim progress report on 6 September reported that the current program of shallow rotary driling and geological mapping had been completed. This work confirmed 26 pipes containing kimberlitic material with an overall surface area of approximately 599 hectares. Geological investigations aimed at the discovery of additional kimberlitic intrusions are continuing. 
SAMPLING PROGRAM 
The interim progress report stated that sampling operations commenced as planned on I August and that operating rates were gradually increased during the month. The early part of the testing program was aimed primarily at commissioning the plant and establishing suitable operating practices. During commissioning samples were treated mainly from one pipe. 
As sampling operations stabilised the testing program was put on a scout sampling basis whereby only a few samples are processed from each of a number of pipes. The purpose of this scout sampling, which is continuing, is to develop a ranking of pipes. The ranking will determine the sequence in which material from pipes will be tested on a closer pattern with surface samples taken nominally at 100 cubic metres per hectare. 
During August and September 250.175 carats of diamonds were recovered from 47 samples containing approximately 4,888 cubic metres. Recoveries from each trench varied widely and some samples treated were barren. The largest stone recovered to date weighs approximately 5.7 carats. 
Ashton Joint Venture: The participants in the Ashton Joint Venture ('Joint Venturers') and their respective beneficial interests are: 

<graphic href="079232197811174_23_3.jpg"></graphic>

CRA Explorations Pty Ltd is manager of the project. 1977 Results: During 1977 the Diamond Exploration was extended over greater areas of the Kimberley Region resulting in the discovery of many additional prospects containing Kimberlite-like material. These range in size from small dyke-like bodies to broad features with a maximum area of 50 hectares. Some of these prospects are probably pipes and preliminary tests indicate some to be diamond bearing. However, these tests were of small quantities of material insufficient in size to justify any estimates of diamond content or quality. It is not possible to judge from these results whether diamonds will be found in commercial quantities. 1 978 Program: Some of the prospects are covered by overburden and during 1978 it is planned to initially conduct a drilling program to confirm the extent of the prospects and to define the nature and range of Kimberlite-like material present. Having defined the surface extent of the major prospects, the only way in which an indication of diamond quality and quantity can be obtained is by extensive bulk sampling. This requires the establishment of a processing plant to treat large samples of material taken from each prospect. 
A processing plant is being constructed and will be established in the Kimberleys around mid year. It will comprise a pre-processing plant to crush, screen and scrub the Kimberlite-like materials, a heavy media separation plant to float off unwanted material and a sorting area to extract any diamonds from the concentrated heavy minerals. It is also planned to continue exploration for additional prospects during 1978. The estimated level of expenditure for exploration and bulk sampling during 1 978 is around $6m. 13 July 1978: 
Ashton Joint Venture progress for quarter ended 30 June, 1978: 
As explained in the first quarterly report, regional exploration located three separate areas with Kimberlitic instrusions in the Northern, Eastern, and Southern parts of the Kimberley Region. The Kimberlitic intrusions range in size from narrow dyke-like bodies to large circular structures, which, on the evidence of surface examination, are believed to be pipes. Preliminary sampling carried out in late 1977 has shown some of these bodies to be diamond bearing and some are expected to be barren. However, because of the inherently low concentration of diamonds in kimberlite the volume of sample material so far processed from the bodies found to contain diamonds is insufficient to enable any forecasts of grades or diamond value to be made at this stage. Consequently, one of these groups of kimberlite has now been selected for further testing: Meanwhile exploration activity is continuing in other parts of the Kimberleys. 
Diamonds 
In the first six months of 1 978 expenditure on diamond exploration and evaluation by the participants in the Ashton joint Venture (in which wholly owned CRA subsidiaries have a 52.6 per cent interest) was $2m bringing the total expenditure of the Ashton Joint Venture to 30 June, 1 978 on exploration for diamonds in the Kimberley region of Western Australia to $6m- $5m on exploration and $ 1 m towards building a bulk sampling plant. 
Shallow exploration drilling to 30 June confirmed the presence of 12 pipes with an aggregate total surface area of at least 280 hectares in the cluster located about 130 kilometres east of Derby. This work is continuing to define additional prospects. Preliminary sampling tests at the end of 1 977 had shown at least some of these bodies to contain diamonds but the samples collected were too small to allow any assessment of diamond content or quality. 
Consequently a bulk sampling plant, designed to process about 60 tonnes per hour of kimberlite has been erected on the site. The plant comprises crushing, scrubbing, heavy media separation and concentrate processing sections. The plant will initially treat samples of approximately 100 cubic metres each spaced at 100 to 200 metre intervals over the pipes that have been shown to be of possible economic dimensions. The planned program of 100 cubic metre samples is a preliminary phase only. It is emphasised that larger samples will be needed before potentially economic deposits can be properly assessed. 
-However, the situation that applies at the moment is this: In a report in the  Canberra Times  of 7 November the venture indicated that to date it had found 3,285 diamonds in its testing. One pipe, being one pipe that had been particularly examined, had produced a total of 966 diamonds. Two diamonds have been mentioned in a particular comment to the stock exchange, one diamond at 5.7 carats and one at 4.9 carats. In other words, they are very large and very expensive stones. The area in which CRA and the Ashton consortium are prospecting contains, as I have said, some 26 identifiable diamond pipes, which cover an area which at this stage appears to be about 1 14 hectares. That is an extraordinarily large area because areas which are normally covered by these pipes are extremely small. For instance, in the Transvaal the area covers only 34 hectares and the  Orapa  mine which is in Botswana and is the largest diamond-producing mine in the world, only 100 hectares. So here is an area in the Kimberleys, which is considerably larger, in terms of its surface area for the production of diamonds, than the largest operating diamond mines in the world. As I said, there are also 26 pipes there, only half of which so far have been tested. Yet from that half that have been tested already more than 3,000 stones have been produced. 
It is not surprising that the stock market has reacted to this in a particular fashion. In fact, in the past year or so newspaper articles on this have been quite numerous. One of my purposes in rising today is to say that not only have the articles been numerous, but I believe they also have been fuelling a situation in which investors ought to be taking a slightly more jaundiced view about where they are investing their money. For instance, on 13 June 1978 the  Australian Financial Review  carried an article headed 'The Scramble for Diamonds in WA with a subheading of 'Son of Poseidon'. I query that. It is certainly true that articles headed 'An Outbreak of Diamond Fever' and 'Diamonds au go-go' and all the rest are bringing about popular speculation on an area that needs somewhat more careful consideration. On 5 September this year the London  Financial Times  made some remarks about CRA and its exploration. It quoted remarks made by  Sir Roderick  Carnegie in what I think was a very important statement, indicating that the company itself is not attempting to fuel too many of these speculative ventures. When asked by the  Financial Times  about how the diamond search was going, he replied: 
Ask me after another five years and $ 1 5m. 
I think that attention ought to be paid to that. The article in the London  Financial Times  went on to state: 
Stockbrokers are reminded of the past. It seemed inconceivable that people who had been so shaken by the Poseidon boom-and-bust seven years ago would, so soon afterwards, once again be swept to a renewed enthusiasm. Only the terminology, of course, has changed. The jargon now is of diamoniferous kimberlites, of indicator mineralsmeaning pyrope garnite and pierotlmenite- that turn an ordinary volcanic plug into a kimberlite with the potential for carrying diamonds. 
The article continued: 
The basic pattern is nothing new: a commodity is found in a remote area. The more exotic the commodity, the more esoteric its technology, and the more remote from civilisation the pegging, the greater the area of uncertainty, and the greater the element of speculation. 
I want to raise two matters which are particularly related to the current situation. One is that I believe that the field in the Kimberleys, by all reliable indications, could be a discovery of enormous value and enormous potential. But I  believe that it is not something that people should regard as a 'get rich quick' overnight investment. It is not like finding that one has $1,000 on Arwon. People who are prepared to study the matter and to take it seriously should not attempt to drag other people into making a large amount of speculative investment. 
However, it is not surprising that some months ago it was announced that there would be an Ashton float and that part of the holdings of A.O. (Australia) were to be put on the market. When Ashton was floated, the 28 million ordinary shares at 50c a share, were fully subscribed before the matter got onto the exchange on 9 November. The 50c shares went up straight away to 86c and, after the day's trading, something like 10 per cent of the shares of the company had changed hands. Apart from the distinguished individuals who are investors in this, we find that the AMP Society has got 275,000 shares; Burns Philp Securities, 100,000; Chamber of Manufacturers Insurance, 100,000; Gas and Fuel Corporation Super Fund, 75,000; NRMA Funds Management, 50,000; Victorian State Electricity Commission, 50,000; Perpetual Executors and Trustees, 75,000; Prudential Assurance, 100,000; CML Assurance 320,000; and the AIDC, 50,000. 
-Yes. The list contains many distinguished names including Dame Mabel Coles, Lady Helen Cutler, Lady Parbo,  Sir Ian  McLennan,  Sir James  Vernon,  Sir Donald  Hibberd,  Sir Kenneth  Humphreys,  Sir Ian  Potter,  Mr Allan  Coates,  Mr Eric  Avery,  Mr George  MacKay and  Mr Ray  Eabry and, certainly, as  Senator Button  said, the wives of some fairly distinguished people, including the wife of the Governor of New South Wales. 
Labor senators have not been noted in the past for their enthusiasm to invest in Australia other than in words. The second point that I want to raise is that there is a potential for some considerable conflict between the diamond explorers in the Kimberleys and the rights of the Aboriginal people in that area. A large part of this area potentially falls within the land traditionally occupied by the Oombulgurri people. The Western Australian Government has, I think, been a little insensitive in indicating the extent to which it was prepared to change its Mining Act so that control over entry into Aboriginal areas was removed from the control of the Commissioner for Aboriginal Affairs and put in the hands of the Minister. There are a large number of companies, including Dampier which is an offshoot of BHP and Stockdale which is an offshoot of De Beers, which have been looking to move into these areas against the wishes of the traditional Aboriginal people. 
It may well be that one of the responsibilities of this Federal Parliament will be to keep an eye on the extent to which local State legislation will act to the prejudice of local Aboriginal people. There are already some 5 10 objections to mining activities and permits lodged by people from the Nookenbah station and the Aboriginal pastoral property associated with that. Some of the companies, CRA, Carr Boyd, Amax, Scamander and Metals Exploration which are undertaking activities to which the Aboriginal people have some objection, I believe need to be looked at closely. I believe, as I said, that the Federal Parliament cannot be insensitive to the fact that the Aboriginal people in that area have certain rights which must be protected. They ought to be protected, in the first instance, by the Western Australian State Government but failing that, they may well have to be protected by somebody else. 
In the last couple of weeks there has been some criticism, I think somewhat unjustified, of the way in which CRA has made its reports to the exchange. There has been some criticism that CRA has not provided the amount of information in its reports that was required by people in order to make a soundly based investment. CRA and the Ashton consortium has responded, I believe, by entering into negotiations with the exchange and altering the way in which it intends to make its reports in future. For instance, some of the unanswered questions which have now been answered were: How many pipes have been tested? We know in fact that half of the 26 pipes have been tested. Did any of the pipes fail to yield diamonds? We do not know that. What was the result of the testing from each pipe? Honourable senators will see in the  Bulletin  this week that the specific details of the testing of pipe A of the consortium's holdings are reported in some detail. I think this is a significant advance. The type of material from which the stones have been found and the quality of the 5.7 carat stone were reported at an earlier stage. 
The amount of material that the consortium has gone through in looking for its diamonds has, I think, again been particularly encouraging. We have a situation in which the rate of recovery that is reported is already fairly high by world standards. In September this year, it was reported that 1 73 carats had been found in 1 ,9 1 8 cubic metres- that is 4,000 tonnes or 0.0 1 carats per tonne. The international figures make an interesting comparison. For instance, the Let.seng mine, which is a very profitable mine, has carats per tonne of 0.03. One of the major De Beers mines has 0.18 carats per tonne. The Orapa mine, which I have already mentioned, has 0.67; the Finsch has 0.66; and Lelthakane has 0.32. Even by world standards, we find a situation that applies in the Kimberleys at the moment to be this: There are undoubtedly major finds; they cover an enormous area which is potentially as large as any area currently being investigated; the quality of stone and the numbers of stones appear to be very encouraging; there is considerable amount of public investment in that; and the rate of recovery is reasonably high by world standards. 
As I said, my desire to bring this matter before the Senate is simply to reinforce those two points. Here is something that I believe is a significant, useful and valuable investment in Australia. It is the first occasion on which there has been a public float in the mining and extractive sector since Weeks Petroleum went on the market in 1972. 1 believe that it is exciting and encouraging, but I believe that small investors should not regard this as a get-rich quick scheme or be seduced by a lot of comment- whether it be by the cover of the  Bulletin,  the cover story in  Newsweek  or speculation in the Sunday papers- into rushing off and investing small amounts of money in the hope that they will get rich quick overnight because I do not believe they will. This is a long-term investment for those seriously interested in a major new industry. The Senate should be aware that we may well be faced with a conflict between the rights of the traditional Aboriginal people in the area, the mining companies and the Western Australian Government. That may be a matter that will come before the Senate at some time in the future. With those remarks I hope that the Senate will be able to exercise its continuing oversight in an area of some considerable importance, potential excitement, and I believe an area of great profit and benefit to Australia in the future. 
I quoted from a report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 10 November 1978. I am prepared to table it or make it available, whatever the honourable senator requires. It is a newspaper cutting and I seek leave to table it. 
Leave granted. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General as the Minister responsible for the Racial Discrimination Act. As a Minister in touch with today's trends he will no doubt be familiar with the music of David Bowie, which is loud, if nothing else. I ask him whether he has seen a report in this morning's Press that David Bowie may be prosecuted under Queensland's Noise Abatement Act and whether he has seen a comment by that well known civil libertarian and gentleman,  Mr Russ  Hinze, the Minister for Local Government in Queensland, who said: The fact that he is a Pommie won't help him'. Does the Attorney-General have any concern that the racial prejudices of  Mr Hinze  and his Government now appear to be expanding to cover certain migrant groups as well as the indigenous inhabitants of the State of Queensland? 
I rise to comment briefly on this legislation and to take a little further some of the comments that I made at an earlier stage in this place about Qantas Airways Ltd and the nature of its advertising, particularly as it relates to the Boeing 747 jets for the purchase of which this Bill is providing a loan guarantee. I must take slight issue with a remark of  Senator Gietzelt  's when he commented on the excellent work which Qantas has done on behalf of the Australian people and the Australian Government. There is one area to which I shall advert tonight in which I think Qantas is doing a positive disservice to the Australian Government and the Australian people. It involves the question of overseas advertising, particularly in Great Britain. Qantas had this to say in its 1976-77 annual report: 
Qantas Airways Ltd, which has completed 57 years of operation, is wholly-owned by the Commonwealth of Australia. Its function is to develop and operate international air services as the Australian flag carrier. 
Of course, that is perfectly correct. That statement reveals two things. Firstly, it reveals that Qantas is wholly owned by the people of Australia. Secondly, it reveals that the airline has a responsibility to operate as the Australian flag carrier in a particular fashion. At some earlier stage I drew attention to the nature of advertisements that were being placed in Great Britain as part of Qantas 's promotional campaign. I referred to the advertisement featuring a wellknown English character actor dressed up as a convict. He was supposed to be a steward on a Qantas aeroplane. The advertisement bore the caption: 'You can tell a Qantas steward by his uniform'. I also drew attention to an advertisement which showed a flock of sheep being loaded into a Qantas aeroplane and one which showed a Boeing 747 aircraft with Foster's cans as their fuselage. Another advertisement featured that inimitable Australian, Bruce the Flying Doctor. I had occasion to draw attention to the fact that I think Qantas is indulging in an advertising campaign in Great Britain which is positively demeaning, positively degrading and certainly doing considerable disservice to Australia's image in Great Britain and Europe. I also had occasion to discuss this matter in a television program with  Mr Harry  M. Miller, who appeared that time in his capacity as a member of the Qantas board of directors. I quote from a report of this television interview that appeared in the  Sunday Telegraph  in September, which said, inter alia, after  Mr Miller  and I had both put our points of view: 
The studio audience did not agree. 
When asked by Mike Walsh if anyone agreed with  Mr Miller  that the ads were funny, they all said no. 
And a Qantas steward and hostess in the audience said British reaction to the advertisements was derogatory. 
They're laughing at us- not tongue-in-cheek- but down their noses, ' the steward said. 
I had hoped that some attention would be given to this matter and some changes in attitude would occur, but that has not been the case. In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 2 1 October an advertisement appeared once again showing the Boeing 747 aircraft to be purchased on the basis of the guarantee of $80m that clause 3 of this Bill is now providing. The text in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  under a little picture of the aircraft with the beer can fuselage, says: 
It is part of a Sim campaign in the British Press. The text says there you are, 'at the mercy of Australia's own airline. Lager all the way, and then more lager, you're probably thinking. ' The advertisement goes on to assure travellers that because alcohol causes dehydration, Qantas also serves orange juice, tea, coffee and soft drinks. 
The style of advertisement to which I have made reference continues. Some interesting figures are contained in the 1977-78 annual report of the Australian Tourist Commission, which was tabled in the Parliament only this week. They give the reasons why people in Great Britain, to whom this advertisement is directed, travel to Australia. I want to refer to the figures for a few moments. The report indicates that of the total number of people from Great Britain who are visiting Australia for any reason- some 82,000 people in 1977-44,000 people are visiting relatives, 13,000 are on holidays, 12,000 are on business, 5,000 are in transit, 400 are attending conventions and 8,000 are doing so for other reasons. In other words more than half of the people coming to Australia are coming here to visit relatives. Previous agencies and advisers to Qantas undertook a survey in May 1977 of what was likely to impress potential British travellers. A market research report on qualitative research on proposed Qantas advertising reads: 
It should be borne in mind that it is the women especially who take the initiative in keeping in touch with the family and in planning the trip. This means that the advertising should not antagonise women- for example it should avoid anything which might reinforce Australia's reputation as a beer-swilling, male-orientated society. 
Very often (especially where women are concerned) neither the saving nor the cheapness (of fare) idea comes across. The word 'beer' inhibits communication because it conjures up a negative in the image of Australia, namely they are all ' boozers '. Not only does this not appeal to women but the comparison is often taken to mean 'you '11 have a great boozy time in Australia' (and this in any case is not what the VFR market - 
That is, the visiting friends and relatives market- is about). The comparison is the opposite of enlightening- it detracts attention which results in lack of communication. 
Qantas continues to persist in this style of advertising. As  Senator Gietzelt  has said, Qantas has a very commendable and outstanding record in terms of air safety. The last set of figures I saw published on airline safety listed some 68 airlines. The 10 airlines with the best safety record were: TAP, which is a Portuguese airline; Qantas Airways Ltd; Delta Air Lines; American Airlines; SAS; Trans-Australia Airlines; Japan Airlines; Continental Airlines; United States Airlines, and Ansett Airlines of Australia. Since that date, TAP has had a major international loss. So one would gather that Qantas quite clearly has established the reputation of being the safest airline in the world. Yet the advertising for Qantas in Great Britain does not concentrate upon that. It concentrates upon the most offensive and obnoxious type of advertising that could possibly be imagined. 
Qantas would not dare do this at home. The  Australian Financial Review of  25 October 1978 carried an article about the airline's new Australian advertising campaign. The article is headed: 'Qantas rejects the "ockers" and recaptures the knockers'. It is a story about the expenditure of Sim plus on pumping up the national pride of Australians in a soft cell holiday campaign, totally rejecting its UK style of 'ocker' advertising. The article goes on to indicate the way in which Evonne Cawley and a number of other prominent Australians, including such people in the entertainment business as Peter Allen and Colleen McCullough, are becoming involved in a campaign to provide a soft sell for Qantas in Australia, encouraging Australians to travel more with their own airline. Despite this, there is some decision to persist with a British style of advertising campaign which I believe is entirely inappropriate. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  was good enough to respond to my criticism in October about Qantas advertisements. In the text of his letter he indicated that Qantas operates as a public company as free as possible from government intervention. He said that he does not attempt to influence the airline in its commercial decisions, so he would not attempt to influence the airline in its decisions about its advertising material, which is essentially a matter of the policy for the board of directors. I accept that. But Qantas itself has made the point that its responsibility is to act as the Australian flag carrier and to maintain certain standards. We know that Qantas receives an enormous amount of legal and financial protection from the Government. The  Australian Financial Review  of 12 October, under the heading  'Sir Lenox  Qantastic victory' and dealing with the new airline policies announced by the Minister for Transport, indicates the position quite clearly. The editorial concludes: 
The new policy is a triumph for  Sir Lenox  Hewitt and his brand of protectionism for Qantas. In the long run it may be at the expense of Australian international air travellers. 
One could raise a number of matters in this regard when speaking about Qantas. I simply want to put on record once again the assertion that the extent to which Qantas, in terms of the way in which it conducts its advertising campaigns in the UK, does no good to the - 
Anybody who can listen to  Senator Georges  for a prolonged period has a well-developed sense of humour. The way in which Qantas 's advertising is conducted in the United Kingdom is not a humorous matter; it is a matter of a public company denigrating the Australian national airline. I think it makes no contribution to promoting increased tourist traffic from the United Kingdom to Australia, through the visiting friends and relatives section of the travel market, which is what Qantas is supposed to be commercially in operation to do. 
-I present the following petition from 898 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
We as citizens of the Commonwealth, employed in the small business sector of the oil industry, earnestly request our government to implement, as quickly as possible, the package of measures as announced by the government on 31 October 1978, designed to ensure that many thousands of Australia's small businessmen and their employees be retained in the retail oil industry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Has the attention of the Government been drawn in the last few days to a number of reports that foreign governments and airlines are becoming increasingly hostile towards Australia's international civil aviation policies? Specifically, have KLM Royal Dutch Airlines and the UTA and JAT Airlines expressed concern about new conditions which the Government is attempting to impose upon future services and have their respective governments expressed dissatisfaction with Australian offers? 
Have doubts about aspects of our policy been expressed by the Alitalia Airline and the Italian Government, as reported in the  Financial Review  of 20 November? Finally, have strong criticisms of Australia's policies been voiced recently in a paper which was prepared by the Association of South East Asian Nations for consideration by their heads of government and endorsed by the ASEAN economic Ministers in June? 
I will delay the Senate for only two minutes. I thought that on behalf of my colleagues who have served their first session in their first Parliament it would be appropriate to extend my personal thanks to you,  Mr President,  to the  Clerk  and his officers, to the people who work in the Tables Office, to the extremely beautiful ladies who work in the Records Office and to the people in the Parliamentary Library and those people who work in other parts of the building for their very considerable support and assistance to those honourable senators who are still trying to find their way in the parliamentary system during their first term. I thank them for the extent to which they have made this first session so much easier and more comprehensible than otherwise it would have been. I extend my thanks to colleagues on both sides of the chamber, including those new colleagues I met for the first dme. I extend my thanks to senior members of my Party under whom I have served on various committees. I thank in particular Senators Missen and Martin who, as chairmen of committees, have been particularly helpful in explaining what goes on around the Parliament I thank the Whips for the way in which they have helped us to integrate into the parliamentary system. To Senators Carrick and Guilfoyle who have been good enough to pass on to me a number of matters in order to ensure that my weekends were not spent in idleness, perhaps I could slightly misquote Gilbert and Sullivan to sum up the situation: 
Oh philosophers may sing Of the troubles of a  Senator Yet  the duties are delightful and the privileges great. But the privilege and pleasure That we treasure beyond measure Is to run a little errand for the Ministers of State. 
I take this opportunity to conclude on a very personal note, and that is to thank my fiancee, Francesca, who has really done more than any individual to sustain me through the process of getting used to a political career. She is still of the mind that we get married during the course of the recess. So if honourable senators determine when I return after the recess that I am a quieter and more sober member of this chamber, they will understand why. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of the scale and nature of criticisms made about Australia's current international air fare policies by members of the Association of South East Asian Nations? Has the Minister seen consistent criticisms by the Foreign Minister of Singapore about the way in which the Australian Government and Qantas Airways Ltd have behaved in this matter? Is it true, as is claimed in the cover story of the respected magazine  Asia Week of  16 February this year, that Singapore could lose some 250,000 tourists and $US43m annually due to these new arrangements? Does the Australian Government view with any concern the fact that its attitude in this matter is severely prejudicing our good relations with our South East Asian neighbours at a time of great crisis in the region and all for what may well turn out to be quite illusory gains for the vast majority of potential Australian travellers? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate calls upon the Government to implement, in full, and at an early date, the recommendations contained in  Whales and Whaling,  the report of the independent inquiry conducted by the Honourable  Sir Sydney  Frost, presented to the Prime Minister on 1 December 1978. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Has the Government given any consideration to the report of the Australian Science and Technology Council on the Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics? Specifically, has the Government made any decision on the central recommendation of ASTEC that the BMR be reorganised as a statutory authority responsible to the Minister for National Development? If no decisions have yet been made on these ASTEC recommendations, when is it expected that such decisions will be made and when will they be reported to the Parliament? 
My remarks will be confined to comments on the Postal Services Amendment Bill. The amending Bill makes changes to the Postal Services Act 1975 by changing the definition of prescribed external Territory ' in section 3 of that principal Act so as to include the Territory of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands together with Norfolk Island and Christmas Island as a prescribed external territory. Section 4 of that Act indicates that the general terms of the Act extend to prescribed external territories. Section 13, which becomes relevant to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, provides that the Commission- in this case the Postal Commission- 'shall issue and sell postage stamps indicating such amounts of postage as the Commission deems appropriate '. 
I want to make a few remarks about the philatelic services which have been provided on Christmas Island and Norfolk Island. I would also like to draw the attention of the Minister to some undertakings which should be looked at as far as the establishment of a philatelic service for Cocos (Keeling) Islands is concerned in order to avoid some of the more unfortunate aspects of the way in which philatelic services in Christmas Island and Norfolk Island have occasionally developed. I also want to ask the Minister certain questions regarding the position of the Australian Postal Commission in its role as agent for the philatelic services which will be provided for Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
I am disappointed that there is no really accurate attempt on the part of the Government to indicate the projected level of revenue that may accrue from the establishment of these philatelic services. I think it is interesting to have a look at what the most recent reports for both Christmas Island and Norfolk Island have had to say about the provision of and the revenue derived from philatelic services. Christmas Island has had its own separate philatelic service since 1968 and has issued, I think, something in the order of 100 different postage stamps. Christmas Island, because of difficulties in franking postage stamps, is one of the few areas from which good quality postage stamps which have been franked are worth more than the mint issues. The 1977-78 Christmas Island report indicates that revenue derived from postal services, including philatelic revenue, was $107,000 in 1975-76, $202,000 in 1976-77 and $570,667 in 1977-78. This indicates a quite substantial increase in revenues derived from philatelic services. In this instance one would have thought that increased revenues have been derived without the benefit of tourism as  Senator Douglas  McClelland indicated is the case in relation to Norfolk Island. 
The Christmas Island report indicates that the Philatelic Bureau in fact is supplying something like 2,500 standing order clients around the world, the majority of these, one would suspect, being in the Australasian region. People who are interested in postage stamps will undoubtedly recall the Christmas 1977 issue of postage stamps which consisted of a sheet of 12 different stamps commemorating various aspects of the carol The Twelve Days of Christmas'. That issue was awarded seventh place in the 1977 stamp of the year competition conducted by one of the more respected international philatelic organisations. Not having had the benefit of checking with  Senator Lajovic  the title of this organisation, which is in Italian, I will not trouble myself with the pronunciation. All I can say is that the translation of this organisation is simply, I think, the Italian stamp collectors organisation. 
The 1977-78 Norfolk Island report similarly indicates a fairly widespread increase in the revenue derived from philatelic sales as far as its postage stamps are concerned. The statement of revenue for that year in the report indicated the sale of stamps at $549,667. The details provided in chapter 1 1 of the report indicate a fairly extensive program. There were five principal issues of stamps during the course of that year, all of which were marked by being issued for fairly short periods of time. They were withdrawn from general distribution fairly quickly after they had been introduced. This clearly indicates the extent to which the Norfolk Island stamps were being used as a fairly short, sharp method of raising reasonable sums of revenue. These stamps were fairly scarce. 
Norfolk Island stamps have been issued independently since 1947. More than 200 issues have been made in that time. It will be interesting to see whether the Australian Postal Commission intends to encourage in the Christmas 
Island, Norfolk Island and Cocos (Keeling) Islands jurisdictions some of the more interesting philatelic developments that it has engaged in in the last year or so. The Commission derives something like $8. 5m in revenue from its own philatelic sales. It pursues a fairly conservative policy on stamp issues. However, it has introduced a series of fairly novel innovations in the promotion of Australian stamps, particularly the introduction of the new maxi-card which in effect is a blow-up of the subject matter of the postage stamp concerned. I understand that this card was issued for the first time last Christmas. 
There are, however, certain aspects of the way in which philatelic business has been conducted, particularly in relation to Christmas Island, that are somewhat less than satisfactory in my judgment, and I hope that they will be avoided in the case of Cocos (Keeling) Islands. Stamps from the smaller nations in our part of the world in recent times have been subject to a fair amount of what I think can rightly be described as fiddling. Artificial prices have been derived for these stamps by indicating to people in general or in quite specific terms that a large number of stamps of a particular issue would be printed and sold, and then at some later stage restricting the issue to below the number originally expected, thereby causing fairly sharp increases in prices. The most notorious example of this practice in recent years was in 1977 when an indication was given that a fairly large number of the Silver Jubilee issue from Tonga would be made available for sale. These stamps were placed on the market in Australia at about $9.50 a set. An indication was suddenly given that something had gone wrong and the number of sets available was substantially diminished. The price went up in the space of about three weeks from $9.50 a set to $75 a set, which is not a bad sort of windfall profit if one happened to have been in the know fairly early and had bought a couple of hundred sets at $9.50. 
I am saying that there is, in certain philatelic administrations- and Tonga is one that I specifically point to- a degree of behaviour which, as  Senator Peter  Baume has rightly said, can only take place with some degree of connivance on the part of the postal authorities concerned. Such practices should not be tolerated or condoned by government or semi-government policies. Nauru is another place in which this practice has been evident. I am concerned that something of a similar nature took place in respect of the philatelic department on Christmas Island over the issue of the stamps depicting 'The Twelve Days of Christmas ' which I mentioned previously. The first issue of these stamps was made on non-watermarked paper. Quite clearly the printing was far too small in terms of numbers and far too many of them were immediately despatched to major philatelic outlets in the United Kingdom and the United States so that in Australia, bearing in mind the relationship between the Australian Postal Commission and the philatelic services of Christmas Island, there were very few, if any, of these sets available. What happened was that they were sent to the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom large numbers of these sheets were broken up into individual stamps instead of being preserved in sheets. Because of this the value of these stamps on the market in Sydney increased threefold in the first week of issue. They were completely unavailable from the philatelic outlets in Sydney. There was sufficient demand and furore about the whole thing for a second issue of these stamps to be made, the difference being that the second issue was made on watermarked paper. Therefore, purely from a collector's point of view, the value of the first issue on nonwatermarked paper was preserved at a fairly artificially high level. 
There have been instances of this even with the stamps issued by the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, which has been issuing stamps bearing that title since 1963 although I think that it has issued fewer than 50 stamps in only about four or five sets. Certainly the 1969 decimal set, which went on sale on 9 July 1969 and remained on sale until its withdrawal on 31 December 1976, ran into problems in that there was somehow a shortfall in the maintaining of supplies of the 2c and 10c stamps in that set so that long before the date on which the stamps were formally withdrawn from issue the sets were no longer able to be purchased. 
I understand that the Australian Postal Commission is to act as agent in Australia in the same way as it does not only for Norfolk Island and Christmas Island but also for certain others and that negotiations are to be held with private commercial agents to arrange sales in other countries. I understand that the Postal Commission intends to charge a standard flat fee of 35 per cent of revenue from sales for these stamps. I am a little curious about this 35 per cent. I raise this matter for a couple of reasons. The Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  has indicated in his second reading speech that the objective of establishing this philatelic administration is to provide revenue for the people of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. I think that mat is an admirable undertaking. As I have said, I would like to have more details about what that revenue might be, particularly bearing in mind the fact that the January 1977 to June 1978 report for the Islands indicates that revenue in 1977-78 was only $59,250. One wonders what the situation will be and whether in fact the sale of postage stamps will provide the bulk of revenue for the Cocos (Keeling) Islands compared with the other sources of revenue. 
I mention the 35 per cent fee because Christmas Island operates similarly by having agents other than the Australian Postal Commission to act for it. I understand that the Postal Commission acts as agent for Christmas Island only in the sale of stamps and that stamp packs, such as the 1969 and 1976 decimal currency and ship series packs which were issued by the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, and first day covers, which are an interesting collector's item, are not sold through the Postal Commission as agent. In fact, Christmas Island has recently appointed an agent in Sydney to sell first day covers for it. The agent is an excellent dealer by the name of Robert Kennedy, who, I should acknowledge, has been good enough to provide me with information about the agent arrangements with Christmas Island. He tells me that in fact the contract he has with the Christmas Island authority for the sale of these first day covers and packs provides for a commission of 25 per cent of sales at face value. As an agent operating a small efficient business in Sydney is prepared to work on the basis of a 25 per cent commission, I am curious as to why the Australian Postal Commission, which is selling only stamps and not packs or first day covers, should require the higher figure of 35 per cent, thereby depriving the people of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands of a certain percentage of revenue which might otherwise come their way. 
I turn very briefly to the question of where the printing of these stamps should be undertaken. Last year the Industries Assistance Commission reported on some of the problems in the printing industry. It made it quite clear that governments had some role to play in assisting the printing industry in Australia where possible by helping it to find extra work and particularly looking at the business of contracting out work which might otherwise be done by government printing works and which could profitably or adequately be done by others. In my view Australia has been a bit tardy in this respect because, with the Norfolk 
Island and Christmas Island philatelic services basically under our control, we have still by and large allowed the stamps involved to be printed overseas. In fact the 1974 aircraft set of Norfolk Island was printed in Helsinki and most printing since has been done by Harrison's of London. Stamps from No. 33 onwards in the Christmas Island catalogue were also printed by Harrison's. I notice that the House of Questa which is a major printing concern in the United Kingdom, also has obtained a fair amount of work from similar places. I am concerned as to why it is that when all Australian postage stamps are printed quite adequately in Australia- some of them are of the very highest quality with the most beautiful printing, such as the Tom Roberts series of high value stamps- the philatelic organisations directly connected with the Australian Postal Commission should be going outside Australia to print their stamps. This has been happening for a long time, even when we were responsible for the postal administration in Papua New Guinea. We very often allowed its stamps to be printed by the firm of Courvoisier 
I would like also to talk in a general sense about stamps that are under the control of the Postal Commission or related authorities. There are a number of things that I think could be done which would substantially assist people who find postage stamps not only fascinating in themselves but also interesting from the historical and educational point of view. One thing that we could do, for instance, is put dates on stamps indicating the date on which particular events took place or the relevant dates concerning people who are being commemorated. It has always struck me as being quite ridiculous that we should issue Australian postage stamps- for instance, the series about Prime Ministerswithout indicating any date, so that anybody who is collecting them on a random basis would not know whether Deakin came before or after Billy Hughes. If we are going to use postage stamps for educative purposes, which I believe we certainly can do, these are the sorts of things that the postal administration should be looking at. Similarly, in regard to the cancellation of stamps, particularly the cancellation of first day covers, we ought to pay a little more attention to having a system of franking which bears some relationship to the issue of the stamp involved. 
I would say finally that I hope that we will maintain some sense of conservatism in terms of the issue of stamps from these administrations. At the moment a large number of stamps are being issued to celebrate the 200th anniversary of Captain Cook's voyages. It is undoubtedly a matter of considerable interest that so far the countries to issue stamps commemorating Captain Cook's voyages have been not only the ones that one would have expected to do so but also such diverse places as the Central African Empire, Mali, Upper Volta and the Camerouns whose historical and cultural links with Captain Cook one might have thought to have been somewhat remote. Nevertheless, I believe that this piece of legislation is most interesting. It is not often that one comes to the creation of a separate philatelic organisation or, indeed, that one looks to expanding the number of countries that will be issuing postage stamps. I suppose that there is no way of estimating the number of people in Australia who, as collectors or observers, have some interest in postage stamps and philately. It must run to hundreds and hundreds of thousands, and throughout the world the number must run into many millions. I hope, therefore, that in the administration of the philatelic services on the Cocos Islands some of the problems which have been evident with the administrations on Christmas Island and Norfolk Island will be avoided. I hope, similarly, that the Minister will be able to make some comment on the Commission's desire to take 35 per cent of sales as its agent's fee, and that in developing the philatelic administration of the Cocos Islands the majority of our concern will be directed towards maximising revenue which can be turned back into providing additional funds for the welfare of the people who happen to live there. 
-Has the Minister for Science and the Environment seen recent Bureau of Statistics figures which indicate that spending by Australian companies on research and development fell by 18 per cent between 1973-74 and 1976-77, that is, from $190m to $157m, and that the number of man-years involved fell by a figure of 40 per cent? Does the Minister recognise the potentially disastrous situation which Australia could face if this trend continues? As part of the reason for this decline may be attributed to the phasing out of the Research and Development Incentive Grants scheme by the Whitlam Government, will the Minister now give some consideration to the reintroduction of some similar scheme to try to reverse this unfortunate situation? 
-I present the following petition from 25 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That those who have retired and those who are about to retire, are being severely and adversely affected by inflation and Australian economic circumstances. 
The continuance of the Means Test on pensions causes undue hardship to them. 
We call on the Government to immediately abolish the means test on all Aged Pensions. 
To ensure a pension for all on retirement and a guarantee that all Australian citizens will retire with dignity. 
Acknowledge that a pension is a right and not a charity. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether his attention has been drawn to Press reports this morning of statements by  Mr Sam  Nujoma, the  President  of the South West African People's Organisation- SWAPOrejecting the composition of the United Nations Transitional Group in Namibia, of which Australia is proposing to be part. Is this a major reversal of the position of SWAPO, which in September 1978 wrote to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kurt Waldheim, endorsing the plan which he had submitted to the Security Council? Is this, in fact, an attempt by  Mr Nujoma  to bolster his shaky position in SWAPO, which has been under threat since the split in SWAPO between him and his former executive member, Andreas Shipanga? Will the statement by  Mr Nujoma,  including his threat of continued violence against any United Nations force, cause the Australian Government to revise its position on the commitment of our servicemen to this vital United Nations undertaking? 
The report introduced by the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts entitled 'Children and Television' tries to come to grips in large measure with a recent phenomenon that is shaping society in a way substantially different from the way in which societies have developed in the past. It is probably true to say that at almost no other time in the evolution of human society has there existed quite such a pervasive method of influencing people which is as completely distributed throughout the community as the television set is in Australia. 
On 20 February this year, in answer to question on notice in the House of Representatives, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  provided some information covering approximately 120 countries around the world. He set out the details of the number of radio sets or licences and the number of television sets or licences in each of the countries and the number of television sets per 100 inhabitants of those countries. In themselves, those figures are most revealing. They show that, in the United States of America, for every 100 people in the population 55.2 have a television set. When one goes to the next highest country on that list of more than 120 countries one finds it is the figure given for Australia at 35.2 sets per 100 inhabitants. This compares with figures of 24.3 for Japan, 27.1 for New Zealand, 32.1 for the United Kingdom and 34.8 for Canada. It can therefore be seen that the television set, as a means of communication and thereby as a means of influencing both development and behaviour, is so widespread throughout the Australian community that only the United States may be said to be in a worse position- and I use that term advisedly. 
Undoubtedly it would come as a surprise to many honourable senators to see the statistics given in the Committee's report indicating that more than 20 per cent of Australian children watch more than 30 hours of television a week. Apart from the effect that this has in terms of taking up time in which children could be engaged in other pursuits, be they sporting, cultural, recreational, social or educative pursuits, it can be seen that for a very large section of the young community of Australia television is about the most important thing in their lives. It is quite some years now since Marshall McLuhan's work first came to public attention; yet that work made it quite clear to anybody who was prepared to read and study it and to absorb McLuhan's conclusions that it was about time social planners and people interested in education and similar pursuits paid attention to the actual means by which information was communicated instead of paying attention just to the type of information communicated. 
It is interesting now to reflect on the report of the royal commission into television in Australia in 1953. In its report to the Parliament it said: 
The objective of all television stations from the outset must be to provide programs that will have the effect of raising standards of public taste. 
One would have thought that raising the standards of public taste was about the last thing that Australian television stations have actually done and about the lowest thing on the agenda of the television stations, particularly the commercial stations, in terms of what they are trying to do. We know that raising the standard of public taste, or indeed providing quality education, is something that can be done through the medium of television. One does not need to go into considerable detail about the role of the British Broadcasting Commission, for instance, or to indicate the quality and nature of BBC programs that appear on television in Australia- programs such as  The Ascent of Man,  in which  Dr Bronowski  took a most fascinating intellectual journey through human history. He presented the program to a viewing audience in a fashion which was both comprehensible and interesting. Nor should it be thought that television stations in Australia are incapable of doing the same. I have no doubt that the production of programs such as  In The Wild  has done more to bring about the real education of Australian children and adults about the country in which they live than just about any other undertaking. 
Part of the phenomenon of being young these days is that one gets almost all of one 's contact with nature and almost all of one's understanding, comprehension or vision of one's own country not by the personal experience of going out into the bush or by travelling but by the surrogate personal experience of sitting in front of a television set. To a large extent this has resulted from what I believe is abdication of parental responsibility for the behaviour of children. It simply cannot be held that the children themselves, without any involvement by parental authority, are turning on the television set and choosing what they will watch and when they will watch it. 
I recall a remark, I think it was made by  Senator Button,  when this report was first introduced, that one of the things that he had done was to get rid of the television set or limit the access to the television set which his children watched. 
-That in itself undoubtedly would be a considerable improvement on some of the funny things we in Sydney have to suffer broadcast secondhand from Victoria. The report itself draws attention to this behaviour of parental authorities by quoting evidence from the United States in which a committee responsible for producing a report entitled 'Television and Growing Up: The Impact of Televised Violence' reported as follows: 
Parents usually exert little influence over their children's viewing. Our data indicate that in an overwhelming majority of families, the children control the use of the television set through early evening. Indeed, one study reports that parents often ask advice from their children when they select early evening programs. 
If parental authorities are going to abdicate not only the responsibility but also the choice in this matter, not so much to their children but to the people who decide what will be shown on the television screens, we will reach a situation in which anybody attempting to play a legitimate role in shaping the moral code, the ethical values or even the educational framework of children is abdicating that responsibility to some total stranger in the programing departments of the television stations. To that extent the gulf that may exist between children and parents- the socalled generation gap which may be growing at an even faster rate as children's knowledge expands these days- is in part encouraged by the fact that parental authorities have done nothing to prevent it from occurring. 
One of the many important recommendations in the Senate Committee report relates to the creation of patterns of unrealistic lifestyle which the television seeks to encourage. It is certainly true that if one were to observe over a prolonged period the nature of social relationships, the nature of physical relationships and the nature of sheer physical conditions of living in which most of these television soap operas and most of the television programs tend to be shown, one would get without doubt the most unrealistic picture of life in the United States, Great Britain, Australia or anywhere else. It is certainly true that television is better able to recreate the realistic lifestyle of bygone eras whether it happens to be the recreation by the BBC of a program such as  Elizabeth R  or the re-creation in Australia of the lifestyle and more apparent in an excellent program such as  The Sullivans,  but in terms of dealing with contemporary matters and conditions of life the television without doubt gives a most unrealistic portrayal. I believe that in shaping false expectations and perceptions television, in fact, is playing its part in ensuring that young people, impressionable people, when sent out into the world at large are incapable of adjusting to a situation that they had no idea really existed. Instead of finding the Utopia out there they find a world with all of its cruelties and harshness. They are as ill-prepared for it as if they had been brought up in a monastery. 
Perhaps the most important single aspect of the Senate Committee report is the way in which it deals with the promotion- and indeed it is the promotion- of violence on the television. This problem has been known to researchers for a considerable period. In 1964, Berkowitz a very eminent American psychologist, published a series of detailed articles in the  Scientific American  dealing with the effect of television and film violence on the development of young people. This matter has been taken further and updated considerably in the Committee's report. Paragraph 5.28 of the Committee's report states that a survey undertaken in Canada came up with these conclusions: 
We can conclude on the basis of the present data cumulation that television, as it is shown today, probably does stimulate a higher amount of aggression in individuals within society. 
It is no wonder. For instance, a letter appeared in a recent edition of, I think,  TV Week  relating to one of the more hideous programs on Australian television at the moment called  Cop Shop.  The viewer wrote in and complained that there was too much sex in  Cop Shop.  The letter said, in effect: 'Why don't we see a bit more police violence?'. This viewer has written to a television magazine and the magazine has published the letter which complains that there is not enough realistic violence on the shows produced on Australian television. That in itself is a serious problem which needs to be faced. I believe that the recommendations, particularly those for the adoption of an industry code and self-regulation, show that this Committee has faced up to the problem very squarely and with a considerable amount of courage. It is not enough simply to say that watching television gives people square eyes. There is in fact even a postulate advanced by the Emerys that the effect of television is far more serious. I quote from paragraph 5.74 of the Committee 's report: 
In essence, the Emerys postulate that by its very nature, the television signal produces a temporary numbing of the left hemisphere of the brain which is the perceptive or thought processing function - 
It seems to me that there are some honourable senators here whose left hemisphere is somewhat depressed this evening. 
-It depends which way they are watching television. The quote continues:  . . thus allowing other parts of the brain to dominate. In other words, television viewing induces a passivity or mental torpor in the viewer which leads to an impaired capacity to process and remember information thus limiting the medium's educative ability to familiarise the viewer with something but not to inform him about things. 
Part of the problem that is faced in the development of Austraiian television at the moment is the question with which I am sure most honourable senators are familiar. I refer to the way in which the rating system operates. Many honourable senators will have seen correspondence from the Australian Association of National Advertisers which relates to the way in which television executives and television stations in general manipulate the nature of television programs so as to produce attractive quality on high rating programs during particular periods of the year in order lo demonstrate that their ratings are up and therefore their capacity to attract advertising is greater. During the remainder of the year they abdicate any responsibility for attempting to provide quality programs on television. 
It is certainly true that major changes are taking place in the viewing habits of the public, not only in Australia but in many comparable countries. Who, for instance a couple of years ago would have been prepared to concede the point that a television show produced for children in which animated glove puppets singing and dancing and mixed with a variety of live guest stars- of course the program to which I refer is  The Muppet Show-  would attract worldwide audiences larger than audiences for any other undertaking ever produced on the public media? It is a strange world in which Miss Piggy and Kermit are probably better known than the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen). 
The report goes on at some considerable length to indicate the need for more constructive research to be undertaken in any number of areas relating to the television industry- not only the nature of programs, not only the viewing habits that are connected with those programs, but also the effect of television, the effect of television violence, and the effect of excessive exploitation of sex on television. I believe there comes a point where, if the Federal Government believes that its control of the airways is absolute- it has asserted this since the start of broadcasting in Australia by issuing licences, by denying other people the right to broadcast, or to broadcast on particular frequencies, or to broadcast at a particular time- then surely it bears the responsibility of providing people with accurate information about the effect on the rest of the community of the way in which the airways are being used. To the extent that this report urges that there must be greater expenditure and that there must be greater attention given to the question of research, it is one that the Government should take with particular seriousness. Undoubtedly this report will be one to which the Government, in the course of the next six months, will make some reply. 
I turn briefly to the question of programming for children. It is not simply because this is the International Year of the Child that this matter requires our attention: It is because in the whole development of television, and, in particular, in the hearings that have been conducted by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, people in the community have expressed a greater degree of concern about children's television than they have about anything else. Those who followed the proceedings of the Tribunal in Adelaide would have seen the extent to which that was a dominating factor. Those who have seen the attempts of certain members of the Broadcasting Tribunal to prevent similar submissions being made to the Sydney hearings, and the way in which the Tribunal has now decided that it will accept those submissions, will also be impressed with the number and the quality of the submissions relating to children's television. In paragraph 3.14 of the Committee's report there is a quotation from  Mr R.  Casey, the general manager of Channel 7 in Melbourne. He told the Committee: 
Quite frankly, it would be reasonable to say that the industry was surprised at the great accent which emerged throughout Australia through the (ABT) hearings. There was so much discussion about children's television. We thought there would be a lot of discussion about many things but there is no doubt that children's television developed as the central issue of that inquiry. 
I believe that the Committee, in coming to its conclusions, has paid particular attention to the need for more research in this area and to the need for the development of better programs in this area. It has for instance, suggested that there be no transmission of programs between the hours of 6 a.m. and 9 a.m. on weekdays during school terms and that the Broadcasting Tribunal take the necessary action to implement this recommendation. It has recommended that at least 30 minutes of kindergarten programming be shown by commercial stations on each weekday. The Committee has made recommendations about the classification of programs to be shown on television. It has made recommendations about the employment and the use of children on television and it has made particular recommendations that the Government establish an independent children's television program production unit. It has recommended that there be no advertising of any form during the screening of programs designed for pre-school children. This goes very much to the heart of the discussion that  Senator Baume  and other honourable senators had on the previous report. It is quite clear that commercial interests in Australia are using the medium of television in order to have an influence on the way in which young children, pre-school children, react to the sale of products, and to influence them to bring pressure to bear on their mothers in the supermarkets. They also have an influence on the demands which are artificially created in the minds of young children about what commercial products they demand that they should have. The recommendation about advertising in this regard is one which, as I say, the Senate has already heard discussed in another context this evening. 
It seems to me that a large number of other matters arise out of this report. There are many other areas in this report that I would have liked to discuss in greater detail but which I am not able to do because of the relatively short notice given as regards this matter. I know that  Senator Ryan  and other honourable senators equally would want to participate in this particularly important debate. I would not like to see the report disappear from the Notice Paper and therefore,  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport a question which relates to the continued advertising campaigns of Qantas Airways Ltd. Has the Minister seen reports that advertising agencies in the United Kingdom have rated the Qantas advertising campaign as the worst advertising campaign of the year? Has he seen reports that in the Survey of Australian advertisers reported in the  Advertising News  of 22 December last the Qantas campaign was rated as the worst advertising campaign introduced in Australia this year? Has he seen that Qantas has now developed a new advertising style for the United States of America based on the premise that Americans are unable to understand the language, grammar and slang of Australians, and should therefore be made familiar with the way in which the average Australian talks? To that extent I ask the Minister whether he is able to give a translation of the following terms used in Qantas 's advertising: 'To drink with the flies', 'a fizzgig', 'an onkus'. or the phrase: 'Some of you cackyhanded galahs would dob in your cheese and kisses, dead set'. If the Minister is unable to give a translation of these, is he prepared to say how much longer the Government is prepared to allow Qantas to indulge in this style of promotion of Australia in foreign countries. 
My colleague,  Senator Lajovic,  was originally intending to second this motion. He is not in the chamber at the moment. It therefore gives me great pleasure to second the motion. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
In discussing the matter of urgency put forward by the Opposition I think it is wrong to attempt to discuss student allowances in total isolation from the overall approach that the Government has adopted towards education and education funding. I think, therefore, it ought to be incumbent on us to have some regard to the level and nature of expenditure which the Government has dedicated towards education in general terms. It is from that point that I wish to proceed. It is indicated in Budget Paper No. 1 for the most recent Budget that the total outlays on education are estimated to increase by 6.1 per cent in 1978-79 to $2,497.6m, this total being equivalent to 8.7 per cent of estimated total outlays. 
When  Senator Robertson  talks about keeping education 'in the club', when he makes an attempt to imply that pan of the policy of this Government has been to restrict access to education or to limit the number of persons having access to education, it is perhaps worth remembering that the last Budget introduced by the Australian Labor Party when it was in government did not devote 8.7 per cent of total outlays to education expenditure, but the lower figure of 8.4 per cent. It did not devote a sum of $2,497m but a sum of $ 1,846m. The progress in terms of both real expenditure and progress as a proportion of total Budget expenditure on education has increased substantially during the period that this Government has been in office. Indeed, if one wants to establish the point at which the real erosion of student allowances may be said to have become evident, one only has to refer to the 1975 Budget provisions for education, the last Budget in which no allowance was made for any increase in student allowances. It is not true to say that we are keeping education within the club when one can see that in 1975 approximately 135,000 students were receiving benefits and when it is expected that by the end of this year that number will be something like 1 70,000. That is an increase of 26 per cent. 
Just as it is a question of the priorities within expenditure, also it is incumbent upon any Senate to ask questions related to the way in which total government expenditure has to be divided up. We must try to establish, for instance, the relative value of student assistance schemes as compared, say, with additional assistance for the physically handicapped or indeed in competition with additional expenditure for defence or the arts or any other of the expenditure areas with which the Government is faced. I think it is useful to talk firstly about the numbers of students being assisted under the various schemes. I take a comparison between the figures at 30 June 1975 and the figures at 30 June 1978. The number of students involved in tertiary education assistance in 1975 was a little over 67,000. The number is now 88,700. The number of students receiving a secondary allowance was 6,796 and is now 17,195. The number of students receiving Aboriginal Secondary Grants was 11,762 and is now 13,854. The number of students receiving Aboriginal Study Grants was 1,875 and is now 2,531. The number of students receiving adult secondary education assistance was 1,021 and is now 2,233. One can translate these raw figures on the number of students involved to the level of expenditure. 
I refer again to the level of expenditure in the period 1975-76 as compared with the period 1978-79. Expenditure on post-graduate awards, for instance, increased from $7.7m to $9.3m. Expenditure on tertiary education assistance increased from $ 109.6m to $ 167.2m. Expenditure on secondary allowances increased from $5.6m to $9.2m. Expenditure on Aboriginal secondary grants increased from $8. 6m to $13.2m. Expenditure on children in isolated areas increased from $10.3m to $14.5m. The raw figures themselves do not in fact summarise the entire position. But I think it is important to indicate that the one great weakness in the case put forward by  Senator Button-  the one weakness I was surprised to find in the presentation that he made- was that he made no attempt to establish the goals and the purposes of student allowance schemes as such. What are the real goals? How are we to measure whether real goals are being met as distinct from simply making measurements in terms of statistics and cash payments? 
It is certainly not true, I believe, to adopt the sort of approach that  Senator Robertson  seems to adopt, that is, that it is really the purpose, function or even within the power of the Government to bring about a situation in which students can study without being subject to any external sources of worry. Unless one is going to put them in a Trappist monastery and allow them to study there and expect them to develop any sort of appreciation of the value or relevance of their study. How can one say one has to design schemes in order to protect students from external worry? That seems to be a completely unrealistic way of dealing with the question of what student loans, student schemes or student assistance programs are all about. As I said before, given the record of the 1975 Budget the members of the Labor Party ought to be the last people to start complaining about levels of student loans. They were the last people to regard student assistance programs as being of such low priority that a Budget should be constructed in which no additional funds were provided. 
I suppose it is equally encumbent on  Senator Button  in presenting his case to try studiously to avoid those schemes that have been introduced or very substantially expanded by this Government, in order to portray a false picture that student assistance is restricted almost exclusively to the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowance. For instance, one of the most imaginative, innovative and, in the long run, most important schemes to have been introduced- in some ways it can be regarded as a scheme of student assistance-is that connected with the Education Program for Unemployed Youth. In February 1977 it was expected that $1.5m would be allocated to that program, but now it is receiving an allocation of $3.2m. That program involves some 3,800 students in over 70 centres studying various skills and trades and, above all, things that are particularly suited to them and their future in employment. Yet, there was no mention of that from  Senator Button.  Why has there been no mention of the considerable expansion of the program of assistance to students in disadvantaged country areas? In 1977, out of a program totalling $ 19.51m for disadvantaged education areas, $4.1m was devoted to disadvantaged country areas. In my State of New South Wales there have been programs of assistance to communities and students in places such as Bourke, Gulargambone, Barwon River, Wee Waa, Macquarie Marshes, Quambone, Burren Junction, Pilliga, Collarenebri, Goodooga, Walgett and Coonamble. They are outstanding examples of the extent to which this Government has been concerned about providing assistance to students in various parts of the country. 
The last thing I wish to say about this debate which has been brought on today is that it is a sad and sorry reflection upon the Australian Labor Party that those honourable senators who expected to debate this matter yesterday found that the Opposition was more concerned in national terms with having its muck-raking exercise on the air than it was with dealing with this problem, which it sees as one of significance. I think that puts clearly in perspective the Opposition senators' priorities in dealing with the problems of Australian students. That is the sort of attitude which they take, and I think it is one that ought to be drawn to the attention of people who have any concern for education. Because that is the level of priorities accorded to this issue by the Australian Labor Party, and since its case is so weak and its priorities in the matter are so feeble, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I preface it by saying that in recent weeks the Minister may have seen Press reports regarding the need for broad work experience programs for teachers, in particular, teachers engaged in giving career guidance in secondary schools. Has the Minister given consideration to the need for new forms of training for teachers, including teachers employed as careers advisers in secondary schools? Can he inform the Senate whether it might be appropriate for secondary teachers to have short periods of work experience in industry and commerce? Secondly, has the Minister given consideration to a request to the States to examine the possibility of placing school careers advisers in the executive training courses run by the largest Australian companies? 
I support the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill and the associated measures. I will confine my remarks this evening to general observations about the nature of a security service in a democratic system of government and reserve my comments on specific sections of the Bill until the Committee stage. 
I think it has always been understood that in any political system, including all the democracies, some sort of security system has been necessary. The maxim laid down by Cicero, 'Salus populi suprema lex' is perhaps the guiding attitude behind the development of security services in a democracy. It has been adequately expressed by Lord Denning in his 1963 report into the Profumo scandal. In that report Lord Denning wrote: 
No one can understand the role of the Security Service in the Profumo affair unless he realises the cardinal principle that their operations are to be used for one purpose, and one purpose only, the Defence of the Realm. They are not to be used so as to pry into any man 's private conduct or business affairs: or even into his political opinions, except in so far as they are subversive, that is, they would contemplate the overthrow of the Government by unlawful means. 
That test, the defence of the realm, is one that stands the test of time. I know that Clarendon spoke at the time of the Restoration about what he called that 'fathomless abyss, reasons of state'. But there are reasons of state. There are matters of defence of the realm. They are relevant for a security service within a democratic framework of government. 
Obviously, some limitations are needed within any such framework to balance out the equally valid and important need to protect civil liberties and the rights of individuals. Speaking in the House of Lords in 1975, Lord Chalfont, a very distinguished British politician, was at some pains to indicate the extent to which security services were necessary and the extent to which their operations should be tolerated. In his speech, in part, he said: 
For the purpose of this analysis it might be useful to take as a point of departure the familiar proposition that the distinction between dissent and subversion lies in the dividing line between the use and the abuse of the instruments of democracy. In many cases, of course, the question of use or abuse will be largely subjective and will depend on the political viewpoint of the individual. But there is one factor in this argument which seems to me to be unmistakable and to carry a special significance; that is the factor of violence. 
I think that the definitions proposed within the ASIO Bill, drawn as they are from the extensive research and work done by  Mr Justice  Hope in his review of Australia's security services, indicate that we have attempted to grapple in a fair and reasonable way with those definitions. I do not think that anybody would dispute- certainly  Mr Justice  Hope has not at any stage sought to dispute- the need for some sort of security service in Australia. 
From paragraph 1 1 onwards in the second report of the Royal Commission,  Mr Justice  Hope deals with this particular problem. In paragraph 13 he concluded from his discussion: 
It follows that ASIO or some other organization will have to continue to perform ASIO's present functions in relation to espionage. 
In paragraph 19 he said: 
I am satisfied that a security intelligence service should exist and continue as an important part of the measures taken by government for the defence and security of Australia, and that in performing its functions, it should provide the Australian Government in appropriate cases, with its security assessment about certain people. I am satisfied that ASIO is the appropriate body to make the investigations and assessments which such a system involves. 
It is certainly true that there have been investigations into special branches and police forces in other States. They have been useful in revealing the extent to which an uncontrolled or uncontrollable security service can develop even within the framework of the Australian democratic system. But even after his exhaustive review in South Australia,  Mr Acting  Justice White was moved to comment on page 25 of his report in these terms: 
There is no difficulty about the main purpose of a security force- defence of the nation against its non-military enemies. 
That, I believe, is a reasonable statement, embodied by and large in the attempt of this Bill to grapple with extremely difficult concepts. It is certainly true that our approach to the ASIO Bill has to be, as far as possible, a bipartisan effort. I am reminded that in this regard the Australian Labor Party has come a long way since its Launceston conference in 1971 where it voted 22 to 22 on a motion proposed by a certain  Mr Robert  Gould of New South Wales to abolish ASIO altogether. That motion was lost because of the equality of votes and, let it be clearly said, because of the vigorous opposition to it that the then  Senator Lionel  Murphy led at that conference. 
I think it is important and useful to record that the debate on security legislation in Australia has now come back to a stage at which there is an attempt to find a measure of common ground and co-operation between both sides of the chamber in terms of producing a Bill that satisfies apparent national needs. Of course, part of the crucial element in this legislation is the definition provided for terms such as 'subversion '. These definitions which are to be found not only in the ordinary definitional part of the Bill but also in particular in clause 5 of the Bill which defines the meaning of subversion when not of foreign origin, are matters that have to be given very careful consideration, particularly in the Committee stage. I believe that  Mr Justice  Hope has considered in detail the nature and definition of terms such as ' terrorism ' and ' security '. He has been at pains to discuss concepts such as activities prejudicial to security, active measures of foreign intervention and the legislation- it has substantially followed his comments- provides a particularly important starting point from which legislation of this nature can proceed. 
I think it is important to understand that there will be a genuine public debate on what constitutes subversion and acts of terrorism short of the overt use of violence, activities prejudicial to security or active measures of foreign intervention. This is a healthy sign and part of the process by which the Parliament asserts, as I believe this legislation in the ultimate asserts, its control over the security services of this country. I know that there have been many attempts to limit the role and the operation of security services overseas. I am particularly mindful of the submissions made by a former Attorney-General of the United States of America,  Mr Levi.  In his submissions to the United States investigation of the activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation he indicated that FBI investigations should be authorised only on the basis of information or allegation that an individual or individuals acting in concert may be engaged in:  activities which involve or will involve the use of force or violence and the violation of federal law for one of five designated (criminal) purposes. Those . . . purposes are:- 
overthrowing the government of the United States or the government of a State; 
interfering, in the United States, with the activities of a foreign government or its authorized representatives; 
impairing for the purpose of influencing US government policies or decisions: 
the functioning of the government of the United States; 
the functioning of the government of a State; or 
interstate commerce. 
depriving persons of their civil rights under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States; or 
engaging in domestic violence or rioting when such violence or rioting is likely to require the use of the federal militia or other armed forces. 
Running through that very eminent submission, in exactly the same way as it runs through the legislation we are considering at the moment, is the question of the unlawful use of force. I certainly have some queries about the specific nature of some areas of these Bills. I am prepared to say that I am somewhat troubled about the way in which we would respond to activities which I suppose come under the category of active measures of foreign intervention which are defined as meaning clandestine or deceptive action taken by or on behalf of a foreign power to promote the interests of that power. It will be a matter of very fine judgment to decide, for instance, the extent to which people who. are supporters of the activities of a foreign power, people who favour particular policies supported by a foreign power, are entitled to use the legitimate means of propaganda and information within Australia to have that point actively debated. This clause- as will nearly all the clauses- will require some considerable degree of finesse and discretion on the part of the Director-General of Security and the Attorney-General. 
I know that John Barron in his oft-quoted - book  KGB: The Secret Works of Soviet Agents  wrote a whole chapter entitled 'Disinformation: Poisoning public opinion'. The practices of disinformation and the practices engaged in by the Soviet Union and by any other number of countries involved in the question of disinformation have to be kept actively under consideration. But equally there is no way possible within the democratic framework to stop even false or pernicious opinions being put in front of the public. The best way to counter those is neither by suppressing them nor by censoring them but by showing them to be false or pernicious. That will be one of the tests of the way in which we approach the administration of this legislation. 
I believe that a central point of this legislation, and indeed any legislation dealing with security, will be the establishment of the relationship between the security service, its director-general or permanent head, whatever title he may have at the time, and the elected government of the day. I do not believe, as some people have said, that it is possible for a security service to reveal all by comprehensive annual reports to the Parliament. But there must be a stage at which the people of this nation and every member of this Parliament must be satisfied that in the last resort the decisions can be made by, and the activities held as the responsibility of, a Minister of the Crown accountable in the first place to the Parliament and in the ultimate to the electorate. 
The main Bill represents in that respect a substantial improvement upon legislation in the past. Section 5 ( 1 ) of the old Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act, Act No. 113 of 1956, states that the functions of the Organisation are: 
to advise Ministers where the Director-General is satisfied that it is necessary or desirable to do so, in respect of matters relevant to security, insofar as those matters relate to Departments of State administered by them or to authorities of the Commonwealth established by or under Acts administered by them; 
This Bill in its much-criticised- I think unjustly criticised- clause 8 goes a long way to improving and rectifying that somewhat unsatisfactory situation. The ASIO legislation is not in any way unique as far as the relationship between the Minister and the head of the security service is concerned. I turn again to the report of Lord Denning. Lord Denning quoted at length a directive issued on 24 September 1952 by  Sir David  Maxwell Fyfe, then Home Secretary in Great Britain, to the Director-General of the Security Service. This directive remains the governing instrument of the British Security Service. I shall read part of the terms of reference. They are as follows: 
The Security Service is part of the Defence Forces of the country. Its task is the Defence of the Realm as a whole, from external and internal dangers arising from attempts at espionage and sabotage or from actions of persons and organisations whether directed from within or without the country, which may be judged to be subversive of the State. 
You will take special care to see that the work of the Security Service is strictly limited to what is necessary for the purposes of this task. 
No inquiry is to be carried out on behalf of any Government Department unless you are satisfied that an important public interest bearing on the Defence of the Realm, as defined in paragraph 2, is at stake. 
You and your staff will maintain the well-established convention whereby Ministers do not concern themselves with the detailed information which may be obtained by the Security Service in particular cases, but are furnished with such information only as may be necessary for the determination of any issue on which guidance is sought. 
They are the principles embodied in the legislation. The responsibility of a security chieftain or of a security service must be clearly to the elected government. Justice Mitchell in her royal commission report on the dismissal of Harold Hubert Salisbury observed the way in which Commissioner Salisbury regarded his relationship with the Government. I think it is important to understand this. The report states: 
In his interview with the Premier on 13 January 1978  Mr Salisbury  said that special branches of Police Forces had duties which he considered to be to the Crown, to the law and not to any political party or elected Government. In giving evidence he again affirmed that that was his belief and he said: 'As I see it the duty of the police is solely to the law. It is to the Crown and not to any politically elected Government or to any politician or to anyone else for that matter'. 
She goes on to say: 
That statement, insofar as it seems to divorce a duty to the Crown from a duty to the politically elected Government, suggests an absence of understanding of the constitutional system of South Australia or, for that matter, of the United Kingdom. 
I believe that the principle which she laid down about the accountability in this matter is one that we need to bear in mind. It has certainly been true that there has been an accumulation of dossier material all over the place. One knows from the report of  Mr Acting  Justice White about the arms full of material kept in South Australia's Special Branch- much of it exchanged with ASIO and much of it, in his words, 'scandalously inaccurate'. We know from the report of the New South Wales Privacy Committee entitled The Special Branch: Criminal Records in NSW' that the Special Branch in New South Wales, prior to a culling process which was the result of the Privacy Committee's investigation, had at that stage 20,000 current cards, more than 50,000 non-active cards, and 3,500 dossiers in active use. It is quite clear that there has been proliferation of this sort of material, the worst aspect of it being, I suppose, not that there has been so much of it but that there has been so much trivial rubbish kept on the files of police and security organisations. 
Of equal significance is that part of this Bill which deals with the question of the way in which information shall be communicated and particularly the way in which information shall be communicated between ASIO on the one hand and State special branches on the other hand. During the Committee stage I want to elaborate somewhat on that point. I am delighted to see in a piece of legislation a clause such as clause 20 (b) and the latter pan of clause 25 which make it quite clear that the legislation realises that there has in the past been activity on the part of the Security Service which should not have been tolerated- the matters referred to in paragraph 1 16 or 1 17 of the Hope report. These two clauses of this Bill make it quite clear that the guidelines and limitations laid down in this legislation are to be observed and that the DirectorGeneral has a particular responsibility to see that they are observed. It is certainly true that in the United States the point of almost no return was faced as far as the Central Investigation Agency or the Federal Bureau of Investigation were concerned. I want to deal for a moment with some comments on the role of the FBI which appear in an article in the magazine  New Yorker  of 8 August 1977. It reads: 
Investigations by Congress and the press in the past couple of years have revealed that members of the Federal Bureau of Investigation have committed many crimes in the line of duty over a long period. Without any legal authorisation, they have tapped telephones, they have opened and read private mail, they have planted electronic bugs in offices and bedrooms, they have written anonymous and false letters to the spouses and associates and employers of people they wanted to harm, they have committed burglaries and other break-ins, they have paid informants who later lied under oath, they have furnished funds and arms to paramilitary right-wing groups that have burned and bombed offices of left-wing groups and carried out assassination plots against left-wing leaders, they have used  agents provocateurs  to entrap others by planning and encouraging criminal conspiracies, they have incited police violence, they have blackmailed and slandered critics, and they have driven opposing radical  militants  to  atack  one another. These were not the isolated acts of individual agents operating independently but were carried out under dictates of high-level policy in the Bureau. 
The article continues: 
Although the FBI's crimes may have threatened our democracy even more than the Watergate crimes didbecause the FBI's lawlessness has been going on for such a long time on such a broad and pervasive scale, and because it has had such a chilling effect on freedom of expression and assembly- it seemed that the government wasn't going to do anything about these abuses of the law after their disclosure. 
I believe that there is a tendency in almost any security service for this sort of behaviour to occur if Directors-General and Attorneys-General are not particularly vigilant. Let me quote from what Justice Louis Brandeis had to say in talking about the activities of law enforcement and intelligence gathering. He said: 
In a government of laws, existence of the government will be imperilled if it fails to observe the law scrupulously,' . . . 'Our government is the potent, the omnipresent teacher. For good or for ill, it teaches the whole people by its example. Crime is contagious. If the government becomes a lawbreaker, it breeds contempt for law; it invites every man to become a law unto himself; it invites anarchy. To declare that in the administration of the criminal law the end justifies the means- to declare that the government may commit crimes in order to secure the conviction of a private criminal- would bring terrible retribution. ' 
One is almost tempted to suggest that it is a pity the Premier of Queensland has not read that comment. It is equally important to understand that this legislation deals also with the relationship between ASIO and foreign security services. I am loath to give this quotation but I suppose that the devil can quote scripture for his own purpose. In Richard Hall's book  The Secret State  on Australia's spy industry there is considerable discussion on the nature of the relationship between ASIO and the United States authorities. There is a quotation from Henry Albinski's book  Australian External Policy under Labor.  Albinski wrote: 
The United States did take seriously Australian security lapses. 
I think it is important to understand that although relationships with Great Britain or the United States might be an important and significant part of the work of ASIO they are in fact subsidiary to the protection of Australian interests and the extent to which one gets information from overseas or the extent to which one provides information to people overseas can be judged only by the criteria of what is necessary in the defence of Australia and in the defence of Australian citizens. I believe that the reporting procedures and the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced in the House of Representatives on 5 May 1977 the establishment of a special committee of Ministers comprising the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Treasurer, the Leader of the House, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Defence and the Attorney-General to set overall policy and oversee the work of the intelligence community is yet another important step in reinforcing the concept of ministerial responsibility and accountability for security matters. We know from the writings of Marchetti and Agee and those in any number of other American publications in recent years that unless one has a situation in which ultimately the Government, the Parliament and the Minister are held accountable and responsible we put a good deal at risk. Marchetti in his book  The CIA and the Cult of Intelligence  wrote: 
The Congress, which has the constitutional power and, indeed, the responsibility to monitor the CIA and US intelligence, has almost totally failed to exercise meaningful control. Intelligence has always been the sacred shibboleth which could not be disturbed without damaging the national security', and, despite loud protests from a few outspoken critics, neither legislative house has been willing to question seriously the scope or the size of intelligence activities. Yet, if there is to be any real, meaningful change in the intelligence community, it must come from Congress, and, judging from past experience, Congress will act only if prodded by public opinion. 
There is very little public opinion I believe in an informed and intelligible sense on this piece of legislation, and in the Committee stage I hope to be able to direct my remarks to some of the misinformation which has occurred in the Press, some of the wrongful statements made by editorial writers and commentators and in fact some of the quite scandalous misrepresentation of what this legislation says and is all about. I think that to that extent the responsibility lies even more heavily upon us as a House of review and indeed the Parliament as a whole to maintain a watching brief as far as possible over all activities which impinge in any way upon the security or the liberty of the individual citizen. 
Security services have come a long way.  Sir Francis  Walsingham who established perhaps one of the best security services in the world to protect his mistress Queen Elizabeth I would certainly not have recognised ASIO in its present form although he would have recognised a large number of the things that security services have to undertake, such as the opening of private mail and from time to time, as in Babbington's plot, the adding of a little bit to the end of it in order to produce the conviction that was required. I doubt that John Milton, who after all spent most of his life in security services- he was paid for most of his active working life as the secretary to the Council of State during Cromwell 's Protectorate and his immediate superior, John Thurloe, was the chief spymaster of the Commonwealthwould have recognised the organisation in its present form but he would have recognised, and indeed all people engaged in security operations would recognise, the continuing central point for which a security system ought to exist: The defence of the realm. It is impossible within a democratic framework of government to protect those liberties and rights which are essential to our continued survival without some vigilance and some care directed to informing ourselves about the activities of those who would, by illegal or illicit and violent means subvert those liberties and overthrow those freedoms. To the extent to which this new piece of legislation seeks not only to do that but to do it within the framework of responsible ministerial government, I am very pleased to give it my wholehearted support. 
I  continue my remarks on the report presented by the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts. I will restate briefly some of the matters that  I  discussed on the last occasion on which the report was debated in the Senate, which was on 1 March. I drew attention, in the first instance, to the all-pervasive nature of television in Australia. I also drew attention to the fact that Australia ranks only second behind the United States of America in terms of the number of television sets per 100 people in the population.  I  drew particular attention to some of the findings of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts which attempted, very successfully I believe, to bring into perspective the role of television in the process of learning, socialisation and the shaping of attitudes, behaviour and beliefs of children in Australia. 
Tonight I want to relate my remarks specifically not only to that report but also to some of the material that has been presented at the current somewhat controversial hearing of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal in Sydney. I take as my starting point a remark about children's television which was made in the report of the 1953 Royal Commission on Television. The Royal Commission stated: 
We think that it is one of the obligations to the public of all commercial stations to provide a suitable children's program, but we do not consider that this should be laid down as a legal obligation, in the case where there is a national station operating, but should rather be a matter to be considered when the question of the general standard of the service is examined at the time a licence needs renewal. 
I will pass on from the strictures of the Royal Commission and the fact that it then did not believe that this should be a matter of legislation. Perhaps it ought to be a matter of legislation today. It is useful to consider some of the remarks made by the Australian Broadcasting Control 
Board and the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, as it was known later, in relation to children's programs. The 28th annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board- that for the year ended 30 June 1976- was critical of television stations, particularly in respect of kindergarten programs. The Board stated in paragraph 6 1 6 of that report: 
A decline in the use by stations of kindergarten material, which formerly was one of the prominent features of the commercial service has, in the Board's view, been regrettable. 
The report went on to state that a table on a subsequent page:  . . shows clearly this decline from a high point in 1 970-7 1 when each metropolitan station presented an average of 328 hours of this material to 1 37 hours last year. 
That phenomenon has continued, and the annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal for the period ending 30 June 1977 noted that there had been a further decline in some ways in the amount of children's television. In fact, it had declined from 7 per cent to 6.2 per cent of the transmission time of metropolitan commercial stations. The report went on to indicate the Tribunal's ciriticism of some of the commercial stations. It stated in paragraph 1 83: 
During 1976 five metropolitan stations did not televise any kindergarten material and, overall, stations averaged less than 30 minutes per day. 
It went on to state: 
The situation improved in 1 977, with all but one metropolitan station televising at least 30 minutes per weekday of kindergarten programs, but a large number of country stations continued to completely ignore the programming needs of young children. 
Given the disadvantage that already exists for children in isolated areas, it is to be very much regretted that the commercial television stations which have at least a penetration into those areas were not prepared to pick up part of their responsibility in this matter. It is equally regrettable that the 46th annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission- that for the period 1 July 1977 to 30 June 1978-contained only a very scant reference to children's television. Only a couple of paragraphs on page 48 of the report indicated the extent to which children's television programs have been provided. The report certainly indicated that the new programs called  Wayzgoose  and  Living Daylights  had contributed something new to the production of Australian television for children; but it is disturbing to find that some programs now continue into the nineteenth year of performance. After 19 years there may be some ground for saying that the Commission should be looking to a little more experimental and innovative work. 
The problem of providing a balance of programs for children is dealt with in a most interesting Media Information publication entitled 'Media and the Child'. It is a special issue this month to mark the International Year of the Child. It deals exclusively with the media and children. An article by Julie Bailey which is entitled 'Regulatory Bodies and Children's Television Committees' makes this observation: 
The history of children's television committees within regulatory bodies would indicate the influence which they can have is not great. 
She concludes her article with the following remarks, which I support completely: 
The inescapable conclusion is that unless the Tribunal is prepared to either act on a majority opinion or to delegate to the Committee its power of regulation in this field of programming, we shall yet again be faced with a continuing saga of frustration identical in both its terms and its tone to those expressed by the Australian Teachers Association in 1 944 and witnesses to the Royal Commission on television in 19S3, the Senate Select Committee on The Encouragement of Australian Production for Television (the Vincent Committee)) in 1963, the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts looking at Broadcasting in 1972-74, the Broadcasting Tribunal 's Self Regulation Inquiry in 1 977, the Senate Standing Committee looking into the impact of Television on Children in 1978, and a repeat performance of the two previous Children's Advisory Committees. 
Despite the overwhelming weight of evidence presented in all of those inquiries critical of the commercial television stations for their lack of attention to the problem of children's television, we still have no responsible reaction from those stations. It seems to me to be quite clear, after considering the sort of material that has been put before the Tribunal hearings in Sydney, that this sort of attitude will persist. 
When I spoke on 1 March I quoted from a comment by  Mr R.  Casey, the General Manager of Channel 7 in Melbourne. He told the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts: 
Quite frankly, it would be reasonable to say that the industry was surprised at the great accent which emerged throughout Australia through the (ABT) hearings. There was so much discussion about children's television. We thought there would be quite a lot of discussion about many things but there is no doubt that children's television developed as the central issue of that inquiry. 
In some ways children's television is developing as the central issue of the inquiry that is currently under way in Sydney, despite the challenges to the power of the Tribunal and, indeed, to the personnel of the Tribunal. An article in the  Australian  of 16 March discussed the comment made by Ann Wesley Smith, a trained kindergarten teacher with 18 years' experience in Australian and British television programing. She drew attention to what she called the Australian programs of 'old tired formula' quizzes and repeated programs such as Australia's answer to the  Mickey Mouse Club, Yellow House,  and a number of other programs which are currently shown repeatedly on television. 
I drew attention in my speech on 1 March to the extent to which evidence presented to the Senate Committee indicated that children made many of decisions about what was actually watched on television. I quoted from a United States report entitled 'Television and Growing Up' which stated: 
Parents usually exert little influence over their children's viewing. Our data indicate that in an overwhelming majority of families the children control the use of the television set through early evening. 
I was therefore not surprised at the cover story of  Time  magazine of 12 March 1979 which dealt with the relative profits and policies pursued by the three mammoth United States commercial television stations. The report deals with the American Broadcasting Company, the American ABC, which is by far and away the most successful of the commercial broadcasting organisations in the United States. It had a profit of $ 1 85m last year. The magazine stated as follows: 
These days that bigger and better brother is ABC. Its great discovery was that kids control the dial, and that the channel turned on by a ten-year old at 8 p.m. will often remain on through the 1 1 o 'clock news. Hence, ABC hit upon a beginning line up for the kids:  Happy Days; Welcome Back  Kotter;  Eight is Enough,  and this season,  Mork  and  Mindy. 
Even Australian television executives appear to be waking up to the extent to which control over the dial is exercised by children. In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 13 March 1979 an advertisement appeared for the third episode of a mini series called  Aspen.  The advertisement is headed Final Episode Tonight 8.30 ' and continues: 
The story that has taken Sydney by storm comes to its thundering climax. Aspen, brought to you by the NSW Building Society. 
At the bottom of the page follows this bold type heading: 
Warning: Parental guidance is advised. 
Here is a commercial television station indicating that something that is being broadcast at a time when children are likely to be watching television is the sort of thing over which parents should exercise some degree of control. People do not even accept that Australian parents exercise much control over their children's viewing habits. A gallup poll report printed in the  Sun  newspaper of 8 March read as follows: 
At the same time 79 per cent said parents did not exercise sufficient control over the amount of television and the types of program watched by their children. 
I go on to discuss the next major area raised in the Senate Committee report that is, the control of programs advocating or portraying gross violence. In a recent issue of  Time  magazine one could read some more disturbing news about a new film called  The Warriors  which has been released by Paramount Pictures in the United States. The article states:   . . Paramount . . . was chillingly effective, bringing into 670 theatres around the country thousands of youth keen to see  The Warriors- and  eager for trouble. Since the film opened on February 9 three young men have been killed in Warrior-inspired fights and other brawls have broken out at movie houses in several cities. More than half a dozen theatres have dropped the film entirely; others are hiring some muscle of their own, which Paramount will pay for. 
I am interested to read that  Mr Prowse,  the Chief Commonwealth Film Censor, last week passed this film for distribution in Australia. It may well be that for mature audiences there is nothing wrong with that. I suppose that ultimately some television modified version of the  The Warriors  will end up on the screens of whichever commercial channel can afford to buy it fastest for the most. This will provide the sort of problem to which we ought to be addressing our minds in this debate. 
The whole issue of violence on the television screen has been explored not only by the Senate Committee report but also in some considerable detail in a book entitled  Children and Television  edited by Ray Brown, which although dealing mainly with American findings at least correlates these to a number of international studies. It again highlights some information about the overall results. Brown, in his chapter 'Television and Violence', states: 
The overall results indicated that children who were adjudged to be initially somewhat more aggressive became significantly more aggressive as a result of viewing the  Batman  and  Superman  cartoons. On the other hand, the children who viewed twelve episodes of - 
A program interestingly called- 

 Misteroger's 
 Neighbourhood became significantly more cooperative, willing to share toys and to help other children. 
This evidence is repeated in a considerable number of controlled experiments. Indeed, attention was drawn to it in the report of the United States Surgeon General. The book continues:   . . the Surgeon General's Scientific Advisory Committee on Television and Social Behaviour (1972) summarised its interpretation of this point as follows: 
Thus, there is a convergence of the fairly substantial experimental evidence for short-run causation of aggression among some children by viewing violence on the screen and the much less certain evidence from field studies that extensive violence viewing precedes some long-run manifestations of aggressive behaviour. 
The matter has also been studied in some depth by the eminent psychologist Hans Eysenck. In the book by Eysenck and  Nias  entitled  Sex, Violence and the Media  a great deal of statistical evidence was given about this matter. It states: 
The evidence is fairly unanimous that aggressive acts new to the subject's repertoire of responses - 
We should bear that in mind when talking about children-  as well as acts already established, can be evoked by the viewing of violent scenes portrayed on film, TV or in the theatre. 
He goes on to make the plea: 
Our first recommendation will not come as a surprise to anyone who has read thus far; it is to the effect that makers of film and TV programmes, producers of theatre plays and others concerned with the portrayal of violence should show more social responsibility than they have done so far. 
Finally, rather than let it be said that my view on this subject is entirely one-eyed, I turn to the presentation of some contrary evidence which was adduced by  Alasdair Clayre  in the article printed in the British Broadcasting Corporation magazine the  Listener  on 28 December 1972. Clayre quoting Greenberg and others, put forward this proposition: 
I think it's quite possible that over a long-run period of exposure to aggression, either in television or any other medium or in real life, one builds up a tolerance for aggression. 
I am not altogether sure what he means by tolerance for aggression but if he means accepting aggression as part of the normal routine - 
-I would not have thought that it is the normal routine even in this place- it is certainly something to be substantially avoided. It is interesting to see a very detailed study by a German psychologist by the name of  Himmelweit  in a book entitled  Television and the Child  in which she wrote: 
There is undoubtedly unease among the public and among the informed public about the possible effect of a continuous diet of violence. Some of it is real and some of it is fictional. The real cannot be controlled, and I would argue that the violence of the real should be very clearly shown. I would even argue against what control exists at present. 
They are the sorts of attitudes which have to be viewed sceptically when dealing with the regulation of children's television in Australia. The article by Clayre goes on to deal with the responses of young children. It states: 
I asked a six year old boy what he liked about Star Trek: 
There's all monsters in it. They destroy things and they've got powerful things on them. They break in people's houses. Some of the monsters take people away and tie them up. I get my soldiers out. I've got two tanks which fire bullets, and I knock my soldiers down as monsters. 
A six-year old Yorkshire boy: 
I like soldiers better than cowboys and Indians in war films, where they bomb Germans up. I like where tanks come. I like it in Ireland, where they bomb 'em up. 
I suppose that these are responses that one might expect in this day and age. They are certainly not responses that one would want to encourage. 
Television plays a vital role in the process of socialisation as far as young children are concerned. Norman Morris, in his book  Television's Child,  puts the responsibility of the broadcasters in the following terms: 
Television network and station officials should not allow on the air commercials to take advantage of children by deliberately confusing reality and fantasy. The dishonest selling strategem of sliding from program material into the commercial without delineation must be ended. 
Historically, decision makers in children's television have been programming officials who have had little understanding of the psychological and emotional needs of their young audiences. If children's television is to emerge completely from the dark ages, its decision makers will have to be officials who understand and like children and executives who do not simply mouth the opinions of solely conscious rating programmers. 
The views expressed by Morris are by no means his alone. I think that the survey printed in the book,  Children in front of the small screen,  by Grant Noble in which he deals with the reaction of groups of children whom he calls 'conformist boys', 'rebel boys' and 'problem boys', make an interesting comparison. Of the conformist boys he says: 
These are boys who rest easy in the present and thus seek out programs which show them likely future social roles, programs which show successful young men and things they might do in the future. 
When talking about the rebel boys, he says: 
They recognise only one character and he is predictably the lone hero who represents urban man presenting himself on a variety of undefined social stages. 
Rejection of parental standards leads to an equal rejection of family serials, but the strain experienced in managing such an identity results not only in a compulsion to view lone heroes, even though each episode is self-contained, but also in fairly frequent loss of identity when attending to a variety of media. 
When talking about the problem boys he says: 
When you read the questionnaires of problem boys, you immediately begin to feel sorry for them. These are boys who say they watch anything on the television when lonely and to make time pass. These are boys who cannot stand to miss programs and literally in some instances whose only friends and parents are television characters. 
These are the sorts of problems to which greater attention has to be directed in this country. There are very useful roles for television to play in this regard. 
I go back to another article in the Media Information Publication,  Media and the Child.  It was written by Grant and Elizabeth Noble and is entitled 'A Study of Teenagers' Uses and Gratifications of the Happy Days Show',  Happy Days  being one of the more successful American domestic comedy situation programs on Australian television. Their final conclusions are very important. They say: 
Finally, and most importantly , we found some fascinating results which demonstrate to us that migrants in Australia use the mass media in order to become socialised into Australian culture . . . even three years from now, we find migrants see that they will then be more like Ralph and Potsie - 
Ralph and Potsie being a couple of the characters in  Happy Days:   . . than second and third generation Australians, even though they think by then they will be accepted by their peer groups. It was after all Park . . . when writing about the role of the mass media in helping waves of American immigrants to settle, who said the mass media offered to the immigrant 'a window on the larger world outside the narrow courts of the immigrant community in which he has been compelled to live'. Even imported television shows, we believe perform precisely this function in Australia today. 
Therefore the ability to use this tool either for great good or for great ill is presented very starkly to us. A commentator writing in an article entitled 'TV for Kiddies. Truth, Goodness, Beauty- &amp; a Little Bit of Brainwash', made the following remarks relating to parents: 
But it is our only ethical choice. Unless we teach our children wisely, our society is only 20 years from savagery. Perhaps we are the same distance- one generation- from a more civilised world. Television can help propel us in either direction. 
I mentioned earlier the portrayal of unrealistic sex roles on television. On that particular section I would commend very strongly the comments made in  Senator Davidson's  report. 
In fact there are three specific recommendations in  Senator Davidson's  report which I support very strongly and to which I wish to draw attention. On page 160 of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts this recommendation is put: 
That there be no advertising of any form during the screening of programs designed for pre-school children. 
When asked what his reaction to that sort of recommendation was, the General Manager of Channel 7 in Sydney,  Mr Ted  Thomas, when appearing before the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal said that he would 'go round the twist' if he had to eliminate various advertising categories in prime time viewing. Obviously the same applies to the control of television advertising during the period of children's television. Yet in the gallup poll which I previously cited, 77 per cent of those polled said that commercials should be banned from programs designed for preschool children. I believe that the Tribunal now has a responsibility to act on that recommendation and to take cognisance of the fact that such a recommendation is supported. 
Let me quote again from Grant Noble's book. With regard to the advertising of products during children's television time, he said: 
I can think of few reasons why broadcasting should be regarded as a profit-making activity and not as a public service. 
He may have considerable debate on that point. I do not necessarily accept that as a first premise. He goes on: 
In modern industrial societies where individuals necessarily lead fragmented and discontinuous lives we need information about our fellow men as much as we need water. In the village that information was free and readily available; in industrial societies we must be prepared to spend our affluence on public service broadcasting so that we can once again understand the nature of the society in which we live. I, for one, am not prepared to cost the price of alienation. 
I think that he is quite correct in drawing our attention to that point as far as children's television is concerned. On page 158 of the Senate Standing Committee report appears this second recommendation: 
That there be no transmission of programs between the hours of 6 a.m. and 9 a.m. on weekdays during school terms and that the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal take the necessary action to implement this recommendation in accordance with its powers under the Act to determine the hours of transmission of all commercial television stations. 
As far as public reaction to that is concerned, the same gallup poll indicated that most people want early morning television banned on school days. The figure given for those in favour of that proposal was 62 per cent. One of the witnesses appearing before the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, Patricia Edwards of the Epping Public School, wrote a letter which was included in the submission as follows: 
Increasingly we become aware of how tired chilren are. It is common to see them yawning and heavy-eyed as early as 9 a.m.- once considered prime teaching time. 
That is a second recommendation of this Senate Committee to which the Broadcasting Tribunal should very closely turn its attention. 
The third matter that was indicated by the Senate Committee to which I make some reference occurs on pages 62 and 63 of that report in which the Committee recommends a very substantial increase in the amount of research to be undertaken in this field. Paragraph 6.48 reads in part: 
The Committee therefore recommends that the legislation establishing the broadcasting information office should provide for the following: 
It goes on to describe the son of work that ought to be taken up by that particular office. 
There is present in Australia at the moment a most important, significant and valuable organisation called Media Information Australia. It is under the chairmanship and general direction of Professor Henry Mayer of the University of Sydney, a well known expert on the Australian media. That organisation publishes a number of compelling and interesting studies on the Australian media, its ownership, its control, its resources, the nature of programs and the effect of programs on children. As I have said, its special issue, which was published this month to mark the International Year of the Child, draws together most of the valuable Australian and overseas work done on children and television. I have said, similarly, that the article by Eysenck and Nias is of some relevance on this point. In a substantial comment about research they say: 
The history of research in this field has left us entirely disenchanted with the activities of either governments and their nominees, or commercial undertakings and their representatives, in relation to television research. Neither group seems to be concerned with the facts, with truth, or with the possible consequences of coming to a wrong decision. Political and commercial expediency seems to take precedence over scientific requirements; we have  amply  documented these strictures in previous chapters, and will not do so again here. 
They make this other important point, which is important especially in a chamber such as this: 
A further recommendation, or perhaps we should call it a plea, is to  cease le regard the battle between puritans and libertarians as one between political right and left. 
It is vital that this Parliament, this community, develop an attitude towards the regulation of broadcasting and particularly broadcasting as it affects children, without any consideration involving party politics. A report entitled Television and Human Behaviour; the Research Horizon, Future and Present' by Comstock and Lindsey indicates that the following should be areas of immediate concern for research officers and organisations connected with television: 1.  Television and socialization of young persons; 
Prosocial  behaviour; Role socialization; Political socialization; Antisocial behaviour; Consumer socialization; Cognitive learning; Television and other agents of socialization; Television viewing patterns.  it is incumbent upon us to follow up these significant and important recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee in regard to these matters. I believe that television has an enormous ability to educate and to influence. I refer to the Harry Butler type of program, to  The Sullivans  type of program, to the Bill Peach type of program, which bring to Australian children a better understanding of their own country, of their own social mores, and make important contributions to the development of a homogeneous Australian society. They play a role in establishing what I believe are proper community standards, proper information about this nation and, as I have said earlier, from the work of the Nobles, they play a particularly important role in helping migrant children to understand and to adapt. 
I suppose, in conclusion, it is best to state what is one 's approach to children in this sense. I am delighted to be able to go back to a political and social philosopher for whom I have the highest regard, John Locke, who, in writing about children, said: 
A child 's brain is a fire to be ignited not a pot to be filled. 
That is the sort of attitude that is necessary that people with the responsibility to develop and broadcast programs for children should bear in mind. Unless the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal is prepared to exercise those statutory powers that it has to bring about an improvement in children's television; unless it is prepared to look again at the recommendation of the 1953 royal commission that some form of legal compulsion for better and more adequate children's television should be considered; I believe that the tribunal will have proved itself to be a waste of the time and effort of people who hoped that public participation in the shaping of broadcasting standards and attitudes would bring about a response such that legitimate commercial considerations would be married with the desires of the community and the right that the community has that the public airways should serve legitimate public needs. 
The report of the Senate Standing Committee is most important. It deserves the closest attention of the Government and the most sympathetic consideration of those who are in a position to give effect to its substantial and highly praiseworthy recommendations. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Has the Minister for Education seen the editorial in today's  Australian Financial Review  which describes the report of the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training as being below standard and having room for improvement? Is he aware that the editorial alleges that the thrust of the Williams Committee's report will guarantee the further decline of the education system in Australia, in particular of the universities, and t licit lt describes this rs port us being irrelevant te the real issues of education and training? Is he aware that this view has been expressed by a large number of people since the presentation last week of the report of the Williams inquiry? Does the Minister believe that it is a wellinformed view? 
My question also is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it correct that in February the Australian Bureau of Statistics estimated the number of males looking for full time work as 229,100 and that at the same time the Department of Social Security reported that it was paying unemployment benefit to 242,727 males? Is it true that several tens of thousands of genuinely unemployed people are for various reasons not eligible for the unemployment benefit? If it is, how does the situation arise in which the Department of Social Security appears to be paying unemployment benefit to more people than there are unemployed? 

That the Senate calls upon the Government to implement, in full, and at an early date, the recommendations contained in Whales and Whaling, the Report of the Independent Inquiry conducted by the Honourable  Sir Sydney  Frost, presented to the Prime Minister on 1 December 1978. 
Before commencing my remarks, I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the recommendations made in  Sir Sydney  Frost's report. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

ATTACHMENT A 
Recommendations 
Australia should oppose the continuance of whaling. While the Whaling Act 1960 remains in its present form, any application for a whaling licence should be refused, with the exception of a licence to take, in appropriate circumstances, a limited number of dolphins live for display purposes, and only in special circumstances should a permit be issued to take any cetacea for scientific purposes. 
Whaling by other nations should be prohibited within the Australian 200-mile fishing zone. If Australia decides to include waters off the Australian Antarctic Territory in this zone, a policy of prohibition of whaling should also be pursued in these waters. 
At the International Whaling Commission meeting to be held in December 1978, Australia should seek to classify both male and female sperm whales in Division 5 as Protection Stocks and to amend the catch limits presently set for this Division to zero. Furthermore, Australia should press for caution in the setting of other catch limits at that meeting. 
Consideration should be given to the repeal of the Whaling Act 1960 and its replacement by new legislation directed to the protection of cetacea, and if thought desirable other marine mammals, along the lines of the marine mammal protection legislation of the United States and New Zealand. 
The import of whale products or goods containing whale products should be banned in Australia from 1 January 1981. 
Australia should continue to be a member of and support the International Whaling Commission as the most appropriate body to be responsible for conservation of whales internationally. Australia should support current efforts to revise the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling 1 946. In particular Australia should seek to extend the Commission 's charter to the conservation of all cetacea. It should also support increased liaison and cooperation between the Commission and other international bodies with responsibilities affecting cetacea. 
Australia should seek to achieve a worldwide ban on whaling. In working towards this Australia should propose a more cautious approach in setting catch limits and a greater emphasis on the conservation of whales by the International Whaling Commission. Although seeking to bring an end to whaling, Australia should take into account any adjustment required by the special needs of particular countries, such as the requirements of some nations of whale meat for protein, and subsistence catches by some local communities. 
Both in its own planning and in international discussions on the management of marine resources Australia should ensure that any implications for whales are given consideration. In particular, any proposals to exploit krill or other Antarctic marine resources should be developed with consideration of the whole ecosystem and examined to see that the potential recovery of depleted baleen whale stocks is not prejudiced. 
The Commonwealth Government should promote research on whales by Australian scientists and research institutions. lt should provide funds at no less than present levels for this work. Priority should be given to: 
the monitoring of the sperm, humpback and right whale stocks off Australia, including their abundance and matters affecting their recovery in numbers and their success in breeding; 
the refinement of techniques for whale stock assessment and ecosystem modelling, especially while any whaling continues; 
the monitoring of Australian strandings of cetacea and the preservation and study of the specimens thus provided. 
The continued Australian involvement in the International Whaling Commission should emphasise particularly participation in the Scientific Committee so that results of Australian research are promptly incorporated in that Committee's deliberations, and to ensure that due scientific attention is given to the various criticisms of current assessment procedures. 
-The issue of the Government's response to the inquiry into whaling is one that is of great concern not only to people who are interested in general matters of conservation but also to those who are interested in the whaling industry and whales as such. I do not know how many honourable senators have had the opportunity actually to see large numbers of whales in their natural habitat. I have certainly had that pleasure and it is one which I think one, having had it, would never forget. I have also stood like some sort of latter day Jonah inside the skeleton of a great blue whale in the British Museum, although I am reminded that the  Bible  says that Jonah was swallowed not by a whale but by a great fish'. 
Perhaps one of the important things that has made whaling such an issue of importance is that whales are not simply fish. They are in fact mammals, and in many ways show an affinity and a kinship with the human species, which is rare in any animal. We know that from the 12th century onwards the Basque fishermen of Spain have been hunting and taking the North Atlantic right whale, and that the association in myth and legend between man and whale and the related cetacea species of dolphin and porpoise has been a long and enduring one. 
The independent inquiry was established after an enormous amount of pressure was built up through the community and translated in petitions and resolutions coming before the Senate and the House of Representatives. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  first indicated in November 1977 his intention to establish such an inquiry. In a statement on 20 March 1978 he said: 
Many thousands of Australians and men, women and children throughout the world have long felt deep concern about the activities of whalers. 
In response to this concern, the inquiry was established and the inquiry reported on 1 December 1978. I think it is important to indicate that whereas many people were originally concerned that the report would have serious ramifications for the Cheynes Beach Whaling Co. and for the Albany district of Western Australia in fact because of the decision of the company, prior to the report actually being presented, to close down its operations we are able to discuss a report about future policy in whaling matters which does not involve making an economic decision about the future of the Albany district or about the position of the Cheynes Beach Whaling Co. 
There is certainly no doubt that the world's whale species have been plundered and that the whale continues to be in danger. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table from page 34 of  Sir Sydney  Frost's report indicating the size of whale populations at various times. 
Leave granted. 
The table reads as follows- 

<graphic href="080232197903292_96_3.jpg"></graphic>

-It will be seen from that table and indeed seen from the Red Book of the International Conservation Movement that whale species in general are still regarded as being in considerable danger. It will be one of my charges that one of the great faults and one of the great culpabilities of the International Whaling Commission is that it did almost nothing to prevent that from occurring. It is a charge that has to be laid at the feet of the Australian fisheries authorities that they permitted this situation to occur and also permitted protected species to be killed. I refer specifically to dolphins, which are protected under the legislation of this country. It was reported in the  Daily Telegraph  of 3 1 July of last year that a large number of people have been reported on several occasions as being in small pleasure craft in St Vincents Gulf hunting porpoises wilh rifles, killing reasonable numbers and allowing them to settle dead on the seabed, and that the fisheries authorities in that State and of the Commonwealth have done nothing to stop this particularly barbaric slaughter. 
It has been said- quite wrongly- that there are no substitutes for products derived from the whale and that as a result the whaling industry should be allowed to continue. Those remarks can be shown to be demonstrably false. In the  Bulletin  of 28 February of this year, under the heading 'The marvellous bean that will save the whale', there is a lengthy discussion about the development of the jojoba bean, which is a native of some very dry climates, particularly the south-west of the United States and Mexico, and which is now being grown in commercial quantities in Mexico, the southwest of the United States and the Negev Desert. I learned from that article that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation's Division of Plant Industry has been conducting experiments with some considerable hope that the materials derived in terms of lubricants and waxes from that bean will go a long way towards replacing the whale products that have previously been used. For instance, one can see on page 126 of  Sir Sydney  Frost's report that the learned judge said that it was quite clear that no difficulties would arise if the products directly derived from the whale were no longer available. He went on to say that it would be possible for Australia, if it wished, to indicate after a two-year adjustment period that the importation of sperm oil, spermaceti and other whale products would be prohibited as has already occurred in the United States and elsewhere.  His  principal conclusion on this matter was that the oil from the jojoba shrub is a suitable substitute for sperm oil in almost all applications. 
The second great lie that has been told about the need to continue the whaling industry is that the Japanese need whale meat to eat. In a paper produced by the Japanese Whaling Association the claim is made that whale meat is indispensable for the Japanese. Yet the lie is given to that in an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 24 June 1977 in which it is indicated from official Japanese statistics that the amount of whale meat consumed amounts to only 0.33 per cent of the Japanese diet. Similarly it has been said that if we do not take part in commercial whaling operations in the area other nations will simply move in and take our share of the quota. That would not be true if, as the report suggests, we were to take action within the 200-mile limit of Australia to prohibit other people from taking whales. In the  Audubon  magazine of January 1977 it is clearly indicated that implementation of the United States 200-mile fisheries limit next summer will deal a crippling blow to the north Pacific, Japanese and Soviet whaling fleets. 
I have said previously that the International Whaling Commission cannot be trusted. It cannot be trusted in the proper and efficient management of whales. Indeed,  Sir Sydney  Frost, on pages 90 and 9 1 of his report, said: 
If the International Whaling Commission had adopted a more prudent approach earlier in its history, whale stocks might now have been sufficiently larger. As it is they have been excessively depleted. 
He went on to say: 
The gravest indictment of the International Whaling Commission since its beginning is that it has presided over the decimation of blue and humpback whale stocks and the severe depletion of most fin and sei and some male sperm whale stocks. 
In an article in  Nature  magazine of 23 November 1978 it is indicated that, once again, the International Whaling Commission, reacting to the advice of its own scientific committee, has been doing too little too late, and that attitude has persisted for some considerable time. In the administration of the International Whaling Commission there are the most notorious loopholes. For instance, it was originally believed that there would be no killing of Bryde 's whales during the current Antarctic whaling season; yet the Japanese have granted themselves, under one of the IWC loopholes, a 'scientific permit' to kill 240 whales during the course of this season, despite the IWC's having a formal zero quota for that whale during that period. Quite clearly, the International Whaling Commission cannot be trusted to do its job properly in that regard. 
There are some indications that the Australian Government's attitude over a period has become backsliding. In 1962 the Liberal-Country Party Government's representative at the Stockholm conference on the human environment voted in favour of a 10-year moratorium on the taking of whales. By 1976, however, the International Whaling Commission meetings in London saw Australia and South Africa supporting the whaling nations of Japan and the Soviet Union in obtaining higher quotas. For instance, despite the fact that the International Whaling Commission suggested a quota of 287 for Area 1, the Japanese moved an amendment to raise it to 299. Australia supported that amendment. For Area 2 the scientific committee recommended a quota of 764. The Japanese moved for 1,369. Australia supported them. For Area 8 the scientific committee recommended a quota of 826. The Japanese suggested a quota of 3,188. Australia supported them. The  New Scientist  was moved to describe South Africa and Australia as the only allies' of the whaling nations. That was one indication that Australia's attitude was slipping somewhat. In a document put out in June 1977 over the signature of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  as a background paper on whaling, the Minister said: 
A ten year moratorium on all whaling is unrealistic because any endangered species could not recover in such a short time. 
Four years previously the Australian Government had voted for such a moratorium. On 22 March of this year the Melbourne  Sun  reported about accusations by American conservationists that an Australian delegation to last year's International Whaling Commission in Tokyo had sabotaged efforts to ban whaling. That can be seen from what happened at that whaling conference to the low quotas that previously had been decided. For instance, the quota for North Pacific sperm whales, which had previously been reduced from 7,200 to 763, was then restored to a higher figure of 6,444 by the vote of the Commission when reviewing the quotas. Australia did nothing to stop that increased quota from taking place. I think that that is a disgraceful attitude, given what had been said in the public debate about the whaling industry in Australia. 
I believe that the view of the Australian people that whaling should cease is overwhelming. It has ceased but that, frankly, is not sufficient. The latest Gallup poll on this matter indicated that 66 per cent of Australians believe that whaling ought to stop. It is not just that people are upset, as they ought to be, about the barbaric and disgusting way in which whales are killed. These sensitive and intelligent creatures are subjected to harpooning by canisters that then explode inside them, sending metal fragments reaching through their bodies until they die of blood loss or septicaemia and they can take 45 minutes to die if this thing does not discharge properly. That is what the Government condoned in all the years that it permitted the Cheynes Beach setup to operate. It permitted the Cheynes Beach setup to kill whales in that fashion. It is not just that one can see, for instance, in the January 1979 issue of the  National Geographic  a most brilliant article about the song pattern and speech pattern of the whales. There is even a recording provided free in that journal of the whale songs and their extreme complexity. It is not just that one can turn to volume two of  Sir Sydney  Frost's report in which the various scientific papers are presented, including a paper on the intelligence of the whale; it deals with the brain size of the whale. That paper is presented by  Mr Peter  J. Morgane in which he says: 
Nevertheless, the preliminary evidence is such as to make us firmly believe that the whale brain more closely resembles that of the human and higher primates in terms of cytologically distinguishable areas. 
He goes on to say: 
A meeting ground of minds across species would indeed be a remarkable event- in some ways more profound than putting men on the moon. Such intelligent interlock of minds and thought and feelings would mean that man no longer is a dominant being served by all other living forms depending on his wishes. He would then begin, in a sense, to 'share' space and time and to see into the life and mind of his fellow  creatures. What significance this would have in changing the present view of his relations with the rest of living forms! Man might then better appreciate that all living forms are interlinked and related. To destroy any forms interrupts nature 's balance to the eventual detriment of man. 

 -Yes. Sir Sydney Frost in the first volume of the report refers in glowing terms to  Mr Morgane's  paper and recommends everybody to read and study it, while giving the necessary cautions about taking an excessively anthropomorphic attitude, establishing human characteristics in animals that no matter what we think of them are not yet human although loving. Before turning to the particular recommendations which I have already had incorporated in  Hansard,  I turn firstly to volume 1 of the report in which at page 205  Sir Sydney  writes as follows: 
This Inquiry has then reached the conclusion that Australia's policy should be changed, and that Australia should oppose the continuance of whaling, both within Australia and also abroad. Whales are migratory animals and are the heritage of all nations. We have a national and an international responsibility to preserve them for future generations. 
We have been robbing future generations with the policy that this Government, the International Whaling Commission, the Japanese and the Soviets have adopted as far as whaling is concerned for going on the best part of 30 years of the operation of the Whaling Commission and its predecessors. We have been in a situation in which a valuable natural resource has not only been squandered and destroyed but also in some areas has been brought to the point where it is close to extinction. The theory of the maximum sustainable yield and the new management procedures which the Whaling Commission has made so much about have been thoroughly discredited. The International Conference on Environmental Matters in Bergen in 1976 debunked the scientific evidence which was supposed to have been the underpinning of the maximum sustainable yield theory. Yet that continued to be the practice of the Whaling Commission during the next couple of years. The new management procedures that were introduced some years later have not been better in any substantial fashion. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, it is certainly true that these are emotive subjects. It is certainly true that they are subjects that excite a great deal of debate. I refer to Project Jonah, which I believe to have been one of the most responsible community groups ever to approach me and I think ever to approach other honourable senators. The way in which the people working on that project went about establishing their case, explaining their case, appeared before the independent inquiry, presented their case and persuaded the inquiry of the validity of their case is an exercise in real participatory democracy on the one hand, in that people who are interested and informed can bring recommendations to the Government; and a real outpouring of concern for natural resources, the environment and conservation on the other hand. 
It will be to the lasting discredit of this Government if given that and given the recommendations that are made it does not act. I summarise the principal recommendations as follows: That Australia should oppose the continuance of whaling; that whaling by other nations should be prohibited within the Australian 200-mile fishing zone; that consideration should be given to the repeal of the Whaling Act 1960 and its replacement with legislation better able to protect all forms of marine mammal along United States lines; that the importation of whale products or goods containing whale products should be banned in Australia from 1 January 1981; that Australia should seek to achieve a world wide ban on whaling; that both in its planning and in international discussions on the management of marine resources Australia should ensure that any implications for whales are given serious consideration; and that the Commonwealth Government should promote research on whales by Australian scientists and research institutes. 
This is all the more important when we consider the amount of control which Australia has not only over its own enormous coastal waters but also over the coastal waters adjacent to the Antarctic where a lot of poaching by the Japanese and the Soviets and the non-IWC whaling nations, of which there are seven, goes on and goes on without restrictions. If whales some day are gone, also will be gone the opportunity to learn how these warm-blooded social animals survive in cold seas, communicate with song and navigate across thousands of miles of ocean with no road map and no lunch. Gone too will be the poetry, the symbol that whales provide for us. By respecting their right to live and to co-exist peacefully with us there is evidence that we can find harmony with our environment, with our fellow creatures and perhaps with ourselves. 
I wish to comment on clause 5 of the Bill and, as  Senator Button  did, try to encompass in my remarks all three of the proposed amendments. It has been said in a number of places, editorially in particular, that this definition of subversion is inherently unsatisfactory; that it is so broad that it could be applied to virtually any demonstration or protest march in Australia. For instance, on 19 March the  Sydney Morning 

 Herald expressed concern that it might apply to all environmental and other groups that were opposed to uranium mining for trying to obstruct an activity that was carried on by various mining corporations which had agreements with the Government or were participating with it. I think we have to draw a far more precise line in terms of seeking to interpret - 
Consideration interrupted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I think that the Prime Minister has ministerial responsibility for the Australian Science and Technology Council. Does the Minister agree that one of the key elements in future economic progress is the extent to which business in Australia undertakes realistic programs of research and development? Is he aware that the ASTEC paper presented last week on direct funding of basic research indicates that between 1974 and 1976-77 business investment in research and development fell by SO per cent in real terms and that in areas called, curiosity motivated and strategic mission oriented research, it fell by more than 80 per cent? Is he aware that ASTEC regards this as a dramatic collapse? What incentives is the Government prepared to consider to encourage greater business investment in research and development, either by the contracting out of work where possible or by the provision of taxation incentives? 
I wish to say how much I welcome the statement which the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  has put down this evening. I know that many honourable senators on this side of the chamber have been concerned with this matter.  Senator Missen  and I have both had a considerable amount of contact with the people from Project Jonah throughout the course of" this inquiry and prior to the decision which has now been made. I very much welcome the statement which the Government has put down this evening. It is a very important statement, a very great victory for the whales and all conservationists. In the light of that fact I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I join other honourable senators in supporting this motion moved by the Senate condemning the execution of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. He certainly was one of the most distinguished people to emerge in the whole of the Indian subcontinent during the time that he served in the government of Field Marshal Ayub Khan and later in the government of General Yahya Khan. He came to power as a result of the division of his country along essentially racial lines. He has been condemned by the Supreme Court of Pakistan, again along essentially racial lines. It seems to me that murder whenever it occurs, political murder in particular, is something which should strike terror into the hearts of all of us. But when the political murder is condoned and promoted by a government it becomes a matter that concerns the international community in a far more direct sense. 
I do not think it is necessary to go into the details of the trial, the way in which the state's evidence was produced and the fact that a person in Great Britain has confessed now in fact to having been the person responsible for the murder of the person over whose death  Mr Bhutto  has been condemned. They are extraneous matters. I believe that this Parliament- and members of this Parliament- will have to face up to this sort of situation not only so far as the particular case of  Mr Bhutto  is concerned but also to the fact that the execution of deposed political leaders is becoming a more and more common practice. The execution of Menderes was once regarded as an isolated incident. We have now seen in Iran the terrifying way in which  Mr Hoveida  and other members of the former administration have been condemned by that government. We know from the Amnesty International report on China the extent to which political executions of former political opponents still take place there. This Parliament has to be sensitive in this particular instance and in all instances to the way in which persons coming to power, very often by means that are illegal or regarded as improper, then use the judiciary, the military and the means of force at the disposal of the state to deal with their political opponents and to silence them in the most complete way possible. 
I join with other honourable senators in deploring the way in which  Mr Bhutto  has been judicially murdered. I regret to say that I believe the Senate may well find itself facing motions like this in increasing numbers and of an increasing frequency. It is perhaps one of the occasions that draws to our attention as free people in a free society the values and the worthwhile nature of the free society in which we are able to live, protected in our political activity from this sort of revenge. This execution is a matter greatly to be condemned. It is a blot on the world community. 
It is something that all Australians should protest about on this occasion and indeed on any other occasion when the judiciary of a country is used to exact terrifying revenge upon people whose only crime in the long run may have been to hold different political opinions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Last night, when the debate was adjourned, I was addressing some remarks to the proposal advanced by  Senator Button  to leave out the word 'ultimately' as it appears in paragraph (a) of sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause 5 of the Bill. I had previously, in relation to the whole of clause 5, made the comment that a number of editorials throughout the country had quite unfairly portrayed clause 5 as one that could be applied against any demonstration or protest march- any environmental rally or peaceful anti-uranium demonstration. I was pointing out that if one reads the whole of clause 5 it becomes quite clear, since the important criteria to be used in determining whether acts of subversion have taken place concern the use of 'force or violence or other unlawful acts' for the purpose of overthrowing or destroying the constitutional government of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory', that those editorial allegations were nonsensical. 
Turning specifically to the proposal to leave out the word 'ultimately', it seems to me that there is a considerable case for saying that it should remain. If one examines Divisions 1 and 4 of Part IV of the Bill, which are set out at pages 14 and 21 respectively and which deal with the general problems of creating and assessing security reports, one finds that in many cases attention may have to be paid to activities which, at the particular point of time when they occur, may in themselves not result in any degree of violence or, indeed, incitement to violence, unlawful act or use of force or violence, but nevertheless have the potential therefor. It is important that the wording of this provision should be sufficient that records may be kept in such a fashion as to give advance warning about the sorts of activities that may well result. Obviously, a subversive activity will be one which from time to time may lead at some distant point in time- it need not be a particularly distant point in time- to the use of force, which is otherwise regarded as the criterion for the designation of a subversive activity under clause 5. 
For instance, some activities of the Ananda Marga movement which, at this moment in time, may not involve an intent to use force or violence, may ultimately lead thereto. One has only to consider the kind of allegations that have been made about the Hilton bombing or, indeed, the allegations currently being made in regard to the attempted murder of  Mr Robert  Cameron in Sydney. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has found himself in the situation of being criticised from time to time for not following the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope 's report. On this occasion he finds himself criticised for following those recommendations. 
-I have no doubt that it will, but in order not to be too selective in the way in which one approaches this matter, it is proper to review what  Mr Justice  Hope said. Certainly at page 4 1 of Volume 1 of the fourth report he uses the phrase 'or are intended ultimately to involve' which has been followed in drafting the Bill. A number of speakers have said that  Mr Justice  Hope did not appear to have advanced very much reason for using that criterion or definition, but one can find this if one examines Volume 2 of the fourth report, and looks at the draft submission of the United States Department of Justice and the testimony of the  Hon.  Edward H. Levi, the United States Attorney-General, to the United States House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary, Sub-committee on Civil and Constitutional Rights, in February 1976. On page 101 onwards  Mr Levi  appears to have quite substantially influenced the decision of  Mr Justice  Hope, and  His  Honour so indicates in paragraph 66 at page 40 of Volume 1. He talks about the ultimate problem that may arise. He speaks, for instance, about 'activities "which involve or will involve ' ' the use of force or violence ' and the violation of federal law. He goes on to talk about matters in which there is 'probable cause' to believe that these sorts of things will occur, and writes specifically of the question of the immediacy of the threat or perceived threat that exists because of particular subversive activities. I believe that basically the use of the word 'ultimately' in paragraph (a) of clause 5 (1) is justified on the grounds that I have attempted to set forth; also, not only on the recommendation specifically made by  Mr Justice  Hope but also on the material upon which he has relied in arriving at that recommendation. For those reasons I support the retention of the word 'ultimately' in the clause and reject the amendment proposed by the Opposition. 
I would like to make a few obervations on the comments made by the honourable senator. I will resist the temptation to say the honourable schoolboy on this particular occasion. The four sub-clauses contained in proposed new clause 7A, moved by the Opposition, provide for four different areas in respect of which the Leader of the Opposition should be informed about matters of security. As  Senator Button  has said, the first of those is dealt with already in proposed new clause 20a which has been circulated in the name of the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack).  I think that entirely picks up that point. Similarly, sub-clause (4) of proposed new clause  7A  is picked up by the proposed amendment to clause 92 (2). Again, that is contained in the list of amendments circulated by the Attorney-General. But there is one substantial difference- that is, whereas the Opposition's amendment in proposed new clause  7A  (4) simply says that the report referred to shall be furnished to the Leader of the Opposition, I think the Attorney's amendment goes a little further by adding the stipulation that it is the duty of the Leader of the Opposition to treat it as secret. 
-I would have thought that one of the problems that arises throughout the whole of the proposition advanced in the Opposition 's proposed new clause  7A  is that there are obligations imposed upon Executive Councillors and Ministers of the Crown in dealing with matters of security which do not lie equally with the Leader of the Opposition when he is dealing with matters of security. I would have thought that the proposal of the AttorneyGeneral therefore is one which is more conducive to a belief, not only within the Parliament and not only within the general run of people who have some concern, that there should be a proper treatment of security matters. It also is one which I would have thought would make any Director-General- not just the current Director-General- more likely to provide the Leader of the Opposition frankly and fully with the sort of information that the Opposition's amendment is seeking to provide him with. 
-I would have thought that the whole concept of Ministers being members of the Executive Council and the whole of the way in which- I am sure the honourable senator knows this- the Westminster system of Cabinet government operates would have been sufficient to have provided for that point. As far as sub-clause (2) of the Opposition's proposed new clause 7a is concerned, I note that  Senator Button  not only spoke about providing the Leader of the Opposition with information about warrants being issued but also referred to a practice of a former Attorney-General to make details available of the number of warrants that had been issued during any particular period of time. I know that the Attorney-General also has received representations on this matter from the Privacy Committee in New South Wales. That body has suggested, among a number of suggestions that it has made and released by way of public statements, that this particular undertaking to make public the details of the number of warrants issued- indeed, the Privacy Committee talks about the specific details of the number of postal articles, the number of telegrams, the breakup by States, the number of telephone conversations and the number of telephone services- should be the subject of some degree of monitoring. 
I believe that a reasonable case has been put that these are the sorts of details which, if provided to a responsible Minister, allow the Minister, the Government and any Cabinet subcommittee on intelligence matters, which is oversighting this legislation, to maintain a fairly comprehensive and accurate watch on precisely what is going on. There is one point throughout the whole of this security legislation on which judgment must be made. There is certainly no objective way of measuring it. In every State it is a subjective judgment. It relates to the extent to which the release of information makes the effective operation of the organisation somehow less effective. It is a point on which honourable senators will find themselves naturally in disagreement. Some people will believe that an annual report, or the details of the number of warrants issued, can be put forward without comment as a simple, raw, statistical figure, and that that will have no impact upon the way in which the organisation will operate, the way in which it is perceived to be operating and its effectiveness for future operation. Equally other honourable senators will feel that that is too much information. The point that arises quite simply is that there is no objective test to say that this much information can be released into the public domain without having any impact upon the operation of the Organisation. One cannot say: This much information is the point at which that impact starts to become of concern to us. 
I will come to that. It is quite clear that if there is no objective way of establishing that measurement then one has to decide who will be charged with making the decision about the amount of information to be released. I believe that under those circumstances, because of the principle upon which our system of government is based one has to expect, one has to be prepared to demand, and one has to be prepared to take, to a large extent on trust, a high degree of integrity from an Attorney-General of the Commonwealth. I am obviously not worried about the integrity of the present AttorneyGeneral. If I were concerned, however, that an Attorney-General, likely to be produced by an Australian Labor Party Government, were likely to be a person without integrity then undoubtedly I would be supporting as wide an application of this clause as possible. I believe that the way in which the democratic system of the Parliament operates means that, by and large, there should be a presumption about the integrity of the first law officer of the Crown. I am perfectly prepared to extend that presumption to Attorneys-General in any future administration, whether it be an administration formed by the parties on this side of the chamber, or formed by the party on the other side of the chamber. It may well be that that judgment is not made by Australian Labor Party senators in relation to the reverse case. But it is one that I make and one that I am happy to leave to the discretion of the Attorney-General. Sub-clause (3) of proposed new clause 7a states: 
The Leader of the Opposition may request the Director-General to inform him as to whether there is in existence any file, dossier or record concerning a particular person and the Director-General shall comply with that request but nothing in this section entitles the Leader of the Opposition to access to any file, dossier or record concerning a particular individual. 
Again this goes very largely to the point I made about the amount of information that can reasonably be released without any damage being done to the effective operation of a security service. I am concerned to a large extent that the number of persons able to obtain that sort of information from the Director-General should be as restricted as possible. It will always be a temptation on the part of any Leader of the Opposition- as indeed it will always be a temptation on the part of any Attorney-General- to go on the occasional fishing expedition to find out whether there is in existence any file, dossier or record. The very fact that a file, dossier or record is in existence may well indicate something about the way in which the Director-General and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation are operating. We should question the extent to which that information should be freely available to anybody who wishes to ask for it. 
As I said in the speech I made during the second reading debate on this legislation, it is important to build as many areas of effective consultation between the Leader of the Opposition and the Government on matters of security. In the proposed amendments of the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  there are at least four of these areas. There is the consultation on the appointment of the Director-General; the consultation proposed in the Attorney-General's amendment on the appointment of the acting director-general; the requirement for regular briefing between the Director-General and the Leader of the Opposition; and access by the Leader of the Opposition to annual reports in terms of proposed new clause 92(2). I understand, similarly, that the Leader of the Opposition was provided with details of  Mr Justice  Hope's inquiry, which were not otherwise made available to members of parliament. I think that that is also an important aspect. I hope that if there were to be any judicial audit, or any similar provision as far as continuing supervision of the work of ASIO is concerned, then the full results of those matters would equally be provided not only to the responsible Minister and the Prime Minister but also to the Leader of the Opposition. 
I hope that honourable senators opposite will take this as a judgment made in good faith. The provisions contained in sub-clauses 2 and 3 of proposed new clause 7a go further, in my subjective judgment, than they ought to go. I appreciate that this is a matter of debate, but I believe that the proposals which the Attorney-General has put forward in the various amendments circulated in his name provide the degree of consultation which is proper. The Opposition amendments provide a degree of consultation of information which I think goes too far. For those reasons I would not be inclined to support those Opposition amendments. 
I commence my remarks by taking the Senate back to the substance of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs entitled 'Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders on Queensland Reserves'. I want to identify the three principal things which are dealt with in this report in terms of the discussion of the matter which was referred to the Committee. I think it is proper to consider that the Committee was asked to examine a particular piece of legislation, namely, the provisions of the legislation empowering Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders who live on reserves in Queensland to manage and control their own affairs and, in particular, a number of specific matters arising under the Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Act 1978. 
The report started out by doing three things. The first thing it did was to make a detailed analysis of section 5 1 (xxvi) of the Constitution, which relates to the Commonwealth's powers to make laws in respect of people of any race for whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws. That is a provision which came within the ambit of Commonwealth powers following the 1 967 Aboriginal powers referendum. The second thing which the Committee did was to make a detailed analysis of the scope and operation of section 51 (xxxi) of the Constitution and, in particular, the guaranteeing of just terms for the compulsory acquisition of property. The third thing the Committee did was to make a detailed analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the piece of legislation to which I have just referred. I think it is important, because they have not been dealt with in any great detail, to turn specifically to the recommendations of the Senate Committee's report, which are to be found in chapter 6. The first recommendation, which appears in paragraph 70, reads: 
The Committee is of the view that the Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Act 1978 clearly falls within the scope of the power conferred upon the Commonwealth Parliament by section 5 1 (xxvi) of the Act: 
The Committee went on, in paragraph 71, to state: 
The Committee considers that the constitutional conception underlying the principles and structure of the legislation are consistent with the proper responsibilities of the Commonwealth. 
The Committee then stated: 
The Committee takes the view that the Act is for practical purposes ineffective as a means of allowing Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders in Queensland to manage and control their own affairs . . . Legislation in this form may possibly be effective in circumstances of co-operation between the Commonwealth and the relevant State Government, but events in Queensland have demonstrated that the legislation can be rendered inoperative by the State Government where co-operation is lacking. 
I shall return later to the question of co-operation with the Queensland Government. Paragraph 73 of the report states: 
The Committee considers that Commonwealth legislation falling short of acquisition of property has some scope for providing Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders to manage and control their own affairs. 
I shall also come back to that later. In its final series of recommendations the Committee stated: 
The Committee accordingly bases its recommendations regarding Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders in Queensland on the assumption that co-operation between the Commonwealth and Queensland is not likely to provide a full and sufficient discharge of Commonwealth obligations to Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders in Queensland and that some unilateral action by the Commonwealth will therefore be likely to be necessary. 
One can see again the presumption of a lack of co-operation between the Commonwealth and Queensland authorities. The Committee continued: 
In cases where the effective management and control of their own affairs by Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders requires the continued occupation of specific lands by those people, the Committee considers that some acquisition of property must form part of the legislative scheme. 
It went on: 
The Committee emphasises the very considerable flexibility enjoyed by the Commonwealth in devising schemes for management and control of their own affairs by Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders- 
Quite clearly the Committee was making the point that its report at no stage stated that acquisition was the only option open to the Commonwealth. Paragraph 77 contains the final recommendation, which reads: 
The Committee recommends that the Commonwealth Parliament legislate to ensure that Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders in Queensland are free to manage and control their own affairs. The Committee does not consider that a single, general statute such as the Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Act 1978, provides the best means of achieving this objective. Instead, the Committee recommends that Parliament enact specific statutes designed to deal with the conditions prevailing in different communities of Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders. The nature and form of any acquisition of property required to re-inforce the self-management scheme, and the type and extent of compensation payable in respect of such acquisition, should then be determined on a case-by-case basis according to the needs of different communities. 
It is important to understand the extent to which the Committee said, firstly, that acquisition was not the only means open to the Commonwealth in terms of dealing with this problem. It is important to understand that the Committee said that a great deal of flexibility existed in the undertakings which the Commonwealth could enter into in order to achieve its stated objectives. I believe that when one analyses the speeches made on this matter by members of the Opposition on Thursday, 22 March 1979 one finds a large number of inaccuracies- I propose to draw attention to them- that were made in order to try to give support to the proposition that was advanced in  Senator Cavanagh  's amendment. The first of these with which I will deal appears at page 939 of  Hansard  of that day.  Senator Cavanagh  said: 
That Government - 
Referring to the Queensland Governmenttook  the control away from the tribal elders in those areas which seemed to be prospering fairly well and placed it under the Queensland Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders Act with complete control going to the bureaucrats in Brisbane under the conditions which permeate throughout Queensland. 
That, quite clearly, was the intention of the Queensland Government when it took the action that it did over the Aurukun and Mornington Island areas. But that intention in fact was not translated into reality because control under the local government framework was in the hands of the shire councils. The communities to which  Senator Cavanagh  was referring were not under the operation of the Aboriginals Act of that State since the revocation of the reserves on 7 April 1978. The next inaccuracy is one that was advanced by  Senator Keeffe  in a rather intemperate speech about the activities of the Queensland 
Government. In the same  Hansard,  at page 94 1 ,  Senator Keeffe  said: 
The Government - 
Again referring to the Queensland Government-  in this case has decreed- I think it was that rather colourful character,  Mr Hinze,  who made the final decision- that there will be a beer canteen at Aurukun. 
He advanced that as a proposition demonstrating the way in which the Queensland authorities were overriding the decisions of the local community on a matter of some sensitivity. It is quite clear that no such decision was made. Indeed  Mr Hinze  and the Queensland authorities made it clear that whether there was to be a beer canteen at Aurukun was a matter solely for the community to decide.  Senator Keeffe,  on the following page, stated: 
legislation provides no security for outstations . . . 
He was referring to those outstations relating to the two communities and yet the leases held by the shires in the local government situation provided complete security for the outstations which in fact continued as a flourishing part of the Aboriginal life in that area. Similarly, on page 943 of the Senate  Hansard,  Senator Keeffe  is reported as saying: 
Roger Pettit, incidentally, was the only white candidate. He was lucky to get six nominations and he got them only after people had been stood over. I gather that that was widely approved by the Federal Government. 
No evidence whatsoever for that has been presented and nobody has demonstrated at any stage that anybody in the Federal Government widely approved of  Mr Pettit  's candidacy. Yet these are the sorts of accusations- in fact, as  Senator Missen  says, quite the contrary was the case- that were advanced in the debate which we heard in this place two weeks ago. I move the following amendment to  Senator Cavanagh  's proposed amendment: 
Leave out all words after ' and ', insert: 
the Senate notes the continuing actions of the Commonwealth Government to ensure (i) effective selfmanagement for the Aurukun AND Mornington Island Aboriginal communities, pursuant to the agreement between the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments, of 11th April 1978; (ii) the subsequent Queensland local government legislation and the elections for the two shires; and (iii) the present negotiations between the two governments; and 
in the event of such agreement, legislative action and negotiations failing to provide satisfactory means for self-management, the Senate requests the Commonwealth Government to give urgent consideration to (and advise the Parliament of its intentions in regard to) the amendment of the existing Commonwealth legislation or the introduction of new legislation to ensure effective  self-mangement  for the Aurukun and Mornington Island Aboriginal communities, and other Aboriginal communities, pursuant to the substantial powers of the Commonwealth as examined in the Senate Committee's Report'. 
The policy of the Liberal and National Country parties on Aboriginal affairs has been spelt out on a number of occasions. Perhaps the most definitive of these was the statement put out in November 1975 at the time of the general election. It will be seen in that statement of the coalition parties' Aboriginal affairs policy that the concept of Aboriginal self-management plays an important part in that scheme of events. The policy says in part: 
The Liberal and National Country parties recognise that if a policy of self-management is to be effective, Aborigines must play a leading role in their affairs. This will include Aborigines playing a significant role: 
in setting the long term goals and objectives which the government should pursue and the programs it should adopt in such areas as Aboriginal education, housing, health, employment and legal aid; 
in setting the priorities for expenditure on Aboriginal affairs within the context of overall budget allocations; and 
in evaluating existing programs and formulating new ones. 
That policy goes on at some considerable length to discuss various matters regarding the coalition parties' Aboriginal affairs policy. But the central element in it is the recognition of the need for an effective scheme of Aboriginal self-management. 
The former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner,  in his second reading speech on the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-Management) Bill, quoted the remarks of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  with regard to the ongoing commitment of the coalition parties to the welfare of the Aboriginal people in that area. The Minister said: 
The Government will watch the situation in these two reserves closely. If further action is necessary it will be taken. As the Prime Minister stated on Monday before the National Aboriginal Conference: 
These communities have turned to us. We will not fail them. 
I believe that that statement is one which encapsulates the essence of what it is the coalition parties are attempting to do, and attempting to do within a framework that eschews needless confrontation. Quite simply, the only beneficiaries of this sort of confrontation are the editorial writers of the major newspapers who can fill up space which they would not otherwise have been able to fill. The people who really suffer in any such confrontation are not the officers of the Federal Government and they are not the members of the Queensland Government. They are the Aboriginal people whom both governments state they are attempting to assist. 
Yesterday, when the current Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Chaney,  put down a number of documents in the urgency debate that we had, one of those documents marked No. 1 1, which I believe was a statement released for circulation in the Northern Territory newspapers, again during the time when  Mr Viner  was the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, was headed Self-Management- Direction for the Future'. The Minister said: 
My Government sees self-management as the means by which the fundamental rights of Aboriginals can be encouraged. 
He went on to say: 
Self-management aims to allow Aboriginals to determine their own goals. Within these goals they may decide their own priorities in the allocation of finance and other resources, evaluate the effectiveness of existing programs and formulate new programs. Through this process, a state of self-sufficiency should gradually be achieved. 
Speaking further in that debate yesterday, the current Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Chaney,  indicated the continuing commitment of the Government to this particular proposition and his own personal commitment, which I think is something not in doubt on either side of the chamber. He said in part: 
I suggest to honourable senators opposite that if we wish to promote Aboriginal land rights further in this country we should deal with the matter as positively as possible and not simply say; 'Look at the Government selling out land rights'. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
I believe that the commitment which  Senator Chaney  has to the pursuit of the Government's intentions with regard to the Aboriginal communities in that area is one which would be recognised by all honourable senators, and one for which they would have great admiration for the Minister. 
I think it is important to indicate the fact that after the unfortunate events which occurred immediately after the promulgation of the selfmanagement legislation, the Commonwealth and Queensland governments have been at least attempting to move towards some constructive resolution of this problem. As honourable senators would know, on 1 1 April 1 978 a joint statement was issued by the Prime Minister and by the Premier of Queensland. The document bears the signatures of  Mr Fraser, Mr BjelkePetersen, Mr Porter, Mr Nixon, Mr Viner, Mr Anthony  and  Mr Hinze.  It commences with those words: 
Recognising our mutual obligation with regard to the wishes and the welfare of the Aboriginal peoples at Aurukun  and Mornington Island, the two Governments after long and earnest discussion, have reached the following agreement that in order to achieve self-management for Aurukun and Mornington Island communities . . . 
Ii then goes on to set out particular propositions about the way in which local government will be conducted in that area and the nature of local government administration. But the important thing is that this was a statement, a declaration by both governments, of a mutual obligation to move towards a resolution of this particular dispute. 
On 31 August 1978, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs issued a background paper entitled Aurukun and Mornington Island: The Position at the End of August'. I quote from that paper: 
In the Commonwealth view, the Agreement and the legislation subsequently enacted by the Queensland Parliament (the Local Government (Aboriginal Lands) Act 1978) offer such clear advantages to the Aboriginal communities over the situation facing them in March of this year that they should not prematurely be regarded as inoperative. They are a suitable vehicle for self-management and security of tenure over the Aboriginal traditional land. They remove the previous threat to the outstation movement. This is why the Commonwealth looks at the situation from the point of view of the longer term prospects, and would not wish to invoke such an ultimate sanction as acquisition in the face of setbacks which may prove to be of a short-term character. 
I emphasise those words: 
They- 
Referring  to legislation in Queensland-  are a suitable vehicle for self-management and security of tenure over the Aboriginal traditional land. 
In the background notes of January 1979, issued by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the following appears: 
Despite the Queensland Government's unilateral decision in August to dismiss both Councils and appoint an Administrator, reasonable progress has since been made in implementing the 1 1 April agreement: 
Shire Clerks have been appointed with the agreement of the communities and will take up duty in both communities by mid-January 1979. 
The Queensland Department of Local Government is providing funds for municipal services and the Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs is providing increased grants for other community enterprises and for outstation development. 
Details of the leases have been specified in the Local Government (Aboriginal Lands) Act Amendment Act 1978 and have been accepted by the communities. The formal granting of the leases is expected shortly. 
The Administrator has been consulting with the former councils on all matters. 
Electoral rolls have been updated in preparation for fresh Council elections on 3 1 March 1979. 
The document goes on to say: 
The communities have accepted with some reluctance, that the Queensland legislation should be given a chance to work, since it provides substantial benefits to the two communities- benefits not enjoyed by any other Aboriginals on reserves in Queensland- and represents a significant advance from the situation faced by them in March 1 978. 
We know what happened at the elections which took place at the end of last month, as  Senator Chaney  informed the Senate yesterday. At Aurukun, where the council had previously been dismissed, four of the five previous councillors who ran for re-election were elected. At Mornington Island all five councillors ran for reelection. Two of these councillors appear to have been re-elected. The re-election of one, because of postal voting is still in doubt and two appear to have been defeated. The hideous prospect raised by  Senator Keeffe  regarding the entry of real estate agents, or whatever, from Toowoomba to take over the management of these communities- these terrible people who have been set up by the Queensland Government with the alleged approval of the Commonwealth Government- never materialised. Quite clearly, they were not the people whom the local communities regarded as proper or suitable. The local communities dealt with them in the proper fashion, through the mechanism of the ballot box. 
We know that  Senator Chaney  is not present this evening to hear this debate because he is on his way to Aurukun and Mornington Island. In a Press release of today's date he indicated that he was travelling to these areas. It reads: 
The agreement between Commonwealth and State Governments ensured that the Aboriginal communities now had security of title to their land and the opportunity to administer and manage their own affairs. 
It continues: 
The establishment of self-management for Aurukun and Mornington Island has been fraught with problems, but has come about eventually as the result of a co-operative approach by the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments . . . lt is a system of local administration which will be watched closely by many Australian authorities and individuals- and particularly by other Aboriginal communities of Queensland. 
I draw the attention of honourable senators to what the Minister said. He is quite clearly saying that there has been a degree of co-operation between the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland authorities. I said at an earlier stage that one of the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which dealt with acquisition was based upon the premise that this co-operation would not be forthcoming or would not be productive. The extent to which this co-operation has now been forthcoming and productive means that we should look back to the report to see what it said could be done and how it could be done to safeguard the interests of the Aborigines in the area without going through the process  of complete acquisition.  Senator Cavanagh  's amendment reads as follows:   . . in conformity with the Committee's findings, this Senate requests the Government to take the action necessary to acquire the land known, at 1 March 1978, as the Aboriginal Settlements of Aurukun and Mornington Island and place it in perpetuity in Land Trusts appointed by the Aboriginal tribal leaders of the settlements. 
The process of acquisition is no easy process.  Senator Cavanagh  two weeks ago drew attention to what he saw as a number of legal problems arising from various pieces of Commonwealth legislation regarding Aboriginals. For instance, he queried the validity of the enactment known as the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act and he went on to speak in detail about the sorts of problems that were faced as far as acquisition is concerned. Obviously, there are considerable problems in the decision on what just terms may be with land compulsorily acquired from the State. If land is acquired in the face of State resistance and where the Commonwealth otherwise has no particular constitutional powersuch as it has in the Northern Territory- there are problems in providing basic services to that area. Where an enclave is created within an area it makes it very easy for a State government that is not well inclined to make conditions of living in that area all but impossible. 
The amendment that I have moved seeks to do several things: Firstly, it notes that progress has been made in negotiations between the Commonwealth authorities and Queensland authorities since the agreement of 1 1 April. Secondly, it draws attention to the local government elections in Queensland and draws particular attention to the fact that the Aboriginal people of that area have re-elected councillors who previously were not regarded with great favour by the Queensland Government. Those councillors have had a substantial reaffirmation of their mandate by the people they have been elected to serve. Thirdly, it indicates that negotiations are still in progress between the Commonwealth and Queensland. We know that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and his officers have been in contact with the Queensland Premier, the Leader of the Liberal Party in Queensland and Queensland Ministers. Discussions have continued at an official level towards a resolution of this matter. The amendment goes on to state that, in the event of such agreement, legislative action and negotiations failing to provide satisfactory means for self-management, the Commonwealth should then state to this Parliament what its intentions are in regard to action which has to be undertaken in order to bring about the self-management to which it has committed itself. The acquisition in some ways is a last resort, a desperate ploy in certain circumstances. The Senate Committee recognises this fact. Paragraph 73 of the Committee's report states: 
The Committee considers that Commonwealth legislation falling short of acquisition of property has some scope for providing for Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders to manage and control their own affairs: 
The Committee refers readers of the report back to paragraphs 56 and 57 of the body of the report under the heading 'Control without Acquisition '. Paragraph 56 states: 
The Committee accepts the view of the AttorneyGeneral's Department that, in order to avoid an 'acquisition of property', Commonwealth legislation to allow selfmanagement and control of their affairs by Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders in Queensland must not confer any right to occupy and use particular land: . . . The Committee notes the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act 1975 as an example of significant Commonwealth legislation operating in a negative way; that is, by overriding provisions of Queensland legislation which the Commonwealth Parliament finds objectionable. 
The Committee also notes the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act 1976 as an example of Commonwealth legislation operating in a positive way short of conferring proprietary rights; in this case, by making institutional mechanisms available to Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders for use in the management of their affairs. The Committee is in no doubt that the Commonwealth Parliament has considerable scope for effective action, both negative and positive, within this realm. 
Paragraph 57 reads: 
Nevertheless, where the facts of a particular case demonstrate that the right to occupy and use specific land forms a basic requirement of the management and control of the affairs of Aboriginals or Torres Strait Islanders, the Commonwealth has but two alternatives: Acquisition by the Commonwealth itself or (as urged by the Western Australian Government submission) relying on the State Government in question to achieve the desired object by means of appropriate action undertaken at the State level. The options available to the Commonwealth in respect of acquisition are discussed in the following section. As to State Government co-operation the Committee has not regarded it as within its terms of reference to address itself to the possibility of desired objectives being achieved, either in the short or long term, by co-operative State action. We proceed for present purposes on the assumption (which may in practice prove unfounded from time to time) that such co-operation will not be forthcoming and that the Commonwealth will accordingly need to undertake unilateral action to accomplish its objectives. 
That was quite clearly predicated, as I said, upon a presumption of no co-operation- a presumption which I believe does not hold in the way it held at the time we were writing this report which was presented to the Senate in November 1978. 1 think it is known that I have not been a great apologist for the Queensland Government. On occasions the Premier of that State has had some singularly unflattering things to say about me. But the important thing is that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs.  Senator Chaney,  is involved in a series of negotiations with the Queensland Government. There are two alternatives. We could try to bind  Senator Chaney  and the Government to a position of zero flexibility and expect that, given the circumstances in Queensland, he is still able to make any sort of progress or any substantial achievement; or we can clearly place on notice our recognition of the fact that these discussions are under way under the direction of  Senator Chaney  but that we have a particular fall-back position in the event of their being unable to achieve anything. As the Senate Committee report has identified very clearly, we have the ultimate weapon in acquisition but I do not think that we ought to be prepared to use it until all other remedies have been exhausted. 
All too often in debates about Aboriginal affairs in this place the one thing which is lost sight of is the way in which the Aboriginal communities can be assisted. Too often debates on Aboriginal affairs have become tools for beating State or Commonwealth governments about the head for their alleged shortcomings. There is no doubt that the shortcomings have been substantial. There is no doubt that the shortcomings in Queensland have been considerably more marked than anywhere else. I remember the first occasion on which I had any connection with legislative activity in relation to Aboriginal affairs. It was at the time I was working on the staff of Bill Wentworth during the period in which he was Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Although a great deal of progress has been made since then, by both State and Commonwealth authorities, obviously there is still a long way to go to bring about a situation that one could regard as equitable, just or even morally defensible. But there are ways of achieving what we want to do in this area. 
I believe that the way in which  Senator Chaney  is conducting Government policy at the moment is the correct and proper way. It does not rely upon bluster and bluff. It does not rely upon threat and intimidation. It does not rely upon debates in this place in order to give honourable senators a chance to grizzle about the activities of policemen in Queensland and make unfounded charges about individuals, policemen and people in the community, so that the interests of the people whom it is believed we are intending to serve disappear from sight. That is what happens on the Opposition side on almost every occasion during these debates. The venom and spleen that is reserved for the 
Queensland Government, in peculiar and particular measure, on the other side of the chamber is vented. Opposition senators have every right to vent it but not at the expense of making the Aboriginal communities of that State the meat in the sandwich for their political preoccupations. I believe that the amendment which I have moved is a responsible and rational way of attempting to meet the real desires and requests of the Aboriginal people. 
I am not in the least deflected by the stupid and inane statements about sell outs, or attempts to reflect on my motives or anything else in this debate. I know full well the way in which the debate has been conducted. The people who have shown themselves to be the responsible defenders and supporters of the Aboriginal cause have been on this side of the chamber. They have been exemplified by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in this place who is entitled to the full support of the Senate for the activities he is undertaking at the moment. For those reasons I commend the amendment to the Senate. 
I want to take a few moments this evening to make some remarks now that the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has concluded its hearings in Sydney and prior to the opening of the hearings in Melbourne. I wish to draw the attention of honourable senators to the farce which the Broadcasting Tribunal has come to represent and the way in which the bipartisan attitude has pervaded discussion of broadcasting in Australia. The bipartisan agreement about the role of the public in the participation of the determining of broadcasting matters has been put out of the window by the attitude and activity of the Broadcasting Tribunal. This Tribunal is not some mere fly by night organisation. It is not something that exists on a shoestring. 
The running costs for its hearings approach a figure of $3m provided out of Commonwealth revenue. The costs to the television stations appearing before it on matters regarding the renewal of television licences were estimated at a figure of around $50,000 by Channel 7. The Broadcasting Tribunal has turned the concept of public participation into a total farce. It is time that either the Broadcasting Tribunal was completely abolished and replaced with something thai will properly deal with public participation or was substantially overhauled, or that the membership of the Tribunal was changed. I certainly believe that the latter is a most important thing.  Mrs Janet  Strickland, who resigned from the Tribunal, said in a report in the  National Times  for the week ending 1 4 April: 
The whole thing was a sham for mc. Here wc were systematically throwing the public out of a public inquiry  . . The Tribunal is discredited and public accountability is a joke. 1 simply don't want to be associated with it any further. 
One would have thought that the whole concept of public participation in the hearings for the renewal of these licences before the Tribunal would have meant that people who had a point of view would have been allowed to put it, not necessarily as witnesses for cross-examination but that at the very least their written submissions would have been accepted. Yet at the hearing in Sydney, when the Tribunal came to the applications of people to make submissions regarding the Channel 9 licence, 32 of the 43 written submissions were not even admitted. The Tribunal in determining who was going to put in submissions before it as far as Channel 7, Channel 9 and Channel 10 in Sydney were concerned, admitted three groups only as participants in each of the inquiries. Only the Festival of Light, the Australian Labor Party and the Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations were allowed to appear in all three inquiries. Some groups had done an enormous amount of work. One group called the People's Commission claimed that it had systematically analysed the programs of Channel 9. It had a monitoring analysis of Channel 9's programs of over 300 hours covering a four-month period. Its submission was taken by the Tribunal to be irrelevant. The Tribunal had not studied it in great depth; it simply said: 'This is irrelevant'. Despite the fact that 300 hours of painstaking analysis had been undertaken, the submission was dismissed by the Tribunal. How can anybody believe that there is any way in which that could be regarded as public participation? 
The Tribunal exists as a very cosy in-house arrangement. Two of the three members of the Tribunal, as it now is, who have had remarkable experience in the commercial television field, conduct a dialogue with members of the industry who appear before them on the old boy, buddybuddy system, complete with the swapping of in' jokes, ancient reminisences of how it was in the old days and remarks such as 'Hasn't it changed a bit since then?' The public, of course, not privy to these 'in' jokes and innuendoes, has no idea of what is going on, and no attempt is made by the Tribunal to explain what is going on. I sat through the Tribunal hearings in Sydney whenever I could. I sat through the hearings of the Tribunal for the granting of frequency modulation licences in New South Wales, and this was an attitude which was absolutely apparent. That is the attitude that two of the three members of the Tribunal adopt. The third member of the Tribunal takes a somewhat different approach to the questioning and the examining of witnesses who come before him. The third member of the Tribunal,  Mr Keith  Moremon, broke a two-week silence during these hearings to respond in fairly startled fashion, when somebody told him that Gene Autry movies were being shown, with the remark: 'Gene Autry, the singing cowboy?' Those words constitute the whole of this participation in terms of questioning or comment in two weeks of a public inquiry. It is under these sorts of circumstances that one can be forgiven for wondering just how seriously the Tribunal takes public participation. 
I believe that the Tribunal has been quite derelict in its duty in examining a number of matters that came before it. I sat with great interest through the questioning by the Tribunal on matters such as religious broadcasting, political broadcasting, the views on section 116 of the Broadcasting and Television Act regarding the limitations of political broadcasting, and sponsored broadcasting. With one of the television stations the Tribunal managed to cover religious broadcasting, political broadcasting and sponsored broadcasting in a space, according to my watch, of about four minutes. 
It has no doubt been drawn to the attention of honourable senators that to a large extent the Tribunal has been intimidated by the appearance before it of some of the most eminent Queen's Counsel at the Bar in New South Wales, Queen's Counsel who have raised with the Tribunal  Chairman  the question that his decisions or the decisions of the Tribunal may well be subject to an appeal to the High Court of Australia. One of these eminent gentleman,  Mr Shand,  in making submissions on behalf of Channel 7, was reported by the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 14 March in these terms: 
Public submissions to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal's hearing into the licence renewal of ATN Channel 7 would turn it into a forum for public views on the Australian media generally. 
He argued that the Tribunal could take into account only matters which would give the Tribunal grounds to refuse a licence. In other words, such things as general program standards, local content or advertising were not directly relevant to that hearing. Similarly,  Mr T.  E. F. Hughes, Q.C., appearing for Channel 9 said that the Tribunal had 'clearly committed an error' in the exercise of its jurisdiction by treating public submissions as material it was bound to consider. I would have thought that if there were anything that a tribunal- allegedly dedicated to public participation- was bound to consider it would be public submissions. But despite this and despite the overwhelming weight of evidence put before the Tribunal that television licences should, perhaps, be renewed only on the basis of having certain conditions attached to them, the three major Sydney television stations have had their licences renewed for the three-year period without any conditions attached to them. This is a move which one industry cynic has called 'thrashing them with a feather'. 
The attitude which the stations took towards the Tribunal is perhaps equally revealing. In the report which the Tribunal prepared in July 1977 entitled 'Self-Regulation for Broadcasters' it was at pains on page 2 1 to indicate what it called the promise of performance as one of the principal things to be taken into account when dealing with licence renewals. The promise of performance requires a television station to give certain undertakings to the Tribunal. The Tribunal is to judge, at some later stage, whether those undertakings have been, in fact, complied with. The self-regulation report elevates the promise of performance into something of very considerable stature. In fact, Professor Richard Harding in his book  Outside Interference  when commenting on the role of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal said: 
The key concept in the Tribunal 's strategy for the future is that of the Promise of Performance. 
What son of promise of performance did we get? The  Canberra Times  of 77 March 1979 stated: 
Channel 7's promise was given to the tribunal yesterday by  Mr Edward  Thomas, general manager of Amalgamated Television Services Pty Ltd, which is making application. 
The licensee undertakes during the period of renewal to comply with the requirements of the Broadcasting and Television Act, the regulations, the program standards and any orders or directions which the tribunal may lawfully give',  Mr Thomas  said. 
After a brief pause, a tribunal member,  Mrs Janet  Strickland, asked, 'ls that it,  Mr Thomas?'  and he replied. That's if. 
Indeed it was. That was it. That was what the television stations thought of the Tribunal 's key concept of promise of performance. The Tribunal, I think, ought to recognise that the television stations' responsibility goes a great deal further than the mere matters of programming. It goes very directly to the content of programming. In the Report of the Royal Commission on Television presented to this Parliament in November 1954, the Royal Commission, at paragraph 499, stated: 
We are strongly of opinion that the licensee of a commercial television station must accept responsibility for all programs transmitted by the station, and cannot delegate this responsibility to an advertiser or to anyone else. 
So quite clearly, the Royal Commission was under the impression that the television stations had a far wider responsibility in these matters. The whole ethos of public participation was spelt out in the self-regulation report. The report at paragraph 3.2 stated: 
There has been no continuously operating mechanism by means of which the public could bring direct influence to bear on these decisions. 
That was in relation to decisions about the renewal or issue of licences. At paragraph 4. 1 the report stated: 
The electro-magnetic spectrum is both a public utility and a scarce national resource. For these reasons a licence to broadcast should be seen as a public trust which entails obligations as well as privileges. 
At the moment the Tribunal is busy handing out privileges without having any concept of what obligations are involved. In fact, the powers of the Broadcasting Tribunal are extensive. I will review quickly the way in which it has come to have these powers. The Broadcasting and Television Act from 1942 until 1973 provided in section 16 that recommendations would be made by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to the Minister who would then have the right to issue licences. The matter was left very much in his hands. In fact, the Minister could give directions about the hours of broadcast and advertisements. By the amendment of the Act in 1 976, the Tribunal was established. After further amendment in 1977, the Broadcasting and Television Act, in section 1 6 now lists the powers of the Tribunal thus: 
) The functions of the Tribunal are- 
To grant, renew, suspend and revoke licences; 
To determine the standards to be observed by licencees in respect of the broadcasting or televising of programs: 
to determine the conditions subject to which advertisements may be broadcast or televised by licencees; (0 To determine the hours during which programs may be broadcast or televised by licencees . . . 
It goes on to indicate the way in which the Tribunal can issue licences with some degree of qualification. The then Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Eric  Robinson, drew attention to this in his second reading speech on 13 October 1977. In describing those powers of the Tribunal, he said: 
In general, these procedures allow for a high degree of public and industry involvement in the Tribunal's decisionmaking processes. 

 Mr Eric Robinson later stated: 
The Minister will initiate the calling oflicence applications as part of the planning process and then refer the applications received to the Tribunal for determination. In inviting applications, the Minister will provide specifications for the particular licence. These will indicate the nature of the service to be provided, the areato be served, the purpose of the licence, and other technical matters. These specifications will become, upon grant of the licence, conditions of the licence, in addition to the conditions set by the Tribunal pursuant to its powers. 
He was quite clearly indicating that the Tribunal has the power to impose conditions on licences if it is so minded. In the  National Times  of 7 April 1 979,  Senator Ryan  is quoted as saying: 
The fault is with the Government forgiving the Tribunal a job but no power to perform it.  1 submit that, in fact, the Tribunal has those powers and is able to exercise them if it is so minded. In an interview on  Four Corners  on 1 1 March 1979,  Mr Gyngell  admitted this. The interviewer asked him: 
Why didn't the Tribunal take action against commercial stations in Adelaide when they actually admitted breaches of broadcasting standards? 
MrGyngell replied: 
I think it was a matter of interpretation and I think that it is rather difficult for me to talk on behalfof other members of the Tribunal but from a personal point of view, how did you quantify those breaches that they had made? They were breaches of a standard, they were not breaches of the Act and I believe that the promise of performance and the dialogue that we had during that inquiry led us to believe, or certainly led me to believe that they were sufficiently chastened to make rapid steps and to take giant steps, in all cases, with a promise of performance, to be ina state where we could really look at it in 1 982. 
Again, reliance is placed upon the promise of performance. We have seen what the promise of performance means to at least one of the television stations in Sydney. We know that Ministers and the Tribunal have this power. I was a great supporter of the action taken by the former Minister for the Media,  Dr Cass,  who was prepared to put TVT6 Hobart off the air for a period in 1975 for consistently and deliberately breaching standards. I do not see why this sort of attitude should not be supported. I believe that there are a number of matters in the Act and a number of areas in the administration that need to be cleared up. I would like to see a system in which the Broadcasting Tribunal adopts one of the ideas which has been adopted in the past by the Independent Broadcasting Authority of the United Kingdom. The Independent Broadcasting Authority has some real teeth. I quote again from that part of Professor Harding's book which contains a very good discussion of this matter. At page 1 66 he writes: 
If standards are breached, sanctions may be taken against the companies during the franchise period. In addition, a franchise may not be renewed if overall performance is judged to be unsatisfactory. Thus, in 1968 Redilfusion lost its franchise because of unsatisfactory performance. The year before, TWW had lost its franchise to a new group, Harlech Television, not on account of any sins of commission but because it was thought that Harlech was likely to do even better. 
We ought to have the Act sufficiently clarified so that if the Tribunal, or whatever other body has this role, is of the opinion that the television station concerned is not providing programs and broadcasting of a sufficient quality, it can transfer that licence to somebody else and so that it does not find itself in a situation where eminent Queen's Counsel say: 'All you can do is renew the licence unless you can prove a breach of the Act.' That situation is not satisfactory. The Act needs to be amended. The half-hearted response of the Tribunal, as reported in yesterday's  Australian,  was that there will be new guidelines on children's television, but that they will not be enforceable guidelines. The Tribunal said, in effect: They will sort of be suggestions, and if you are very good something might be done about them. If you want to tell us exactly what we can do with our guidelines on children's television that is up to you. Anyway we do not have a chance to do anything about it for the next three years '. 1 believe that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Staley,  has certainly recognised this problem. On 4 April, in answer to a question asked in the House of Representatives, he indicated quite clearly in these terms: 
. there may be a need to review some aspects of the procedures which were decided upon and instituted in the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
For instance, he ought to be prepared to appoint to the Tribunal, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland suggested today, people with expertise in particular areas. It is certainly true that the Act provides for the appointment of associate members. The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal's annual report for the period to 30 June 1977 drew attention to that provision. The report states: 
The Act also provides for the appointment of up to six Associate Members. Associate Members may be appointed for the purposes of the Tribunal's functions relating to public inquiries. At the time of the writing this report no Associate Members had been appointed. 
I believe that a range of associate members ought to be appointed and called upon to do specific tasks when specific matters are before the Tribunal. I believe that there ought to be the rapid appointment of the other two members to the Tribunal, and that their appointment should be made after the position has been publicly advertised. 
In the next couple of years the Tribunal will be facing a number of significant new developments. It cannot possibly face them if it carries on in the way in which it is doing so at the moment. For instance, it will be facing the question of the development of ethnic television for Australia. The report of the Ethnic Television Review Panel entitled 'An Ethnic Television Service for Australia', which has recently come into the hands of members and senators, will undoubtedly be seen as something which charts a particular course. But is it necessarily the right course? For instance, in the  Australian  of 2 1 April there appeared an article which dealt with the remarks of  Mr Frank  Galbally. He stated that he believed that ethnic television, which was due to begin experimental broadcasts on the following Sunday, would eventually go commercial to offset high running costs. Although ethnic television has a budget of $550,000 for the period to 30 June to produce approximately 33 hours of television programs, it may well be that it will have to develop in a commercial sense. Because of the way in which the Tribunal is behaving at the moment, I believe that it does not stand a prayer of being able to grapple with the issues of ethnictelevision on a commercial basis. There will be the question of the ownership and control of commercial FM radio, which presumably the Tribunal will deal with. The Green report into broadcasting, presented in September 1976, was particularly anxious that further developments of licences of one sort or another should not be allowed to fall into the hands of people whose cross-media ownership was already substantial. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which shows the principal interests of groups with cross and multiple ownership of Australian media. 
Leave granted. 77ie-  document read as follows- 

<graphic href="081232197905014_56_3.jpg"></graphic>

-This is the table printed in the back of Professor Harding's book. It is the most up-to-date that I was able to get hold of at the time. The Green report indicated that it believed that stations and owners of stations should, if necessary, be forced to divest themselves, even retrospectively, of some of their interests. At page A 121 of the Green report it is stated: 
Accordingly, those companies which now hold excess television interests should be required to dispose of such interests over a period of time to be determined by the Tribunal, and under such arrangements as are proposed by the Tribunal and approved by the Minister. 
The Green report clearly contemplated people in fact divesting themselves of some of their holdings. I for one make it quite clear that if any legislation comes into this Parliament which says that commercial FM licences should be granted only to people who are the existing holders of broadcasting licences, I would certainly vote against that piece of legislation. I think the Government will have to consider very carefully the way in which it introduces commercial FM licences. I do not think the Tribunal, given its previous record, has any way in which it will be able to handle this. There will be problems when cable television comes on. There will be problems when the domestic satellite arrangements are such that there is scope for a large number of additional television stations. It is ironic that the television industry is one of a few industries where the quality of the product has declined with the growth of competition. I do not want it to be assumed that the commercial stations are the only villains and that the Australian Broadcasting Commission is no villain of this piece. I think there needs to be a systematic and in-depth inquiry into the ABC. It may well be that the Commission could find itself required to meet some of the standards which the Tribunal is currently laying down as far as commercial stations are concerned. 
In conclusion I say that there are going to be great new directions in broadcasting and communications. The British Report of the Committee on the Future of Broadcasting, presented in March 1977, had this to say: 
Good broadcasting depends on talent- the talents of the men and women who make the programmes and for which there is no substitute. But it also depends in part on the way broadcasting is organised; and those who point out that the output of individuals is to some extent conditioned by the structure of the industry in which they work, are not in the wrong. We do not believe that the present structure of broadcasting, which was devised to meet the needs of the 1 960s, will be adequate to meet the demands of the 1980s. In our view the present structure could not ever adapt enough to meet the increase in the demands for new services which society may make in the next 1 5 years. 
The same is true in Australia. There are still people who resist public participation. That august journal, the  Daily Mirror,  on 6 March, in commenting on the number of people appearing before the Tribunal, has this to say in its editorial: 
Now  Mrs Janet  Strickland has resigned from the tribunal because she believes not enough public participation has been allowed. 
Really? We thought everybody, with the possible exception of the Bandywallop Drum and Fife Band, has been allowed to have a say. 
That is typical of the reaction of media of that sort to an important element of the Tribunal's policy. I suppose it is not surprising that commercial stations have become what they are. 
-No, senator, I thought I made it clear earlier. That is what I regarded as one of the absolutely inherent problems of cross media ownership; that in fact you do not get adequate comment by the media on each other or on different aspects of the media because they are all protecting the same interest.  Sir John  Reith, in his book  Into the Wind,  commented funnily enough in 1935 when Prime Minister Lyons was asking him what was going to be the future of commercial radio broadcasting. Reith wrote as follows: 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission was in an unfortunate position: he ( Lyons) was uncomfortable about the privately owned B class stations on which advertising was permitted. He was more uncomfortable at the end of the conversation. I said that unless he did something now he would bc sorry later: the B class stations would become so powerful that no one would touch them. 
He went on to say: 
A year later Menzies told me I had been quite right about the B class stations getting beyond control. 
That was more than 30 years ago so the writing has been on the wall for a considerable period of time. 
I apologise for having detained the Senate for so long on this occasion and at this hour. I think that broadcasting is an area we get little opportunity to discuss. Broadcasting Bills rarely come before us and yet broadcasting, in its various forms, affects all of us. lt affects and does something to shape the society in which we live. Unless the Government is prepared to put a little more teeth into its legislation and to appoint to the watchdog positions people who are more committed to the concept of public broadcasting, we will get the sort of broadcasting system we deserve and we will be largely responsible for the fact that it is far below the standard that we ought to be demanding. 
-Has the AttorneyGeneral seen details of the New South Wales Government's Evidence Bill, which seeks to withhold from both the courts and the public communications and documents relating to Cabinet discussions, policy formulation and government administration at senior levels which may be relevant to legal proceedings? Further, has he seen suggestions made by the New South Wales Attorney-General,  Mr 
Walker, that this Government is seeking to introduce at Federal level similar legislation designed to nullify the effects of the High Court's Sankey judgment? Is the suggestion true? If it is true, would legislation along the lines of the New South Wales legislation not only be a major departure from this Government's commitment to freedom of information but also make it even harder to get information about government administration than has ever been the case in the past? 
I rise to speak about the specific amendment moved by the Opposition, and not simply for the purpose of allowing  Senator Evans  to get to his feet again. 
-Yes, indeed,  Senator. It  would have been more than too much to hope for. I confine myself specifically to the amendment moved by  Senator Evans  to insert a new clause 23A.  Senator Evans  began his remarks by saying that the powers conferred generally in Division 2 of this Bill were legally unprecedented. I suppose that one could agree with that. But one would have to observe that that may well arise simply from the fact that new circumstances are being confronted and that the original ASIO legislation hardly contemplated the range of activities which would have to come under the examination of the security service, or the method by which communications would have developed. It is, therefore, perhaps not surprising to find that, in legislation which is considerably older than this piece of legislation, those powers were not provided for. I think it is sad and regrettable that it appears that these powers are necessary in order to bring about the sort of control of subversive and illegal activities at which this Bill is aimed. 
The amendment moved by  Senator Evans  deals specifically with the matter of how the Minister shall act when the Minister is in the process of issuing warrants. I think the very fact that warrants are to be issued by the Minister himself imposes some degree of control and a high degree of responsibility on the person holding that ministerial office to understand the degree to which he is accountable, in the proper parliamentary sense, for his actions. The amendment assumes, I think, that any Minister holding the position referred to here would in fact almost rush into the issuing of warrants to use listening devices, to enter premises or to intercept mail also as a first reaction. The implication is quite clear that any Minister will be tempted into automatically churning out warrants as if they were in all cases the very first line of attack with that problem. I do not think that it helps the debate at all to introduce into a debate on this legislation terms like 'legal burglary'. I do not think that it really substantially advances the debate to try simply to put the worst possible emotive attachment to any measure which is proposed. It has been noted, I think in a large number of other quarters, that the need to intercept or to have some surveillance, particularly over telephonic devices, is one that has been generally accepted as a proper pan of the armoury of a security service. 
In the United States of America, in the  Public Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act, 1968,  which is the omnibus legislation governing most of these provisions, in the discussion of that particular public law, under Title III entitled  Wiretapping and Electronic Surveillance,  section 801 (c) reads: 
Organised criminals make extensive use of wire and oral communications in their criminal activities. The interception of such communications to obtain evidence of the commission of crimes or to prevent their commission is an indispensable aid to law enforcement and the administration of justice. 
I think that is the sort of principle which has become widely accepted throughout security services and has become widely accepted, indeed, throughout the community as having its legitimacy based in the fact that the public is entitled to see a situation in which security forces, acting within a legal charter, and acting within a charter which imposes both parliamentary and other controls upon the organisation, should not be so hampered, should not be so penned down, to an extent that makes it impossible to protect the community in any adequate fashion. 
The effect of the statutory provision which  Senator Evans  would write into the Act by way of proposed new clause 23a would in fact require the Minister to involve himself in an examination of every single proposition put to him about the issuing of a warrant, to the extent that he met the tests presumed to exist in this particular clause and satisfied himself on reasonable grounds that other lawful methods of investigation had proved insufficient. In other words, he would have to determine in the particular case that came before him, for instance, whether there had been a complete evaluation of whether it was possible over a period to infiltrate somebody into a particular organisation in order to monitor its activities or whether it was possible to gain particular information from purely public sources or whether it was possible, by any number of other lawful activities, to obtain that information. I would suggest that in many of these things, to a very large extent we are going to be faced with situations whereby the matter is one that has arisen in a state of some haste. In this area there would be numerous cases on which immediate action might have to be taken when it may well have been that other lawful methods would eventually have produced the same result. But the immediate use of a particular method, as provided in Division 2, under a ministerial warrant, would in fact yield the same result at a far faster rate and indeed in a form and in a time frame that would make it more practical to take action upon any information that is received. 
I do not understand, and  Senator Evans  certainly did not spell this out in his speech, what he means by 'would in all the circumstances be quite impracticable as a means of obtaining the information'. I would have thought that the process of seeking to involve a Minister in making minute judgements in each particular case to satisfy the criteria which  Senator Evans  has set forth in his proposed new clause 23a in fact is not only impractical but is also very likely to lead to situations whereby evidence will go without being collected and, if that evidence is collected, it will not be sufficiently timely for action to be taken upon it. 
I think that clause  23A  as proposed adds nothing because I suppose that any Minister, if he were so minded, would be quite prepared to state on any occasion that he was satisfied that he had satisfied all the tests of Clause  23A  when he issued the warrant. To that extent, because I think there is nothing enforceable about what is proposed in clause 23a, because there is nothing by which objective criteria can really be brought to bear on the discussion of the proposals in clause 23a and because it adds nothing to the section and nothing to the whole of Division 2, 1 believe it is not worthy of the support of the Senate for inclusion in this Division. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Science and the Environment been drawn to an article in yesterday's  Australian Financial Review  which reveals that Offshore Oil NL has written a confidential letter to the Queensland Commissioner for Corporate Affairs announcing that it has acquired a majority shareholding in Gulf Interstate Overseas Ltd, a corporation registered as a foreign company in Queensland, which has some expectation that it will be able to drill on the Barrier Reef? The article goes on to say: 
Talks are currently under way between the Federal and Queensland Governments which could lead to certain areas within the reef region being opened up for oil exploration and drilling. 
Are such talks under way? Is that the purpose of such talks? If not, can an assurance be given to that effect? 
The particular matter dealt with in clause 25, as well as the matter dealt with in the Opposition amendment, is the whole issue of the use of listening devices, and the question whether the warrant specified in sub-clause 6 of clause 25 should extend for a period not exceeding six months as it proposed in the legislation or for a period not exceeding 90 days, as is proposed in the Opposition amendment. The first thing to which I wish to address myself is the question of the use of listening devices. In the Law Reform Commission report on criminal investigation the question of listening devices is dealt with at some length, and in paragraph 213 the Commission states: 
The present federal law - 
That is essentially the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act-  has been criticised on a number of grounds. First, under the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act, surveillance for the purpose of national security is not subject to any judicial control. The risk of abuse may bc increased by the very wide definition ofthe security of the Commonwealth' in s.  3  of that Act. 
The extent to which the concept ofthe security of the Commonwealth and what constitutes a security risk, acts of terrorism or subversion, is more precisely defined in this piece of Australian Security Intelligence Organisation legislation seems to go a long way towards meeting the criticisms levelled there. The report continues: 
Secondly, the use of listening devices other than those related to the interception of telephonic communications is not covered. 
Because this piece of legislation relates not only to telephonic communications but also to listening devices in general, and we know from that term that listening devices may include any number from the very large range of sophisticated electronic apparatus that is available, the second criticism of the Law Reform Commission is dealt with to a very large extent. The Commission continues in paragraph 2 1 3 of the report: 
Thirdly, the Act is arguably too restrictive. No provision is made for telephonic surveillance by police even in circumstances which may meet the requirements, of particularity of description and the like, prescribed for the lawful search and seizure of physical objects. Those requirements might conceivably be met in some cases of monitoring without the consent of either party to a conversation, and would be met in many cases where monitoring is conducted with the consent of one party. 
The report of the Law Reform Commission picks up the important element that the restrictive operation of these things may need to be looked at. For instance, in paragraph 219 the Commission states: 
So far as monitoring without consent is concerned the main arguments in favour of the law allowing at least some such eavesdropping are as follows. First, it is essential if law enforcement is to bc effective against the increasing sophistication and complexity of crime today, particularly in the context of national and internal security, kidnapping, serious vice offences, narcotics trafficking, gambling, and 'organised crime' generally. The relevant activities of such criminals themselves almost invariably take place in secret. This position was expressed forcefully in the UK Report of the Privy Counsellors Appointed to Inquire into the Interception of Communications. The second argument is the negative one that there is an insignificant distinction between, on the one hand, eavesdropping by means of listening devices and, on the other hand, observation by means of police informers, or police officers observing a suspect with the aid of binoculars, (and perhaps lip-reading), or listening from an adjacent place of secrecy, all of which have never been prohibited. To the extent that listening devices may involve a greater risk in invasion of privacy, adequate protection may be afforded by a requirement akin to that of securing a search warrant. 
The warrant provided for in this clause seems to me one which is very much in line with what the Senate has previously determined should be the terms and condition of warrants throughout the rest of this legislation. The proposal in clause 25 (6) regarding the length of the warrant is taken from the existing provisions of the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act. Section 6 (4) of that Act states: 
A warrant under this section shall specify the period for which it is to remain in force, being a period that docs not exceed six months, but may be revoked by the AttorneyGeneral at any time before the expiration of the period so specified. 
I point out to those who are concerned to make argument about this being some sort of new intrusion under the ASIO Bill that has not previously been provided that that is not the case. As to those who during the period when they had control of the executive government of this country did nothing to provide amendments to the telephonic communications interception legislation, if they are suddenly so concerned about this matter they should be answering the question of why, when they were in government, they did not move in this manner. 
-I understand  Senator Gietzelt  's interjection. At some earlier stage he was moved to make a comment about who was or who was not in this chamber, or whether or not they had run for cover. I suppose that that is the level at which the Opposition has sought to conduct a large part of this debate. As far as the general problem of the use of listening devices is concerned, the method by which these have been referred to in this legislation, the extent to which they have been specified, and the requirements placed upon the use of these devices, including the application of the use of a warrant, which is the subject of the amendment by the Opposition, once again I find myself in a position of being able to accept that the situation which the Government brings before us in terms of this legislation is one which is justified given the particular problems with which this legislation seeks to deal and one which is justified on the basis of the--  (Quorum formed.) 
The sensitivity of members of the Opposition to attacks made upon the hypocrisy with which they have approached the whole of this ASIO Bill, and this clause in particular, is not surprising when one considers the record of the previous Labor Administration in dealing with these matters or when one considers the way in which the Australian Labor Party has approached the ASIO Bill with a quite facile presumption that no bipartisan attitude can be demonstrated except by the facile acceptance of every Opposition amendment regardless of its merits. I was referring to the whole question of the use of listening devices, and I refer once again to the report of the Law Reform Commission on Criminal Investigation, paragraph 224. The report states: 
First, we see no distinction in principle between telephone tapping and other forms of surveillance involving the use of electronic listening devices. Secondly, we. think that the police ought not to be denied all the advantages of modern technology in fighting crime which itself uses it. 
Therefore, I think that a number of the remarks made by speakers on the Opposition benches about the use of listening devices or the attempts to write down from six months to 90 days the period of the warrant do not bear very careful analysis. There are many instances- I think many of us are aware of them- that in the long and tedious process of putting together a case, a record and a file, which may be of necessity-- 
I do not hesitate to use the word 'dossier'. I do not find it a frightening and terrifying word. I would have suspected that and would not have been surprised if, given the report of  Mr Acting  Justice White or anybody else, every member of this Parliament had some sort of dossier kept on them. It certainly does not cause me to lose any sleep at night to know that somebody may be undertaking that, whether it is the Parliamentary Library or ASIO. 
-Indeed, as  Senator Hamer  says, even the newspaper libraries. The argument which has been put forward regarding the Opposition's amendment is not a convincing one. The fact is that clause 25 (6) picks up an existing provision in section 64 of the Telecommunications (Interception) Act. No evidence has been presented of any grave misuse of that section which has been used from time to time. That makes me quite convinced that the Opposition amendment is not worth supporting. 
I must say that on this matter I share a very large part ofthe concern that  Senator Evans  has expressed about investing an official, including the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, with powers to undertake the issuing of a warrant in emergency circumstances for a period not in excess of 48 hours. My problem is that I really do not see that the amendment that  Senator Evans  has moved in terms of oral communication really gets to the heart of the problem and solves the difficulty. Obviously if a situation were ever to arise- and it must be drawn as a hypothetical situation- in which a warrant is issued and some dispute arises as to whether in fact the oral authorisation was provided by a Minister of State, be he the Attorney-General a person who is acting as Attorney-General or the nominee of the Attorney-General on some occasion when he is absent from the country, I think it would be a most difficult situation to demonstrate whether or not such oral directions had in fact been issued by the Minister unless one were to go to the ludicrous extremes of expecting the DirectorGeneral or the Minister to maintain some sort of tape recording of conversations that may or may not have passed when the oral authorisation was given. 
I think it is important to realise that, as with clause 25, a large part of clause 28 is taken from the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act, and in particular section 7. In the last paragraph of section 7 ( 1 ) it can be seen that under that Act the Director-General of Security has this power by warrant under his hand to authorise the interception of communications passing over any telephone line that forms part of the service or connects the service to a telephone exchange. Under section 7 (2) of that Act the warrant shall remain in force for not more than 48 hours.  Mr Justice  Hope in Volume I of the Fourth Report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security, in dealing with this whole matter of interception, made a number of comments to which I would like to refer. In paragraph 141, referring to the telephonic communications legislation, he said: 
The number of warrants issued since the enactment ofthe legislation has been quite modest. 
In paragraph 1 43 he said: 
Accordingly, although I consider that use of listening devices by ASIO should be controlled, I do not recommend any amendment of the Telephonic Communications (Interception ) Act for this purpose. 
Again talking about listening devices, in paragraph 147 he said: 
Their use by ASIO should be prohibited without warrant by the Minister, or in urgent circumstances by the DG of Security. 
He concluded that paragraph by saying:   . . but at the same time to ensure that their use is properly controlled and supervised, and that the Minister has the ultimate responsibility. 
Certainly  Mr Justice  Hope nowhere gives us any indication of what he regards as urgent circumstances. Presumably therefore one is put back on to the second test that  Senator Evans  put before us this evening, that is, that the test is one of practicality and not one involving any great matter of principle whereby this power should be vested in the hands of the Director-General. As 1 said at the opening of my remarks, I do not like at all the provision for the Director-General to have this extraordinary power even though the warrant remains in force for the limited period of 48 hours. 1 do not believe, however, that oral communications- in the precise terms of the Opposition's amendment, 'the Minister may orally authorise the Director-General to do certain things'- really effectively deals with that problem. It seems to me that practically it creates far more problems than it is likely to solve. I am left in the position of neither liking the Government's clause nor the Opposition's amendment and therefore would simply not wish to bring about a situation which I think in fact is marginally worse in terms of the provision of the oral authorisation that  Senator Evans  has put before us. 
I do believe that it is a very serious matter to vest in a public servant whose tenure of office is guaranteed for a fairly significant period, barring the most unusual circumstances, that sort of power over individual citizens. I think that it is equally unfortunate that in an attempt to advance his case  Senator Evans  should so weaken his position, and so make it that much more difficult for members on this side of the chamber to find any sympathy with his position, by taking every conceivable opportunity to sling off at the Attorney-General personally. If one is talking about a genuine attempt at bipartisanship, equally that ought te be recognised. 
-Or to sling off at me. In those circumstances, the Opposition's amendment, because I believe that potentially it creates more problems than it is likely to solve, is not one that would have my support, however, the power that the clause currently vests in the DirectorGeneral is a power which, within the system of parliamentary democracy that we know in many ways is an unwise one to so vest. 
-Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to the fact that there have been some 192 political executions in Iran since the monstrous regime of the Ayatollah Khomeini came to power? Have the victims included some distinguished parliamentarians such as a former 
Prime Minister,  Mr Hoveida,  two Speakers of the Lower House of the Iranian Parliament,  Mr Riazi  and  Mr Sa'eed,  an Information Minister, a distinguished Foreign Minister and even a former Minister for Education? Further, has the Minister's attention been drawn to the detention without trial of the distinguished elder statesman, the 84 year old  Senator Ali  Dashti, who apparently is being held for the crime of assisting to come to power Reza Shah, the father of the current Shah, in the 1920s? Why has the Australian Government not protested in terms as forthright as those relating to the execution of  Mr Bhutto?  Has our lamentable silence been related solely to our desire to sell meat to Iran? Are sales of meat now to become a factor in determining Australia's attitude to the violation of human rights? 
I support the remarks  Senator Missen  has made. As 1 understand the Opposition's amendment, it relates only to the proposed deletion of clause 37 (2) (a) and does not relate specifically to any matter arising under subclause (2)(b). The amendment also proposes the consequential deletion of clause 37 (4). I will deal, if I may, with both sub-clause (2) (a) and sub-clause (2) (b) in terms of departure in this legislation from the suggestions made by  Mr Justice  Hope. In relation to paragraph (a), as  Senator Missen  has indicated, in paragraph 154 of the Second Report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security  His  Honour said: 
The Prime Minister alone should be entitled to veto notification, and then only if he certifies that that course is necessary in the interests of the security of the nation. He should give this certificate in his character as leader of the government and not as the minister administering the ASIO Act or any other legislation. 
The Government has decided to depart from that suggestion by substituting the AttorneyGeneral for the Prime Minister. In respect of subclause (2) (b), I note that  Mr Justice  Hope in fact indicated in paragraph 1 5 1 of the same volume that the decision to withhold the grounds contained in a security assessment could be made by either the Attorney or the Director-General of Security. The Bill in fact does not give the 
Director-General the right to involve himself in that decision. 
I believe a valid case can be mounted for saying that there will be occasions on which it may be proper that an individual should not be apprised of the fact that an ASIO assessment has been made because the assessment is of such a nature that the revealing of it, in the words contained in sub-clause (2) (b), would be prejudicial to the interests of security of the nation. I know that this has been described as a  Catch 22  provision. I know that editorials, for instance, in the  Courier-Mail  and the  Sydney Morning Herald  have particularly drawn attention to this fact. I do not accept the premise that  Senator Evans  has put forward that it is a reasonable course of action for ASIO to remain silent or that, failing that, one should seek to expand the operation of clause 38 (2) into what might become a more regular practice than it would be under the circumstances of the Bill as it stands at the moment. 
I am certainly concerned, although I may not have any degree of expertise to make judgment, about the extent to which such a provision contravenes an international convention to which Australia is a signatory. But it seems to me that the point that has been put forward by  Senator Missen,  that is, that the decision to deny to an individual Australian citizen any notification of the fact that an adverse security assessment of him exists, should not be left solely in the hands of a person who, whatever his character as AttorneyGeneral, is also nevertheless a partisan political figure who has been elected in a partisan political situation. The suggestion that  Senator Missen  makes for the reference of this matter to the presidential member of the Security Appeals Tribunal and the reliance upon some co-operative endeavour between the Attorney and that presidential member to determine whether in fact the case that is presented by the Attorney to the presidential member is one which is sustainable in terms of denying to an individual Australian citizen the knowledge that he is the subject of an adverse security assessment is one that seems to me to warrant a good deal of consideration by the Minister perhaps in line with the attitude which the Minister has very reasonably taken on the provisions in clause 1 8. 
I believe the principle that says there may be a situation in which an individual should not be told that an adverse assessment exists is probably a sustainable point of view. The question therefore is not a matter of debating that, but a matter of debating whether in fact the civil liberties of the individual concerned are adequately protected by vesting this power in one elected public official or whether they are better protected by vesting them initially in one elected public official, with that official being required to have his decision subject to review or further consideration by a person who has been appointed to a particularly sensitive position as the presidential member of the Security Appeals Tribunal. In that capacity he is going to be a person, if the appeals system means anything, of unquestioned probity and integrity, and a person who is accepted in a bipartisan spirit or accepted throughout the whole of the community as having that particular stature and standing. 
To that extent I believe that the amendment moved by  Senator Evans  simply to delete subclause (2) (a) and consequently to delete subclause (4) founders on the rock of practicality in terms of the administration of security matters in this day and age. But the suggestion that there ought to be some review over and above the unilateral certificate of the Attorney-General ought to commend itself for more serious consideration than appears at the moment to have been given. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Has his attention been drawn to the report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal entitled 'Television and Children' which indicated that a large percentage of children had asked their parents to purchase items which they had seen advertised on television, that in the overwhelming majority of cases parents had bought the items advertised, and that the most popular advertising among children related to food and confectionary items? Further, has the Minister seen the report that the United States Federal Trade Commission has recommended that all television advertising aimed at children under the age of eight be banned, and that all television advertising of presweetened and artificially sweetened products aimed at children under the age of 12 be banned? In light of these findings and the reports of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts on advertising in children's programs, will he ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to give urgent consideration to enforcing stricter guidelines for advertising during children's television programs? 
I wish to make two comments. I appreciate the way in which the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has taken up the proposal that was originally circulated in the name of the Opposition because I think that it will provide an important strengthening of the Bill. As a person who makes no pretence to the necessary extensive legal training to be able to interpret statutes with the facility of Senators Missen and Evans, I wish to clear in my mind the meaning of proposed new clause 40 ( 1 ), which states: 
A person shall not be appointed as a presidential member unless he is or has been a Judge  of a   court . . . 
I also wish to raise a question in relation to proposed new clause 40 (2), which states: 
A person who . . . has been the Director-General or an . . . employee . . . shall not be appointed as a member of the Tribunal. 
I take it that, in fact, that also means that a judge who has been Director-General shall not be appointed as a presidential member and that the clause is to be read in that fashion. Therefore, 1 take it that there is no confusion that a person who has been a judge and also Director-General cannot become a presidential member. 
I make my other point very deliberately in the capacity of a non-lawyer. The Government and Opposition parties have traditionally placed a great deal of faith in the simple fact that people are judges. They believe that judges will ensure that they bring to whatever task they undertake an extraordinary amount of wisdom, sensitivity and perspicacity, simply because at some stage some Government appointed them to be a judge. That may or may not be a belief that is absolutely justified in every single case. I am concerned that a person who has been a judge, who presumably has retired, perhaps as a result of a constitutional amendment relating to age, and who no longer holds the office of a judge shall now be eligible to be appointed to the position of a presidential member. It seems to me that just as there are views in the community that change with the nature of society and that there are individuals in the community who are more or less receptive to changing attitudes, so there are judges, eminent men and women as they may be, who, at the age of 65 years and over, are likely to be less sensitive to what the community regards, in a number of matters, as politically subversive or political undesirable and are therefore likely to attract an adverse security assessment- a view that might not be shared by a person appointed to the bench at a considerably younger age. 
I am concerned that the person selected to fill the particularly important position of presidential member should have not only the necessary judicial and legal qualifications and the necessary experience in dealing with matters but also should be somebody who is acutely sensitive to the changing views of what constitutes civil liberties and to developing ideas of what constitutes proper behaviour. Members of the judiciary sit on cases and make comments about what they think is disgraceful social behaviour. The conduct may well have been considered disgraceful social behaviour when they were inculcated 40 or 50 years ago with views about what proper behaviour was. I think that the fact that we have now decided that the incumbent of this position should be a judge or a former judge is not sufficient of itself. When any appointment is being made- I hope this will be an appointment; I do not think there is any legislative requirement where there will be consultation between the Government and the Leader of the Opposition as to the person who is to be appointed to this sensitive position. It must be somebody in whom there is faith and who has not previously indicated or been felt to indicate certain views of a social or political nature which may have some bearing upon the way in which he reviews a security assessment. He will be a permanent member of whatever tribunal is likely to be sitting, the arbiter of what are matters of law and the person who, by his status, undoubtedly will have some considerable influence on the other members of any tribunal that sits. He will guide them as to the correct way to go about things, the correct factors to take into account when coming to a decision and what sort of weight they should accord to the different types of evidence that is given. I am concerned that the person who occupies this position should possess, in addition to his legal and professional qualifications, the confidence of both sides of the chamber and both sides of the Parliament generally when his appointment is made. He should also be a person who can be relied upon to be sensitive to changing attitudes and to reflect a view of the world, a view of politics and a view of the Australian community that is in tune with what the majority of people believe in contemporary circumstances and not merely a reflection of prejudices which have otherwise been overtaken by time. 
I make some remarks on clause 56. 1 think that it requires from the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  a little further explanation in terms of the point which  Senator Cavanagh  raised. The Royal Commission at paragraph 160 and onwards in its second report in dealing with the position of individuals appearing before the Tribunal, accorded to the Tribunal a limited discretion to permit the parties to appear at the same time and to cross-examine the other party's witnesses. In paragraph 160 the Royal Commission, among other things, said: 
At times there have to be departures from the rules of natural justice. 
It went on to propose a series of procedures. In those procedures it indicated a limited competence to permit the individuals concerned to confront each other and, if necessary, take part in cross-examination. As I understand it, it is now the Government's view that the operation of a security system and the review of appeals are such that even that limited discretion is not to be permitted. The limited discretion was introduced in the Royal Commission report because of the 
Commission's concern that at times there have to be departures from the rules of natural justice. It was prepared to provide this limited confrontation. I think that a little further explanation is required about the way in which the Government has moved from the Royal Commission's recommendation to an even more acutely restricted position. 
-I believe that that discretion is even more limited than the suggestions made in the sections of the Royal Commissioner's report to which I have referred. I notice that in one of the appendices to that report the security review and appeals systems of a number of other countries are considered and outlined. In relation to the United Kingdom, page 1 84 of the report states: 
The person charged and any witnesses he may call, are heard separately and alone by the Advisers, as is the representative of the security service, save that the person charged may be accompanied by a friend who will assist him in presenting his opening statement and will then withdraw. 
Therefore, no right of confrontation is accorded. I understand that in New Zealand although there is some provision for this confrontation it appears to have been necessary in practice for the New Zealand Commissioner to insist that no confrontation should take place.  Senator Evans  rightly pointed out that some discretion is conferred on the Tribunal in sub-section (11) which states: 
The Tribunal may, of its own motion and at any stage of the proceedings, invite a person to give evidence, or cause a person to be summoned to give evidence, and, where it does so, may determine whether either or both of the parties is or are entitled to be present or represented when the evidence is given. 
What it does not do, which the Royal Commission suggestion did, is provide for the right of one of the parties to engage in crossexamination. The person would not sit there simply as a mute witness to the allegations that were being made or the evidence that was being tendered but would be an active participant in challenging the person making the allegations and calling on him to substantiate the matters which were being addressed to him. Although the provision exists in sub-section (11) for the person to be seated as a mute witness, the suggestion that the Royal Commission makes that he should be able to engage in some sort of crossexamination of the case which, in essence, is a case being presented against him, is one that seems to me to be insufficiently explained by what I have been able to read in the explanatory notes and the second reading speech of the Attorney. 
-I would have thought that those words in fact may only mean that some other person on behalf of the person whose rights are being adjudicated upon may have been the mute witness. 
-That is right. The point I am seeking to make is that it may well be that some explanation can be given which will be found absolutely convincing, or at least sufficiently convincing, to accept the way in which the procedures are set out in clause 56. But I am just not persuaded as yet by what I have seen of written material or what I have heard from the Attorney or any other spokesman on this, given the suggestions in the royal commission report and given the fact that the royal commissioner was sufficiently concerned to preface these remarks with the statement 'at times there have to be departures from the rules of natural justice'. A better explanation is required so that we can more properly appreciate the sort of situation in which a person whose character is perhaps under attack, whose livelihood is perhaps under threat, whose civil liberties in any respect may be under threat, is in fact to be denied the opportunity of maximum participation in the process of challenging adverse assessments made against him. It is a departure in this sense. It is a departure from, I suppose, what has been understood as something so fundamental to the British style of justice, that is, the ability to know exactly what it is that one is accused of, exactly who it is that is making the accusations, and a complete ability to participate at a time that the accusations are made in a detailed refutation of those accusations. That is not a matter to be set aside lightly or capriciously. I do not believe it has been set aside lightly or capriciously. I believe it has been set aside for good and sufficient reasons. I am just concerned to be told what those good and sufficient reasons are. 
Perhaps I could ask the Attorney to explain to me the substantial difference between 

 Senator Cavanagh 's amendments, if agreed to, and the position that applies under sub-clause ( 1 1 ). I find it very hard to make judgment, on the run, on  Senator Cavanagh  's suggestion. If subclause (5) were simply to read that "the proceedings shall be in private" and "the tribunal shall determine what persons may be present at any time" and if sub-clauses (6) and (7) were not there- sub-clause (6) states essentially that the applicant or his representative shall not be there when the Director-General is providing information and sub-clause (7) states the DirectorGeneral shall not be there when the applicant is providing the information- what is the essential difference between sub-clause (5) as  Senator Cavanagh  would have it read and sub-clause (11)? Sub-clause (11), with the operation of subclauses (6) and (7) states that the tribunal may:   . , of its own motion and at any stage of the proceedings, invite a person to give evidence, or cause a person to be summoned to give evidence, and, where it does so, may determine whether either or both of the parties is . . . entitled to bc present or represented when the evidence is given. 
I agree entirely. As I said, my difficulty is making a judgment on what  Senator Cavanagh  has brought up. I have had an opportunity, with the previously circulated amendments, to sit down and try to read them within the framework the whole clause to which they refer. I do not know whether the Attorney is amenable to postponing consideration of clause 56. It would, after all be a delay only until a later hour this evening, as we appear to be in a situation of being likely to deal with the remainder of this Bill this evening. I am interested in what information the Attorney could give me on that matter. Otherwise I cannot see what, essentially, constitutes the difference between the power that the tribunal is vested with currently under subclause (11) and sub-clause (12), and the power that the tribunal would still retain if  Senator Cavanagh  's amendments were accepted. 
I wish to make some remarks regarding what is really the substance of amendment No. 19 moved by the Opposition. From a purely theoretical point of view I must say that I find myself very much attracted to a provision that allows for maximum scope of retrospective reconsideration, I suppose one could say, of adverse security assessments. I want to put into the record what  Mr Justice  Hope had to say on this matter in his second report. Paragraph 142 of  His  Honour's report reads as follows: 
A great number of adverse and qualified assessments have been passed to employer authorities by ASIO since it was established in 1949. Many of them have been acted upon. For persons who remain in Australian Government employment, these security assessments, if incorrect, may remain a potential source of injustice in their careers. Even if the subject of such an assessment did not enter Australian Government employment, or if he has now ceased to be in Australian Government employment, his reputation has been affected, not merely within the internal records of ASIO, but also to the knowledge of senior Australian Government officials. The adverse effects, actual or potential, of these assessments will vary from case to case and often will be diminished by the passage of time. Overseas experience suggests that there may not be many of these cases where the person involved will want to take any action about it, but justice requires that a person whose reputation has been unjustly affected in this  way should be entitled to apply to have his name cleared and should be entitled to seek to have the record put right. When ASIO looks again at some of these cases, it may decide that it should not oppose the appeal. However, any person who has been the subject of an adverse or qualified assessment provided by ASIO to an employer authority at any time in the past, should, if he so desires, be entitled to appeal against that assessment and to have his appeal adjudicated upon, even if ASIO does not oppose it. I call these the 'retrospective cases'. 
In paragraph 215, His Honour, in dealing with the Security Appeals Tribunal recommends: 
That the function of the tribunal be to review adverse or qualified security assessments and any supporting information provided by ASIO at any time since it was established. 
The Attorney-General has, I think, rightly presented us with the problem that time may have sufficiently passed past that the individual officer concerned, the person possessing the knowledge, the witness in the case, may no longer be available for examination or cross-examination. The person who rendered the assessment may no longer be alive or may no longer be in the country. He may no longer be sufficiently familiar with the facts of the case. His memory may be defective or the record may be defective. There may be any number of qualifications which, in a practical sense, make it impossible to have this degree of retrospective review. I think that the Attorney-General, recognising this, has proposed, and the Committee has carried, an amendment to clause 38 ( 1 ) so that clause 38 ( 1 ) now reads: 
Subject to sub-section (2), a Commonwealth agency shall not take, refuse to take or refrain from taking prescribed administrative action on the basis of any communication in relation to a person made by the Organization not amounting to a security assessment or on the basis of an adverse or qualified security assessment made by the Organization before the commencement of this Act. 
So the Attorney-General has recognised that to a certain extent it is necessary that those past security assessments should not be regarded in the same light as a security assessment now made in a situation in which it is subject to some further verification or to some further appeal. As  Senator Button  has pointed out, clause 63 provides:  the Minister may, if he is satisfied that it is desirable to do so by reason of special circumstance, require the Tribunal to inquire and report to him upon any question concerning that action or alleged action of the Organization . . . 
That relates to assessments which have come into existence before the commencement of the Act. In the first instance there is a requirement that limits the use to which adverse security assessments may be put in terms of making determinations under clause 38. The second point relates to the Minister's power to give directions to the tribunal. Apart from being able to withhold from individuals the fact that they have an adverse security assessment, this provision puts in the hands of the Minister a fairly considerable power in relation to the civil rights and liberties of individual citizens. Those provisions have recognised at least part of the problem that is involved in the existence of security assessments made by ASIO prior to the commencement of this Bill where no review by the tribunal is otherwise available. 
I think the mechanism which the Opposition has sought to establish in its amendment No. 19 is not a workable series of proposals. It is not workable for the reasons to which I alluded earlier, namely the problems that will always be confronted in attempting to make some retrospective judgment in what frequently will be the absence of the key personnel whose assessment, testimony and evidence need to be examined before any meaningful review is able to be commenced by the tribunal. As a result, I do not support the way in which the Opposition has sought to approach the question of retrospective judgment of adverse security assessments. I am therefore thrown back very largely on the sort of situation to which  Senator Button  referred- I think with some degree of disquiet- that is, that to a large extent the rights, reputation, liberty and perhaps even the future career prospects of individual Australian citizens will be in large part determined by the personal attitude of whoever happens to be the Attorney-General. That Attorney-General will have under the existing legislation the power to require the Tribunal to undertake the review in what the Act calls special circumstances'. 
I do not know what 'special circumstances' are. Presumably they will vary from Attorney to Attorney. They will probably vary with the passage of time. Judgments will be made as to whether special circumstances in relation to an assessment made in 1 950 are inherently different from special circumstances in relation to an assessment made in 1977. I think the degree to which the Minister's personal responsibility is involved is greater than I would have been prepared to countenance if I believed that a situation of a practical nature existed in which this review could be undertaken. I am concerned that in all the departures that this Bill contains from the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope this is probably one of the most, if not the most, significant.  His  Honour was moved to report that situations of this nature could arise in which a person's reputation, unbeknown to him, had been prejudiced in the judgment of people who might still be significant figures in Australian Government administration. 
We all know that there have been significant figures in government administration. They have been around in positions of some substance for a considerable time. One has only to look at a prominent official such as  Sir Arthur  Tange. He has been a permanent head for almost a quarter of a century, if not longer. He is probably one of those officials who at some stage has had drawn to his attention the security assessment of a particular individual who might still be around and who might still be looking either for promotion or appointment to a particular position.  Sir Arthur  Tange might have in his mind a vague recollection that in the early 1950s he was told that this person was a security risk, that there was something suspicious about him or that some adverse knowledge about him was held in the records of ASIO. 
Precisely. It may or may not be correct. Whether this will constitute in every case what the Minister of the day will perceive as a special circumstance is a very fine judgment. If there were a mechanism whereby the review of these assessments could be undertaken thoroughly, not on a selective basis but on a more comprehensive and wide-ranging basis than is proposed either in the legislation or in the Opposition amendment, I would be very attracted to it if it were a practical method of solving this problem. One does not need to go very far to understand the value of a name and a reputation. The prophets wrote in the Old Testament about it. A good name, says the Bible, is more precious than fine ointment. I hope that that attitude is one that the Minister would carry in his mind. The review may not even demand an immediate practicality. It may not be that the aggrieved individual is seeking a particular government job or promotion. It may be simply that somewhere on the public records of the Australian Government there is an adverse comment about him which is untrue and which by its very nature he ought to have recourse to have expunged. 
I do not presume to prejudge or even trespass upon the possible breach of privilege by commenting on what the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs recommend regarding access to personal files and documents when it comes to dealing with the question of freedom of information. But I do not think it amounts to any breach of privilege to say that that is one of the issues which has concerned the Committee in some detail. Although the Minister is in a position to give an assurance about the sensitivity with which he will approach the question of what constitutes special circumstances, he is obviously in no position to give that assurance in a fashion that is binding upon any successor. I think it ought to be drawn to his attention, to the attention of the Government and to the attention of anybody concerned with security assessments that almost whenever there is a request for the review of an adverse determination made before this Bill becomes law that should be considered prima facie a special circumstance and any person so aggrieved should have the right to appeal to the Minister, not as  Senator Button  would say as his adversary but as his friend, to ensure that the tribunal is given the opportunity to review that case and, if necessary, make correction. 
By the time that this legislation has been passed and is operative the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  will probably be able to lay claim to the most focused mind of any individual in the Australian Commonwealth. The Opposition amendment, however, is one that I find curious in a number of respects, not the least of which, as I read what is printed on the circulated list of Opposition amendments, is amendment No. 20, which reads: 
Page 33, clause 90, sub-clause 2, lines 5 and 6, leave out the sub-clause. 
The sub-clause now reads: 
Nothing in this section applies to the broadcasting or reporting of proceedings in the Parliament. 
I must say that I find it most extraordinary for a parliamentary Opposition to seek to move as an amendment to a piece of legislation that some limitation upon the free speech of an individual shall, nevertheless, not apply to the proceedings or the broadcastings of a parliament. Some refuge might be taken in argument about parliamentary privilege. If one considers what various Opposition spokesmen have said over a period about the doctrine of parliamentary privilege, it is fair to comment that this approach is extraordinary. Neither  Senator Button  or  Senator Evans  addressed any remarks to removal of that sub-clause. If, in fact, the real substance of the Opposition amendment is simply to make amendments to sub-clause 1 to limit its operations, that would be fair enough.  (Quorum formed.)  Before  Senator Walsh  decided to make his first contribution in the 25 hours of this debate- a constructive contribution as it may be- I was drawing the attention of honourable senators to the fact that the Australian Labor Party has proposed an amendment to delete the protection of Parliament and parliamentarians from the operations of this legislation by seeking to delete sub-clause (2) of clause 90 which would give a protection, in terms of the matter of dealing with the names of ASIO agents, with regard to the broadcasting or reporting of proceedings in the Parliament. 
The second point I wish to raise is that the Opposition has rightly drawn attention to the fact that a prosecution for the offence of revealing the name of an employee or agent of the Organisation or a person who is in any way connected with such an officer, employee or agent needed to have some limitation placed upon it. The Attorney-General has foreshadowed in proposed new sub-clause (3) that such a prosecution should occur only where the consent of the Attorney-General has been given. So I believe that any prosecution which takes place under that clause will be known to be a prosecution to which the Attorney-General has personally paid attention and which the AttorneyGeneral has decided should be launched. I do not think it really tells us very much about the future operations of ASIO to deal at length with the incident that occurred at the University of 
Papua New Guinea or with the incident involving  Mr Peter  Coleman. I am convinced that, since both the publication of  Mr Justice  Hope's report and the introduction of this piece of legislation, the operations of the Organisation are in far more rational hands. I do not think that particular incidents from the past lend very much weight to the argument. 
The publication by the Committee for the Abolition of Political Police of the names of some persons alleged to be staff members of ASIO has been referred to. This publication is to be found in an article in the  Age  of 22 March. A later publication on 24 March lists 31 people in Melbourne and seven or eight people in Sydney who are alleged to be staff members of ASIO. This matter was raised with the AttorneyGeneral by way of a question in this place on 3 April, to which he replied: 
Publication of this sort of material, whether it is true or false, is a serious matter Tor a security organisation. 
It is also, I might add, a serious matter for the civil liberties and rights of the individuals whose names have been published and whose addresses have been published- and published in a way that I think is damaging both to their personal reputation and to their personal privacy and security. When asked what redress was available to these individuals, the AttorneyGeneral stated: 
The individuals, of course, can consider their own positions and obtain their own legal advice. 
I presume that means that in this instance the protection which prior to the introduction of this Bill one would have thought ought to have been extended to employees of the Commonwealth in their capacity as employees of the Security Organisation was not to be extended to them; that no assistance was to be extended to them by their employer, the Commonwealth Government. To that extent I welcome the way in which this clause has been placed in the Bill and the amendment that has been circulated in the name of the Attorney-General. It is most surprising that, given the attempt to delete sub-clause (2),  Mrs Coxsedge  might well find that the publication of this document by its simply being put out on the streets would land her in some trouble; whereas, under the Government's proposal, if she simply read the list into the  Hansard  of the Victorian Legislative Council she would be protected. Presumably, under the Opposition amendment she would not be protected even in that circumstance if sub-clause (2) were to be removed. 
Dealing with the way in which the AttorneyGeneral is going to have to focus his mind upon a series of conditions which have to be met, such as those proposed by sub-clause 2 (a) and (b) of the Opposition amendment, I notice that, whilst it refers to an action that allegedly endangers the physical safety of the officer, employee or agent, it does not say anything about the right of privacy of the officer, employee or agent and it does not say anything about the physical safety of the members of his family, which I would have thought would have been a reasonable thing to include if one were concerned to afford real protection not only to the individuals concerned but also to the people who are dependent upon them, such as members of their family and other people who may live at the published address of the alleged ASIO agent. 
I find the Opposition amendment, therefore, defective in at least these two aspects: Firstly, the attempt to abolish the qualification which gives protection to members of the Parliament in the statements that they might make in the Parliament; and, secondly, the extent of sub-clause (a) of the Opposition's proposal as to what must be prejudiced in terms of the personal physical safety of the officer. I find it to be both limiting and restrictive in a way that I would not be prepared to support. By contrast, the AttorneyGeneral is proposing to move an amendment whereby, as I said previously, it will be quite clear when a prosecution is launched under this clause that it has been launched only because the Attorney-General has considered it and decided to launch it. That undoubtedly raises it as a matter in respect of which the Attorney-General must be prepared to answer in this Parliament or in any other appropriate forum for his actions. One would have thought that the possibility of the Attorney-General 's being questioned here or in another place day by day or perhaps being pressed by the media to demonstrate how and why he has come to a decision to prosecute X, but perhaps not to prosecute Y who is known to have undertaken the same activity, would have been a very substantial limitation upon the way in which clause 90 would become operative, and a far more substantial limitation than that proposed by the Opposition. 
It is for those reasons that I consider that the Opposition amendment is unsatisfactory and that the proposed amendment of the AttorneyGeneral would take care of most of the problems. I should add that I would not have been prepared to make such remarks unless the Attorney-General had introduced the qualification that he proposes to introduce by the insertion of the new sub-clause (3) in clause 90. Given that he intends to do that, I find that there is nothing in the Opposition amendment that attracts my support. 
The way in which the Royal Commissioner approached this matter ought to be introduced at least in part into the debate. As the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has indicated, the phrase which Opposition senators find so objectionable is basically an attempt to give legislative form to an expression which the Royal Commissioner used. In discussing the whole question of the accountability to Parliament in volume one of the fourth report the royal commissioner indicated firstly: 
The problem of the accountability of the Director-General and of the organisation generally to the Parliament has given me very great trouble but I have come to the conclusion, as did the Canadian Royal Commission on Security, that I should not recommend that there should be a parliamentary committee to scrutinize or supervise ASIO 's activities. 
He went on to make some remarks about the Parliament and then addressed himself to the question of the position of the Leader of the Opposition after a discussion about what he believed to be the elements of bipartisanship that this legislation needed. In paragraph 463 of the report he said: 
I have come to the conclusion that no useful purpose would be served by presentation of an annual report to Parliament. I shall not recommend the institution of such a system. I have already proposed the presentation by ASIO of an annual, classified report to the Government. It should bc shown, under 'Executive Councillor' conditions, to the Leader of the Opposition, as part of the Prime Minister's arrangements for consultation with him on matters of intelligence and security. 
To give statutory effect to the phrase 'Executive Councillor conditions' will obviously be a difficult task for the Government. I do not know that any piece of statute law other than perhaps the Constitution itself recognises a particular position for people who are members of the Executive Council. Therefore, the Government's proposed amendment which says that it is the duty of the Leader of the Opposition to treat the report as secret is the formula which picks up the royal commissioners' comment about Executive Councillor conditions. 
It was interesting in listening to the speeches of several Opposition senators to see the different way in which they approached what that meant.  Senator Tate  has already been rebuked by  Senator Evans. Senator Tate  is often rebuked by  Senator Evans  in another context. He was rebuked for making comments about conscience and duty to the people.  Senator Evans  found those comments did not somehow sufficiently advance the proposition he supported. An exchange took place between  Senator Tate  and  Senator Cavanagh  by way of interjection as to whether the Leader of the Opposition revealed the details of the annual report in line with what Senate Tate saw as his duty to the people of Australia and what  Senator Cavanagh  saw as his responsibility to the members of his Party. I think the prohibition upon the Attorney-General or any Minister of the Crown who has access to the document referred to in this legislation discussing it with members of his Party should equally apply to the Leader of the Opposition in terms of the limitation that is placed on him when discussing it with members of his party or anyone else. In paragraph 462 of the Royal Commissioner's report he described the annual report of ASIO as follows: 
But it must be recognised that, with so much of ASIO's work secret, very little of real value to the Parliament, which is a public forum, could be provided. 
But if an annual report were provided to the Leader of the Opposition and if it were a report that went further than that because it was understood that Parliament is not a public forum- in other words, it revealed details to the Attorney and to the Leader of the Opposition that it would not be able to reveal in the public forum because both of them have a duty to protect the secrecy of it- the Leader of the Opposition clearly would have recourse to pursue the matter with the Minister or with the Government at that level and not simply to pursue it in any organised or disorganised fashion in the forum of Parliament, the media or anywhere else. I think that to some extent the secrecy provisions or the executive counsellor provisions are a protection for the Leader of the Opposition to prevent his own political party- be it the current Opposition party or the present coalition Government parties in opposition- putting pressure on the Leader of the Opposition to reveal to his party under some threat from it the details of the security report to which he has access. 
The exchange that took place in part between  Senator Evans  and  Senator Chipp  was also revealing.  Senator Chipp  was making a point about documents required to be regarded as confidential by executive counsellors.  Senator Evans  interjected to ask what would happen if some low ranking clerk in the Department of Defence with a twitchy wrist stamped the words 'secret' or 'confidential ' on any piece of paper that came across his desk. The situation with which we are dealing is not one - 
-No. What I am saying is that the interjection that suggested that somehow simply because somebody else along the line tried to elevate a document into the status of being confidential that it would bind an executive counsellor, a Minister, or a Leader of the Opposition simply draws a red herring across the whole debate. Quite clearly the report that  Mr Justice  Hope envisages as constituting the annual report of ASIO will be something that contains material which of its very nature is critical to the operations of the security service. The report that goes to the Minister obviously will be of sufficient status or detail to allow the Minister to make some sort of evaluation of the extent of the work. It would give perhaps the number of warrants, the number of telephone taps that have occurred, the amount of surveillance, the number of agents or anything else like this that would allow the Attorney properly to carry out his ministerial function of oversight of the Organisation. Clearly, any Director-General who in a secret annual report to the Minister did not reveal these details would be quite derelict in his duty. The Attorney and perhaps the Prime Minister or whoever else in on the ministerial security committee or whatever is bound by the oath regarding the confidentiality of a document which is obviously and indisputably a document of high security classification. lt cannot be presumed that another combative political figure whose interest- indeed whose responsibility- is to bring down the Government, should be given that document with free access and free rein. It may well be that  Senator Tate  and his colleagues believe that only a matter of high conscience or absolute principle would cause the Leader of the Opposition to reveal the information. That question of high conscience and high principle may equally apply to the Attorney or to a Minister of the Government who finds something disturbing in that document. Yet as executive counsellors they are not provided with the sanction free situation of being allowed to run the document around the Press Gallery to conduct a campaign that may come to their minds. 
I said it would equally apply perhaps to another Minister of the same government who might find dispute with-- 
Yes, the Government Whip should equally be bound by the oath. It would undoubtedly stop me and others from pressing the Government Whip to reveal to us for any purpose what is in a document. That is why I said earlier that I believe that this provision provides some sort of security and protection of the position of the Leader of the Opposition because everybody else knows that his legal responsibility is not to reveal the contents of the document. In that sense I see it in fact as a protection of the Leader of the Opposition from pressures that may be applied to him to make known the contents of the document. 
The final point that I wish to make is about what sanctions, if any, exist. I presume that by and large in a parliamentary democracy the real sanctions that exist against the misbehaviour of Prime Ministers, Ministers, Leaders of the Opposition or members are basically not particularly legal sanctions. They are sanctions which the Parliament imposes upon people whom it regards as being in breach of their duty and responsibility or sanctions which the electorate imposes on them. It may well be that the only sanction that the Government has is to bring in a piece of legislation the following year to repeal this part of the legislation to ensure that the report is not made available to the Leader of the Opposition in the future. I believe that this clause in fact gives protection to the Leader of the Opposition. It lies very squarely within the recommendation of  Mr Justice  Hope. It ensures that the position of the Leader of the Opposition in possession of this report is no different from the position of a Minister of the Crown in possession of this report. The amendment moved by the Attorney-General should be supported in the form in which it comes before the chamber. 
Amendment to amendment negatived. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Proposed new clauses 92a and 92B. 
I will also try to make my shortest contribution. I believe that in many cases the principle of sunset legislation will have to become a more standard practice in the drawing of legislation both in this Parliament and in other Australian parliaments. We have already seen one example of what I suppose could be called sunset legislation. That concerned the surcharge on income tax. It was written into legislation with a specific date upon which it would cease to operate. Any attempt to extend that time would require further legislation. The amendment which  Senator Missen  moved, however, seems to me to be on somewhat more dangerous ground simply because of the nature of the Bill and the organisation to which he seeks to attach a sunset clause. Sunset legislation in this country and even in the United States is still very much an experiment, although, in many ways, it is a very valuable experiment. However, I do not believe that this is the organisation or legislation upon which that experiment should at this early stage- almost the first stage- be put to the test. 
-Has the AttorneyGeneral 's attention been drawn to Press reports indicating that the Government might be considering either buying or building an official residence for the Chief Justice when the High Court of Australia moves to Canberra? Given the shortage of funds in a number of areas and the shortage of funds for people in cases of genuine need, can the Attorney-General confirm or deny these extraordinary reports? 
-by leave-  Mr President,  I rise to offer my congratulations to the Government, and particularly to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  for at last taking the necessary steps to establish this inquiry. Although, as  Senator Ryan  has said, it was suggested in  Mr Green's  report of 1 976 that an inquiry of this nature would be needed, it had in fact been suggested at a far earlier stage. In 1 974, a report presented to this Parliament by McKinsey and Co., entitled 'Australian Broadcasting Commission Resources', made it quite clear that there was need for a comprehensive review of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. That report commenced by saying: 
We - 
That is, the consultants-   . . are convinced that many of the basic problems facing the Australian Broadcasting Commission . . . stem directly from its special characteristics as an organisational form. 
It has taken us from 1974 until now to get to this stage of an inquiry. I hope the inquiry will be as productive as the inquiry conducted by Lord Annan into the nature of broadcasting in Great Britain, when the review of broadcasting matters in the light of current developments allowed the British broadcasting system as a whole to be set in a number of new directions in a very profitable and productive fashion. For instance, we know of the case that Professor Harding attempted to make out in his recent book on Australian broadcasting. Without agreeing with the conclusions drawn by Professor Harding, I think that many of the matters that he raises as matters requiring attention are ones that ought to fall within the scope of this inquiry. 
I note that the committee of inquiry is to consist of three persons. I note also that it has been suggested elsewhere that one of those persons might be drawn from overseas and that, in particular, the name of  Sir Hugh  Greene, the former Director of the British Broadcasting Corporation, has been mentioned. I hope that the Government will take the opportunity to select, as one of the members of this inquiry, a person who has had extensive experience of national broadcasting services outside Australia.  Sir Hugh  is the sort of person who would be admirably fitted to that role. In addition to his work with the BBC, in 1973 he completed a report on the establishment and restructuring of the Israel Broadcasting Authority and in 1975 he did the same thing in Greece. I think that an extremely valuable addition to the inquiry would be the appointment of somebody who has an appreciation of national broadcasting systems in other countries.  His  appointment would be of benefit to the people who are not the usual run of AngloSaxon viewers of Australian television. When the three commissioners are selected, I think that somebody who has had that broad range of experience should certainly be considered. 
Once again the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  has demonstrated an awareness of the fact that broadcasting is changing in a very marked fashion and that there is a need for structures such as those related to the national broadcasting system to be brought up to date whenever possible. I hope that this inquiry will be a productive one, and one in which the Government will find initiatives which it will be able to follow being proposed. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs say whether Australia allows the importation of the furs, hides or skins of animals that are listed as protected by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species? Has the Minister seen recent reports in the  New Scientist  and elsewhere that the World Wildlife Fund has called for a total ban on the importation of a number of these skins, including those of the spotted cats? Does he agree that the protection of endangered species is far more important than is catering to the fashion demands of the matrons of Bellevue Hill or Toorak? Finally, will he open discussions with his various colleagues to see whether the Customs Act could be amended to prohibit entirely such imports or, better still, enact new legislation along the lines of the United Kingdom Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to recent reports by various groups of jurists in the United States about the number of persons alleged to have disappeared, been tortured or imprisoned by the fascist regime in Argentina? Has his attention been drawn to Press reports today indicating that, in preparation for the visit of  His  Holiness, Pope John Paul II, to Poland, the communist government of that country is involved in the systematic rounding up of alleged dissidents and people who might wish to make contact with  His  Holiness, and confining them  to  psychiatric institutions? What action does the Australian Government intend to take on these two matters to bring them to the attention of some appropriate international forum such as the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, of which Australia is a member? 
It seems to me that two matters arise from what has occurred today: First, the incident involving the answers given by Ministers in this place and the comment made by  Senator Carrick  about whether Ministers were misleading, or the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Button)  was misleading; and secondly, the issue about government policy as far as the Great Barrier Reef is concerned. I would have thought on the first matter that both  Senator Webster  before lunch in his apology to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and  Senator Carrick  after lunch in making quite clear his apology and withdrawing his remarks about  Senator Button  having misled the Senate, had quite clearly indicated that the misunderstanding or the misinformation upon which they had acted had been taken into account by them. They had both personally withdrawn and apologised for any imputations made about  Senator Button  misleading the Senate. I do not think  Senator McLaren  could deny that both of those Ministers have made an unqualified withdrawal of any imputation made against  Senator Button  today. 
The second point involves a matter of policy. I was intrigued to hear one of the accusations made by honourable senators opposite- that Ministers in this chamber are unaware of the events or the answers that are given at the other end of the building. I would have thoughtalthough I was not here at the time, at least I know a little about it- that the events of 1 1 November 1975 would have demonstrated that it is perfectly possible for something to be occurring at one end of the building and for honourable senators at the other end of the building not to have the faintest idea about what is going on. I would have thought that the accusation that 
Ministers in the Senate are not instantly aware of the answers that are being given in the House of Representatives comes ill from a group of senators or members of a political party who sit on the other side ofthe chamber largely because they themselves were not aware on a certain date of what was happening just across Kings Hall. 
The question that arises in terms of policy is a simple one. An explanation has been given by a Minister in another place that because he misheard or misunderstood a question that was put to him he gave an answer that was not correct. He has corrected that. What in fact his statement reveals is that the answer given by  Senator Webster  about the position in respect of the proclamation of Great Barrier Reef Marine Park and the constitutional problems which have led to that not yet being proclaimed was a perfectly correct answer. It was perfectly in line with the assurances that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have given on repeated occasions for the benefit of any honourable senator or any honourable member who is interested in establishing what happens to be government policy on the matter. 
Comments have been made that  Mr Newman  is expressing the view of his Department regarding the status of permits Q/4P and Q/5P or that problems are going to arise in terms of the proclamation of the Marine Park. It may well be that any department has a particular view on the issue of the Barrier Reef. But the view of a particular department as to how to approach a problem is not the central issue when there is a superior view and that is the view put by the Cabinet collectively or by the Government. Anybody who believes that every department has the same view on every matter obviously displays no understanding of the processes by which government policy comes into operation.  Mr Newman's  department may have a view or a policy which may not necessarily be exactly in the terms of the Government's policy. It may well be. But that is not central to the question. What is central to the question is not what  Mr Newman's  department thinks about the matter. It is what the Cabinet, what the Government and what the Prime Minister has expressed time and again as the policy of this Government. 
In answer to numerous questions, and particularly in a full answer to a question asked by  Mr Simon  in the House of Representatives on 22 May, the Prime Minister made the policy clear. That policy has been repeated time and again in this place, lt has been repeated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It has been repeated by the Attorney-General who has gone through the detailed constitutional problems that arise- whether the matter relates to arrangements under the Federal-State agreement, whether it relates to decisions in respect of the seas and submerged lands legislation and so on.  Senator Webster  has repeated the policy time and again. He did so again today in an answer that was absolutely true and absolutely accurate. No member of this chamber could say that it was not a proper expression of government policy about the proclamation of the park, the constitutional position ofthe Federal Government and the policy of the Government. We have heard all this humbug and cant in an attempt to build a case based on one word here and one word there or on the explanation that honourable senators opposite do not accept that  Mr Newman  did not hear or did not understand the question. On that shaky and slim foundation, honourable senators opposite have attempted to build a great edifice of accusations when they know, because they have been told repeatedly, the policy of the Government on this matter. That shows just how little honourable senators opposite have to contribute towards a constructive debate or to any debate that has taken place in this chamber in the last couple of days. 
The issue as to whether  Senator Carrick  was correct in making an accusation or a suggestion that Sentor Button had given misleading information, has been dealt with by a full apology from both Ministers concerned. The question of what is the Government's policy on the reef has been spelt out again today, firstly, by  Mr Newman  in terms of retracting an answer because the answer was not in accordance with the facts because he misheard - 
I thought that even  Senator McLaren  was capable of understanding the proposition that if he had misheard something and given an incorrect answer, he would be a fool not to correct it at a later stage without any imputation that on either occasion the truth was not being stated. Quite simply, the explanation that  Mr Newman  now gives, that he misheard or misunderstood, is one that I would have thought even honourable senators opposite would have been able to understand. However, they do not wish to understand, they are not prepared to understand and they are not prepared to comprehend that the Prime Minister and his Ministers have stated repeatedly the policy of the Government on the Great Barrier Reef, from which none of them has resiled one inch. The nonsense that has been put. up about who knows what in terms of what is going on at the other end of the building in an attempt to say that the policy of the Government has altered in any way from the unequivocal statements that the Prime Minister has given time and time again that no drilling or development will be permitted that does any damage to the Barrier Reef, simply indicates the extent to which the Australian Labor Party in this place and elsewhere is attempting deliberately to mislead the people of Australia and is choosing deliberately to ignore what stands as incontrovertible evidence about the policy of this Government. 
I take the opportunity of speaking to the first reading of these money Bills to focus some attention on a matter of concern to a large number of my electors of New South Wales. I refer to certain pieces of legislation and the way in which they have been passed through the New South Wales Parliament. In the period of the forty-fifth Parliament of New South Wales, from May 1976 until September 1978, the Parliament of that State sat for 131 days. That represents an average of roughly one day per week. In the course of those 131 sitting days 290 pieces of legislation were passed. The legislation tended to be of a fairly routine and non-controversial character. For instance, the notorious New South Wales Summary Offences Act was in no way discussed in the forty-fifth Parliament. During this period the Government of Premier Neville Wran built itself a reputation, which was sustained by comments in the media, as being a government of moderation and fairness with middleoftheroad policies. That led the Wran Government to a successful election last year. 
Last year the forty-sixth Parliament of New South Wales sat on 7 November following the election and rose a matter of weeks ago having sat for a total of 4 1 days. In the course of those 41 days 206 Bills were passed by the New South Wales Parliament. That compares with 290 in the previous Parliament which lasted almost three years. However, of those 206 pieces of legislation fully 53 were guillotined through. I understand that the role and function of parliament to scrutinise legislation is of exceptional importance. During a speech by  Senator Chaney  today,  Senator O  'Byrne at one stage interjected to comment that Parliament is becoming a farce. He meant that in terms of what I believe he saw as the inability of the Parliament adequately to scrutinise and to discuss major pieces of legislation. The Australian Labor Party, in its own platform, constitution and rules as approved at the Perth 1977 conference, under the heading: Machinery of Government' stated at item 37, that it is the Labor Party's policy to: 
Strengthen the capacity of the Parliament to scrutinise the activities of the ad ministration. 
In speaking on the first reading of these Bills I wish to scrutinise the activities of the executive Government of New South Wales by the Parliament. As I said, of the 206 Bills passed in the 4 1 days the guillotine was applied to 53. In the last 1 1 days of sitting the gag was applied to 1 7 members who rose to speak. I will discuss certain pieces of legislation in respect of which this treatment was meted out. We know that the New South Wales Parliament and its forms have been used in a way that I believe honourable senators would not countenance in this place. Question 
Time in the Parliament of New South Wales occasionally sees Ministers taking 25 minutes to answer questions and there have been occasions on which, in the 45 minutes allowed for Question Time, only two questions have been permitted. Some time ago the Minister for Consumer Affairs in New South Wales used Question Time to launch a scurrilous attack on the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales,  Mr Bruce  McDonald, the member for Kirribilli, over certain false allegations which, of course, he would not have dared to make outside the Parliament. 
The forms of the Parliament are important. Honourable senators know the value of the urgency debate and the debate on matters of public importance. They play a vital role in having issues discussed. They are important weapons in the parliamentary armoury. The Opposition should be able to bring forward matters of public importance, to lay them before the Parliament and before some form of scrutiny. The Opposition in New South Wales has not been permitted to introduce a single matter into the Parliament for debate as a matter of public importance. For instance, it has proposed that corruption in the Department of Motor Transport, which is now the subject of a magisterial investigation, funding of community health services, the question of organised crime in New South Wales, the question of the Port Kembla coal loader and the very important issue of the escape of notorious criminals such as Cribb and Munday, should be discussed as matters of public importance in the Parliament of New South Wales. At no stage have any matters of public importance been permitted by the Government of New South Wales to be discussed in the Parliament of New South Wales. 
I turn now to five pieces of considerably sensitive and vital legislation and indicate the way in which the Government of New South Wales has treated them in the Parliament. I refer firstly to the Summary Offences Act. The Summary Offences Act is an important piece of legislation in New South Wales which controls criminal sanction on issues such as vagrancy, drunkenness and prostitution. In terms of the Acts total repeal, the amendments were passed in a period of less than 24 hours. No public debate was permitted on this Bill. No legislation was enacted to replace any of the provisions of the Summary Offences Act. The Opposition was not given the opportunity to discuss it in any detail. The third reading and the entire committee stage procedures of the Bill were put to the Parliament in one motion and without debate, despite the fact that it is an extremely large and complex piece of legislation involving a number of critical social issues which deserve to have full public discussion. 
I have no personal objection to the repeal of some sections of the Summary Offences Act. It has been a bad Act in many ways for a long time. But to treat an important piece of legislation in that fashion, I believe, is not a proper thing for a Parliament to countenance. The shadow Attorney-General in New South Wales, the member for Ku-ring-gai,  Mr John  Maddison, called for a three month delay in the proclamation of the Act in order to do two things; to permit public discussion of what had occurred and to look at what might be introduced as alternative methods of controlling public nuisances, which the Summary Offences Act was designed to cover. That was rejected out of hand. The Bill was rushed through the Parliament without debate and proclaimed as law almost immediately. 
The Crimes (Amendment) Bill attempted to remove one of the most sacred rights that people in democratic systems have, that is, the right of trial by jury. The latest edition of the platform, constitution and rules of the Australian Labor Party under the heading of 'law reform and civil rights' says that the Australian Labor Party is committed to: 
Trial by jury to be preserved and extended as Tar as practicable in all serious and criminal cases and responsibility for jury service to be the same for both sexes. 
Nobody could disagree with that and I believe that any government that attempted to abrogate the principle of trial by jury would have a great deal to answer for. But in New South Wales, in a debate that lasted three hours and 43 minutes, an attempt was made by the Attorney-General to abolish trial by jury in the face of opposition from groups such as the Council for Civil Liberties and the Labor lawyers organisation. Again, no facility was provided for adequate debate of that legislation by the Opposition. Three hours and 43 minutes later the Crimes (Amendment) Bill, with some changes forced by public opinion, was on the statute book. 
The Public Service Bill received three hours and 14 minutes of attention in the Parliament. At the time that it was read for a second time in the Parliament of New South Wales, no member of the Parliament of New South Wales, other than the Premier possessed a copy of the Bill. It was introduced, and only after it was read for a second time was a copy given to the Leader of the Opposition  Mr John  Mason. It was a draft copy with hand-written changes and annotations on it. It was in that form that the Bill was pushed through the Parliament of New South Wales. 
This Bill is very contentious. It says, for instance, that the head of any public service department shall be appointed solely by the Minister responsible for that Department. No other authority, Public Service board or committee has any role in the appointment of a permanent head. He is appointed solely at the discretion of the Minister. The Bill abolishes entirely the inspectorial system in the New South Wales Public Service. It is a subversion of the recommendations put forward to the Government of New South Wales by the Wilenski committee which investigated the New South Wales Public Service. During the course of the three hours and 14 minutes permitted for this Bill, with no copy of it being made available to any member of the Opposition, save the Leader of the Opposition who was given a hand corrected draft copy, this Bill was steam-rollered through the Parliament of New South Wales. There can be no better indication than that of the lack of parliamentary scrutiny. 
The Redistribution Bill is another fundamental Bill in New South Wales. It places into the State Constitution certain provisions in an Electoral Act providing for the redistribution of electorates and for enshrining in the State Constitution the discredited principle of optional preferential voting. Such a system now can be changed only by a referendum of the people of New South Wales. But the Premier and the Government determined that no referendum would be held to put the legislation into the Constitution, because they knew the nature of the Bill. That Bill was rushed through, again with no debate except for the contributions of the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the National Party. Members such as the member for Lane Cove,  Mr John  Dowd, the member for Mosman,  Mr David  Arblaster, the member for Northcott,  Mr Jim  Cameron- people who have particular expertise in electoral matters- were not allowed to speak. When introducing the Bill on 10 April, and insisting that it go through all stages on 12 April, the Premier said that the Bill was an urgent Bill which required urgent attention. The legislation itself states that a redistribution 'shall be made forthwith'. It was said to be a matter of urgency. To date, nothing has happened. 
The prize in this saga goes to the Evidence Bill which I shall discuss at length. It was introduced into the Parliament of New South Wales and the Opposition was given only 14 minutes to speak during the whole of that debate. Let me tell honourable senators what the Evidence Bill says. 
It is a Bill that regulates the release of government information to the courts. The amendment to clause 6 1 of the principal Act reads: 
When the Attorney General certifies in writing that in his opinion: 
any communication described in the certificate, or any communication relating to a matter so described, is a government communication and is confidential: and 
the disclosure of the communication in any legal proceedings described in the certificate is not in the public interest, the communication shall not be disclosed in or in relation to those legal proceedings or be admissible in evidence in those legal proceedings. 
A certificate issued under subsection ( 1 ) shall, without any court having examined, or heard a record of, the communications so certified or having inquired into the power of the Attorney General to give the certificate, be accepted in the legal proceedings described in the certificate as conclusive that the communication is a government communication and is confidential and that the disclosure of the communication in those legal proceedings is not in the public interest. 
It goes on to state that the person presiding in court has a responsibility. Proposed new section 62 provides that, if 'it appears to the person presiding in the court before which the legal proceedings are held or taken that the communication is a government communication', that person has the responsibility to stop the proceedings and to ask the Attorney-General whether the Attorney-General wishes to issue a certificate to prevent him in the court from examining the document further. What is a government communication? A government communication is defined in the Bill as follows:  government communication' means a written or oral communication relating to the business of government at senior level, including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a written or oral communication relating to 
proceedings of Cabinet, of a committee of Cabinet or of the Executive Council; 
the formulation of government policy; or 
c) government administration at senior level. 
That will preclude any court in New South Wales from examining, inquiring into, or in any other way looking at that communication. In debating this matter, a debate which took a whole 42 minutes from the beginning to the final vote on the motion that the Bill be read a third timejust 42 minutes- the Opposition was given 14 minutes to speak. Its principal speaker, its only speaker, was gagged after he had been on his feet for 14 minutes. This is a very serious piece of legislation. The  Sydney Morning Herald  editorial of 8 May 1979 had this to say about the Bill: 
This goes against the trend towards open Government and greater governmental accountability. The legislation is dangerous and should be taken off the Statute books. 
An article appeared, again in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  on 3 May 1979, written by a very prominent Sydney solicitor,  Mr Frank  Hoffey which concluded with these words about the Attorney-General: 
He appears to view himself as able to be the Crown's senior law officer as well as the judge of what is just and equitable for members of the community. 

 Mr John Maddison, the shadow Minister responsible for debate by the Opposition on the Bill said on the program  Nationwide  on 26 April 1 979 that his view was as follows: 
Well I believe a judge should determine the question of crown privilege as to whether or not government information, government communication relating to the affairs of government at a senior level, and that those people, the judges, are in the best position to determine whether the public interest is in having that information before a court, and where talking about information before a court maybe straight information or information which is admissible in evidence, and 1 don't believe nor does the opposition party believe that the Attorney-General should be able to sign a certificate which cannot be tested as to its validity one way or the other. 
It is not that the courts themselves have not pronounced on this matter. In the judgment in Sankey v. Whitlam a number of comments were made about ministerial certificates and free information.  Mr Justice  Mason stated: 
Perhaps affidavits in this form-- 
That is, a form essentially similar to that proposed in the New South Wales Bill-  were acceptable in the days when it was thought that the court should uphold an objection once made by the Crown through its appropriate representative. But they are plainly unacceptable now that the court is to resolve the issue for itself, after an inspection of the documents when that is thought to be appropriate. 
Other judges spoke similarly on that matter. The Acting Chief Justice,  Mr Justice  Gibbs, said: lt is in all cases the duty of the court, and not the privilege of the executive government, to decide whether a document will bc produced or may be withheld. The court must decide which aspect of the public interest predominates, or in other words whether the public interest which requires that the document should not bc produced outweighs the public interest that a court of justice in performing its functions should not bc denied access to relevant evidence. 
The judiciary in New South Wales has remarked on the matter. In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 1 May 1979, the following report on the comments  Mr Justice  Samuels, an appeal judge of the New South Wales Supreme Court, appeared: 
The reasons given by the State Attorney-General.  Mr Walker,  for introducing controversial legislation on evidence is not valid, a prominent judge said yesterday. 
The article goes on. to quote  Mr Justice  Samuels as saying about  Mr Walker:  he had, it would seem, been misled by incorrect advice from his departmental advisers. 

 Mr Justice Samuels was reported to have said that in relation to the effect of the Sankey decision. He was reported to have said further: 
The rule was that no claim for Crown privilege is absolute . . . 
People with an interest in freedom of information- a large number of honourable senators have worked very hard on the proposed Freedom of Information Bill of this Government, which in many ways is deficient and needs to strengthen the right of the public to examine documents- will also be surprised at that attitude being adopted in New South Wales.  Mr Michael  Evans, Lecturer in Law at the New South Wales Institute of Technology, writing in the  Australian  of 24 May 1979, stated: 
The courts have been making decisions on what constitutes the 'public interest' for centuries. In that time their lack of bias in making such decisions has never been seriously questioned. On the other hand decisions by politicians on what constitutes the 'public interest' have always been regarded with some suspicion. 
Acquiescence on an issue of this nature could see someone like  Mr Walker  in five years' time as Minister for Truth. 
Professor Harry Whitmore, of the University of New South Wales, writing in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 78 April 1979, stated: 
It is a fact that, in public law- that part of our law which protects ordinary citizens against the misdeeds of politicians and public servants- NSW lags sadly behind the law established in the Commonwealth and Victoria. This disgraceful legislation makes the situation much worse. 
Indeed, it is potentially more destructive of civil rights, justice and democracy than many other laws and activities that the Attorney-General is so ready to attack. 
Writing later in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 9 May 1979, he stated: 
And it certainly is not 'academic posturing' to state that the decision in Sankey v Whitlam does not have the extreme effect claimed by the Attorney-General. 
Finally, I instance that  Mr Brian  Donovan, the Secretary of the Criminal Law Committee of the Law Graduates Association, made exactly the same point in a letter headed 'Evidence Bill is intolerable' which appeared in the  National Times  for the week ended 19 May 1979. But what was the answer of the New South Wales AttorneyGeneral to the vital question of public interest? He said in his speech on the Bill: 
The answer is, by indicating how only the executive on most occasions will be in the best position to determine what is best in the public interest. 
In other words, the Executive Government of the day is the body or best institution, if not the only body or institution, able to establish what is the public interest of the day. As I said, that vital legislation denies any form of government communication to the courts, let alone to the Press, the public, interested groups or the judiciary. 
That vital information is now withheld. It is withheld by an Attorney-General on his say so alone. It is an unreviewable say so. It is withheld on the basis of a piece of legislation which was debated for 42 minutes. The New South Wales Opposition was given 14 minutes to state its position, before being gagged. 
The reason many of these things have not been discussed is that misleading statements have been made by the Government about what the legislation says. In order to avoid exposure of the fact that the legislation does not say what the Government claims it says, the debates have been truncated. The Premier said of the Public Service Bill that there would be real efficiency audits in the New South Wales Public Service. But if one looks at the Bill one will see that efficiency audits are to be permitted only with the express and direct permission of the Premier himself. In other words, the Auditor-General or anybody who has any financial responsibility has no power to initiate an efficiency audit of a department. It can be initiated only by the Premier and only with the consent of the Premier. 
In the electoral Bill the Premier said that there would be a full open public inquiry prior to a redistribution. The Bill does not provide any public inquiry as part of the redistribution process. One asks a number of questions about what it is that the Government of New South Wales is seeking to withhold from the public. When challenged in the Parliament by  Mr Dowd  about a matter concerning allegations made in a report by the Crime Intelligence Unit of the New South Wales Police Department the Premier of New South Wales said: 'I don't know anything of such a report, I don't think such a report exists, but if it did exist I would make it public'. What happened?  Mr Dowd  produced a copy of the Crime Intelligence Unit report. Responsibly he did not make it public, he did not give it to the Press, he did not even table it in the Parliament of New South Wales. He put it personally and publicly into the hands of the Premier. Despite the Premier's assurance that if such a document existed he would make it public, it is still not public. The Premier will not make it public. 
It behoves citizens of New South Wales to ask why a major report of the Crime Intelligence Unit dealing with issues such as the allegations that a group of well known Sydney criminals have said that once casino licences were available they would be able to buy politicians who would ensure that they- that is, the criminals concerned- got the casino licences. Thai document has not been made public. The document is a government communication and as such under the Evidence Bill it cannot be produced in court and cannot be produced in public without the certificate of the Attorney-General. The purpose of introducing the Evidence (Amendment) Bill is quite clear. Proceedings are under way in New South Wales in which it was quite clearly indicated by  Mr Edward  St John Q.C. that documents in possession of the Crown would be called for in order to secure a fair trial for his clients. The Bill prohibits him from calling for those documents in the possession of the Crown. It prevents the court from even examining those documents in camera to see whether they are relevant to the case that is being tried before it. It will protect certain prominent individuals in New South Wales who are close associates of the persons to whom I have already alluded, in terms of the Government of New South Wales, from being exposed in court. This has been said clearly by one of Sydney's leading Queen's Counsel in his statements in the court. We know that the Premier has close personal contact with a number of these people involved. He, they, the AttorneyGeneral and the documents passing perhaps between them- certainly between them as Ministers- are now entirely excluded from the scrutiny of the courts of New South Wales. 
I repeat the figures in respect of the important legislation- 3 hours 53 minutes for the Summary Offences Bill, with no real opportunity for the Opposition to speak; 3 hours 43 minutes for the Crimes Amendment Bill which attempted to weaken trial by jury; 3 hours 14 minutes for the Public Service Bill with no copies of the Bill provided to members of parliament for discussion prior to its introduction. As I said, this Bill seeks to put the control of the Public Service in the hands of the political Ministers. There was one day's debate for the Redistribution Bill; and 42 minutes debate for the Evidence (Amendment) Bill. I say to the Senate those are serious matters. The Executive has jackbooted legislation through the Parliament of New South Wales without adequate public debate, without adequate parliamentary debate and without any attempt to provide the Opposition with the time to debate significant matters of public interest. The way in which  Mr Walker  as the Leader of the House in New South Wales has ruthlessly applied the gag to debate is a scandal. The Wran Labor Government is engaged in a systematic pack rape of parliamentary democracy in New South Wales and is not to be allowed in the public domain to get away with it. 
I have never at any stage made any apology for any other government in Australia whose behaviour in the parliamentary domain is such as to prevent adequate debate and scrutiny of legislation by parliament. I have never at any stage defended the activities of any government in Australia in which the termination of parliamentary debate is a regular practice. But as a senator for New South Wales I assert again that the attitude of the Premier and the attitude of the Attorney-General as his parliamentary hatchet man has been to pack rape parliamentary democracy. This is a matter that should be brought to the attention of all citizens in New South Wales and, indeed, Australia. 
The States Grants (Schools Assistance) Amendment Bill 1979 and the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Amendment Bill 1 979, are essentially of a machinery nature. They provide additional funds for the topping up of programs, most of which are already well under way. Perhaps the most interesting feature of the changing relationship between the Commonwealth and the States in the whole of the post-war period has been the changing role that the Commonwealth has assumed in the provision of funds for education. There has been a great change in provision of education services and the degree of control in the education sector by the Commonwealth. Public expenditure on education, which in 1956-57 was about 2.1 per cent of the gross domestic product, had risen to 5.8 per cent by the 1976-77 period. But perhaps more significantly, the Commonwealth proportion of this expenditure had grown from 2.6 per cent to 42. 1 per cent. I think that the changing nature of Commonwealth-State relationships reflected in the education sector is one of the factors that we have to bear in mind in discussions of the Commonwealth's role of providing the money, as it does in the schools sector, without having much of the constitutional power to see that the money is spent according to its own priorities that it may consider important. 
The changing nature of this relationship is reflected even in the table which  Senator Button  has had incorporated in  Hansard.  He referred to figures for the 1972-73 period, the 1973-74 period and the 1975-76 period. He indicated considerable increases in Commonwealth expenditure- increases in the order of 92 per cent and 90 per cent in a couple of those years. In fact those figures reflect not simply the increase in Commonwealth expenditure but equally the increase in Commonwealth responsibility for taking over from the States- particularly after 3 1 December 1973- a number of functions and responsibilities which previously had been regarded as almost exclusively within the purview of the State governments. I do not think that  Senator Button  can really detract from the progress which this Commonwealth Government has made towards the realisation of targets set by the Karmel Committee report. In the report from the Schools Commission it will be seen that in many instances the targets established by the Karmel Committee, and which the Government enthusiastically adopted, have been metmany of them substantially ahead of the time frame in which it was expected they might be achieved. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table drawn from the Schools Commission report which shows per student expenditure in government and non-government schools in the States in 1976-77 as a percentage of the Karmel targets. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="081232197906042_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. These figures show that in the non-government schools the rate of progress has been somewhat uneven. It has been 66 per cent as far as level 6 schools are concerned, rising to 124 per cent as far as the level 1 schools are concerned. It can be seen that there is a far more even progression in the Government system; in the primary schools from a figure of 99 per cent in New South Wales to a figure of 1 16 per cent in Tasmania, and in the secondary schools from a figure of 93 per cent in Queensland to a figure of 109 per cent in South 
Australia. Over the last two Budgets we have seen expenditure on education vary slightly. In 1975-76 it was in the order of 8.4 per cent of the outlays of the Commonwealth Budget, a figure of $ 1,846m. In 1978-79 the Budget papers give an estimate of 8.7 per cent as a proportion of outlays, some $2,498m. It can be seen that education, as an item, ranks only behind social service and welfare payments to the States and health as the most important single component of a Commonwealth Budget. 
This topping-up legislation with which we are dealing today will in some ways be the last of its kind, because it will be the last of this sort of expenditure incurred in what one might regard as a pre- Williams situation. Education expenditure from this point onwards will undoubtedly be substantially influenced by the recommendations of the Williams Committee. It is proposed that those recommendations, which have given rise to a certain amount of debate throughout the community, will take place in a number of different fields and in a number of fields which I think will change the emphasis of Commonwealth involvement in education expenditure. I suppose this is neither the time nor the place to go in detail into the recommendations that Professor Williams's report puts before the Government, but I think it is important to note that we are operating in a slightly different educational atmosphere since the tabling of the Williams report and that Government decisions and Government priorities will be very largely measured against the recommendations of that particular report. 
I want to turn to the sort of proposals that we see embodied in the Bill dealing with tertiary education. This Government has particularly committed itself to a substantial expenditure in expanding the technical and further education sector of tertiary education. I believe there has been a great deal of confusion about the role of different sectors in education. There is a great deal of confusion about the proper role that the colleges of advanced education play. There is a great deal of confusion about the proper position of the TAFE sector within the overall education system. Harking back to Williams we know that technical and further education receives particularly favourable treatment from Williams in terms of his recommendations. We know that in terms of the recommendations that this Government has adopted and has acted upon, once again technical and further education appears to be doing considerably better than other sectors. But even so there is some confusion and uncertainty as to exactly what purpose technical and further education will serve, how it should best be worked into the overall post-secondary education system, and how even the priorities within the TAFE sector should be adjusted. 
It has been common to hear in the debate in this country, for instance, about the enormous shortage of skilled tradesmen. One of the points that Williams makes is that, despite this, there is a large number of unemployed skilled tradesmen. Although I think the Williams report does not analyse in the sort of detail that the Government would need to analyse particularly what trades are referred to, particularly which locations are referred to, and particularly what is wrong with that specific sector of the tradesman's activities, it does, I think, cause us to pause and examine where technical and further education should be headed, and how it should relate to other sectors of post-secondary education. 
This Bill, in providing additional assistance for TAFE and TAFE institutions, is a continuing recognition of a policy that the Government embarked upon some time ago in improving the TAFE sector in relation to the universities and to the colleges of advanced education. The extent to which that continues and the exact direction in which it continues must be a matter to be adjusted in the light of recommendations and new data and new information made available to the Government. The expenditure provided, as one can see from the second reading speech, also includes the expenditure on the Graduate School of Management at the University of New South Wales. Again, this is a particularly novel and exciting undertaking. It is an area in which honourable senators and honourable members in the other place have from time to time had some critical things to say about the quality and nature of management in Australia. It is to be hoped that in exactly the same way as governments were motivated to establish and support the Clyde Cameron College, in the belief that people operating in the trade union sector ought to have access to a greater degree of expertise, to greater assistance and to greater resources in order to allow them to fulfil their proper role within the educational and industrial sector, so I am sure that Australian management will benefit from taking a more intelligent and more scientific approach to the role it has to play in the mixed economy. 
This Bill moves us one step further in the direction of the establishment and maintenance of triennial funding for tertiary institutions. I think this will be one of the more settling and one of the more important aspects of the way in which tertiary education will now be confronted with the necessity to put its own house in order as far as expenditure is concerned; to work on a slightly longer term, and a slightly more integrated program of future expenditure than has been the case in the past, and the way in which institutions reacted to the decision to provide them only with a system of annual funding. 
This Bill, and I can only speculate on this, may be the last Bill in which the name of Murdoch University appears as a separate establishment. This is indicated in the current schedules regarding tertiary education. As honourable senators will know, the Williams Committee makes a very significant recommendation about the future of Murdoch University. As I understand it, the Western Australian Government has established a committee to look into the future of Murdoch University, although it has made it abundantly clear that it believes that Murdoch must exist as a separate and complete entity. As I understand it,  Dr Birt,  of the University of Wollongong, is to act as  chairman  of that committee. Undoubtedly its findings, placed against the findings of the Williams Committee, and placed against what I suppose will inevitably be the political pressures and priorities of the day, mean that this is another issue to which, when future Bills for the funding of universities come around, the Government will have had to have paid a considerable amount of attention in relation to the response that it makes to the question of Murdoch University. 
As this is the first opportunity for debate on educational matters since the tabling of the Williams report it might be appropriate to say something about the question of university fees, if only to indicate that the comments that have been made, particularly the comments that have been made in the newsletter of the Australian Union of Students and elsewhere that the Williams report is a report which urges the reestablishment of tertiary education fees, are not a correct charge. It is not a correct reading of the recommendations that the Williams report makes. I think it is useful to put on the record, when one is talking about tertiary education, that whatever the decisions that may be made in the future, the Williams report is not a document urging upon the Government the reestablishment of these fees. 
I turn now to the question of what is a complete initiative in the Bill; that is, the provision of government funding for non-government business colleges. This is to be found in Part IV A of the proposed new legislation. It is true that nongovernment business colleges have received some support and assistance in the past. On 13 October 1978 the Tertiary Education Committee reported on this particular matter to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  The recommendations of that Committee, found at pages 32 and 33 of the Committee's report, are the recommendations which, by and large, have been followed, I think very commendably, by the Government. As I said previously, nongovernment business colleges have received, or have had indications that they will receive, financial support from the Federal Government. I know that  Senator Colston  has taken an interest in this matter. He placed on notice the following question directed to the Minister for Education: 
What non-Government Business Colleges in each State and Territory are receiving or will receive grants in 1979. 
What are the approved courses for which grants may be paid in each of these colleges. 
On 2 May  Senator Carrick  provided an answer containing information as to the number of colleges which will be looking for the grant of money under the recommendations which are to be found in the report. The answer showed that in New South Wales there were some twentythree colleges providing 43 courses, in Victoria eighteen colleges providing 37 courses, in Queensland six colleges providing 10 courses, in South Australia six colleges providing 1 1 courses, in Western Australia five colleges providing 10 courses, in the Australian Capital Territory one college providing two courses and in Tasmania one college providing two courses. 
I do not believe that one needs to go through the recommendations in detail. They relate to the length of time for which courses should attract assistance and state that the colleges should move to become non-profit making colleges, that the rate for 1979 should be $55 per student per month, that the total amount of assistance paid to an individual college in a given year should not be greater than the actual expenditure incurred in that year in the provision of the courses supported, that the course approvals should be made by a special committee to be established and that students should be eligible to apply for living allowances under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme as well as any support that the college might be receiving as far as the direct education of those students is concerned. 
I think that the movement of the Government into the support of the non-government business colleges is a very worthwhile and commendable one. Harking back to Professor Williams, one of the matters of which one becomes increasingly aware- it is a matter which I would like to take up later- is the limitation on the special training and on the more than ordinary secondary training that is available for girls in the community. I think that Williams is right in drawing to our attention the fact that one of the most insidious forms of sexual discrimination in Australia is that which is practised systematically in the secondary school system against female students. He referred to the deliberate way in which it appears that girls are not encouraged to pursue mathematical and scientific studies but instead are shunted off into courses which are regarded as being more appropriate for girls to study- that is, 
I suppose, courses regarded in the perception of the 1 930s as being appropriate for girls to study. That again is something which requires a greater deal of study and attention. But the extent to which the non-government business colleges are still catering, almost exclusively, for female enrollees I think helps, at least in one respect, to break down some of the barriers of financial disadvantage for training and post-secondary courses available for girls. 
-They are not. Undoubtedly many young men would benefit from the secretarial type of courses which are offered. The point I make is simply that the majority of the people enrolled at those colleges at the moment and the majority of the people who as a result will be attracting government support to the non-government business colleges are female. I turn now to a criticism of this legislation, as far as it affects schools, which was made when this matter was debated in the House of Representatives. At page 2676 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 30 May 1979, the honourable member for Griffith,  Mr Humphreys,  is recorded as having criticised the Bill in the following fashion when speaking of assistance provided for schools: 
The wealthiest non-government schools will get an increase of $28 per head, whilst the poorest non-government schools will get only $6 per head. Level one primary schools will get $17 per head, whilst level six will get $5 per head. Levels three, four and five in the primary schools and levels four and five in secondary schools will get zero. 
I do not think that that statement should be allowed to pass without being challenged. The figures which  Mr Humphreys  cited referred only to the respective increases in rates of subsidy. They did not include the additional amounts gained by all non-government schools in the linking of percentage subsidies with the growth in government school per pupil costs. All levels receive an increase from the formula, which links the grant to government school costs, including schools at levels three to five. In fact, the total increases in per capita grants in 1979 are $29 and $37 for level one primary and secondary schools, compared with $28 and $2 1 for level six schools. Those amounts are expressed in current price levels, consistent with per capita grants which are shown in Schedule 6 at page seven of the Bill. I think it is important, therefore, to indicate that simply to read the figures the way in which they were read in the House of Representatives will not enable one to arrive at a correct and accurate perception of exactly what the Bill proposes. 
At page 123 of Volume I of the Williams report, in a review of chapter 4 on schools, I think that one can find one of the most devastating indictments of the Australian school system that has yet been given. Although Williams's brief was initially to inquire into education and training, with particular reference to the postsecondary sector, I think it important that he intruded very substantially into the schools sector to make the following analysis and criticism at paragraph R4.2: 
The schools have been given at least part of the blame for the high rate of unemployment among teenagers. Many employers, in the public sector as well as in private industry, complain that a substantial proportion of school leavers who seek jobs lack an adequate command of the basic skills of reading, writing and calculating and have unrealistic job expectations. In effect the employers blame the schools because such school leavers are insufficiently skilled and motivated to be worth employing at current wage rates. 
That is only one of many criticisms of the school system. It is one criticism which I think will be adequately taken up and analysed under the new reference which has been given to the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts. That Committee is to look particularly at the role of the school in preparing the student for employment or for post-secondary education. Although  Senator Button  may have made some somewhat disparaging remarks about the role of committees of inquiry and about the endless proliferation of such committees, I think that the reference by the Senate of that matter to one of its outstandingly successful committees- one which will be able to approach the matter on a bipartisan and expert basis- gives some cause for one to expect that progress will be made in that regard. 
However, at the other end of the scale, an equally great sector is uncatered for in the Australian school system. I refer to the gifted child. In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 13 March 1979, a former very distinguished and undoubtedly very highly regarded Minister for Education,  Mr Kim  Beazley, wrote an article entitled Needs of the gifted student'. In that article  Mr Beazley  pointed out quite succinctly the way in which students who are in fact high achievers are considerably penalised by the existing system of schools, particularly State schools. This is not a phenomenon peculiar to Australia. An article in  Time  magazine of 23 April 1979, under the heading 'Was the Kid Too Smart to Learn?' dealt with precisely the same matter being taken to litigation in the United States of America, where the parents of gifted children are taking the school boards to court for denying their gifted children the opportunity to excel within the ordinary State school system. 
-No. What I am saying in this debate on education, which deals with the provision of money to schools, is that I made the point earlier that the Commonwealth has a very limited constitutional capacity to direct the money it provides to the States for schools assistance into the areas which appear to be the areas of considerably greatest need. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was making a point, in response to a comment by  Senator Robertson,  to the effect that the Federal Government found itself in the difficult position of being required to provide very large amounts of money for secondary school education without having very much control over the way in which that money is then distributed and spent within the secondary school sector. As an illustration I want to take up a point about the continuing debate in Australia about what is called bicultural or multicultural education. I note with some degree of regret that the legislation we are considering this evening contains no provision for any expanded finance to be made available to combat the problems which are increasingly apparent within the Australian education system as far as our attitude to bicultural and multicultural education is concerned. 
In an article entitled 'Australians: Imprisoned within the four walls of our monolingualism' which appeared in the  Canberra Times  of 2 1 May, Professor Ray Cattell, Professor of Linguistics at the University of Newcastle, made a particularly important statement about the lack of effective multicultural education in Australian secondary schools. I want to take a moment to indicate some of the work that has been done as far as this subject is concerned. I draw the Senate 's attention to this as an area of considerable deprivation within the secondary school system and an area in which I believe the Federal Government may well have to exercise a little more of its financial muscle to persuade the States to meet their quite apparent responsibilities. At a conference in 1976 called 'Australia 2000: The Ethnic Impact' a paper entitled 'Bilingual-bicultural Education in a Multicultural Society' was delivered by Pino Geracitano. He made the point that 39 per cent of the child population of Australia was made up of immigrants. He said: 
Yet despite this, the multiculturalism of society is muted through the dominance in all facets of life by Australians of Anglo-Saxon background, and consequently on the surface Australia still looks very much an Anglo-Saxon country. 
He went on to indicate the complete lack of awareness within the Australian school system of the problems faced by the immigrant child and in one particular passage drew attention to the fact that children in schools were being forcibly, one might say, educated in the English language. He made the observation that a situation developed where: 
It is not unusual for such a family to sit at the dinner table with very little conversation between children and parents. 
He went on to say: 
The school is faced with a dilemma; on the one hand it has the function of socialising the young - 
That is, I take it, political socialisation-  but on the other hand learning is nourished best in the learner's own cultural ethos, which includes the learner's native language. In the past the school has resolved this in favour of socialising towards an homogeneous society. Hence, it has emphasised assimilation at the expense of education. 
That is an area which has been taken up by a number of writers in recent years. In an article in the  Journal of Research and Development in Education  of November 1977, Leon Frazier indicated that part of the problem was the lack of perception among trainee teachers of the need to possess greater awareness of these problems. Frazier wrote: 
The major and most important single unit in determining the reality of education that is multicultural is the teacher. The teacher generally holds the reins of opportunity in the educational situation and is a key factor in the formation of critical attitudes in students. 
Again the matters which presumably have been referred to Professor Auchmuty as part of his inquiry will impinge very closely upon this. L. J. Dwyer, in an article entitled 'Education for a Multicultural Society- What and How?', went on to make this significant point: 
The provision of education for a multicultural society is both a political and a knowledge problem. 
In discussing it as a political problem Dwyer was at pains to emphasise that the decisions as far as multicultural education is concerned have to be taken at the very highest level. I would particularly commend to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and to the Government the pioneering work done in Australia by  Dr J.  J. Smolicz of the University of Adelaide, who will be known to many honourable senators. I think that his published works, particularly his work dealing with Eastern European cultural and ethnic communities, indicate a great deal of research to which governments, Federal and State, have failed to respond in any constructive fashion. I hope that the provision of additional money for the school system will result in the provision of additional information and the payment of additional attention to the problems of what one can call bicultural or multicultural education. To illustrate this point I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which sets out the number of students enrolled in New South Wales for the Higher Schools Certificate language course. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="081232197906042_46_12.jpg"></graphic>

There were 3 1 ,080 HSC candidates in 1 972, and 34,303 in 1 978, an increase of 10.37 per cent. 
Students sat for 7,474 language papers in 1972 (an unknown number sat for more than one), compared with 5,038 in 1978, a drop of 32.59 per cent. 
The numbers sitting the three most popular languages in 1972 and 1978, expressed as percentages of the English candidature, were: French, 13.26 to 6.42 percent; German, 3.85 to 3.0 percent; Indonesian, 3.15 to 1.79 percent. 
-The table shows, for instance, that the number taking the traditional language of French declined from 4,122 in 1972 to 2,202 in 1978. The table shows an enormous decline in a large number of modern European languages in particular. For instance, there has been a decline of 46.6 per cent in French and 13.9 per cent in German. There has been a decline of 37.3 per cent in the number of students undertaking the study of the Indonesian language, which has been in vogue in recent years. Strangely enough, that has been at a period when one would have thought that the teaching of a language like Indonesian was all the more important within the Australian school system. Of course, this decline has occurred partly because the school systems have operated in such a way that there has been almost no provision for the teaching of foreign languages.  Mrs Frenkel  of the Classical Language Teachers Association drew attention to that when writing in the  Education Herald  of 22 May of this year. She said: 
One cannot expect immature  tennagers  in large numbers to choose foreign languages in preference to subjects which have greater immediate appeal. The only solution is to make the study of at least one language part of the core curriculum. After all if mathematics was optional how popular would it be? 
I believe that we are imprisoning Australian generations of the future in an extremely blinkered and narrow world by not insisting not only that the English language should be properly taught in schools but also people should be encouraged- indeed, directed- to master more than one language or at least to have a passing familiarity with more than one language. This linguistic isolation of the Australian continent is something which, if allowed to continue, will have very detrimental effects in the years to come. Indeed, a paper tabled today- that is, the paper entitled 'Provision for child migrant education '-draws attention to the recommendations made in the Galbally report involving the teaching of English as a second language requiring the provision of an extra $ 10m for funding and the allocation of $5m over the course of three years for multicultural education in schools. 
The school as we know it is becoming increasingly irrelevant in today's society. In the Len Falk annual lecture delivered in March of this year  His Excellency  the Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, was at pains to point out that schools are no longer fulfilling their traditional and expected role. Amongst other things, he said:  lt is no good enunciating aims for the schools which expect them to do things that adults do not do. 
Yet it has been the traditional role of the school to provide information, cultural and social awareness- which is very often absent in the home life of many students- and particularly some sort of integration into the Australian cultural ethos for those 39 per cent of children for whom English is not the native tongue. In Gilmour and Lansbury's book entitled  Ticket to Nowhere  one of the points they make is the crying need for education systems to be what they described as 'sufficiently flexible to enable individuals to make considerable changes in their work situations at any stage during their working life '. They state: 
No longer should an individual with minimal education be condemned to the secondary labour market forever, while the more fortunate have life-long membership of the primary labour market. Education must broaden people's life chances rather than restrict them to particular segments of the labour market. This means that education must be for life and not merely for work. 
At the moment the school no longer is providing that particular milieu. Above all, it is not providing it for the group so clearly identified in the Williams report; that is to say, the early school leaver. We know from the Williams report that these sorts of figures have become apparent. An Australian Bureau of Statistics survey which he quotes, of those who left school between 1971 and 1976, shows that in May 1976 the unemployment rate was 24 per cent for those who left school at 14, 13 per cent for those who left school at 1 5 and 8 per cent for those who left school at 16. The book by Gilmour and Lansbury to which I referred previously summarises the situation in these terms: 
The main penalties for failure in the education system are low pay, poverty and unemployment. 
If one needed any additional information on this one would have to turn only to some of the published documents in the Poverty and Education Series of the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. In one of those studies entitled 'Factors affecting school leaving and work decisions for girls' the following appears: 
A disturbing number of students left because they found school boring and irrelevant to their perceived needs. An equally disturbing number of students reported that the family needed an extra breadwinner to supplement family income. The decision to leave school shows a strong and independent tendency for students to be responsible for their own futures. 
Whilst the idea of responsibility for one's own future is very much to be encouraged, the idea that one should be pushed out of the school system by financial and other constraints at the earliest possible time should not be encouraged. Another of the Henderson Commission series entitled 'Poverty, education and adolescents' reported in the following terms: 
This study has demonstrated the pervasive effects of failure and powerlessness on people's lives, dimensions that correlate highly with poverty, with experiences within the lowest strata of the social scale. 
The school system, I believe, should be doing considerably more than it is at the moment to adjust that situation. 
I turn to questions which are not addressed in the general debate about education. I believe that the Williams report fails to come to grips with some of the very important aspects of education in the future, including the ability to tell us something about how education will fit in with the new technology. For instance, in the Williams report there is no mention of cable television. There is no mention of what will happen to the education system when, because of television, cables, optical fibres and all the rest of it, one can be educated almost in isolation at home on the end of a television screen. The quality of education will be second to none but it will be conducted in the isolation of one's home, removed from one's peers and without any of those human contacts that are so important. 
I find it distressing that in a Bill about tertiary education one of the greatest experiments in tertiary education once again receives no mention. In the Williams report there is no significant and intelligent discussion of the concept of the Open University. Yet this year in Great Britain the Open University celebrated its tenth anniversary. Every week 35 tons of written material is being sent from the University to studens through the postal system. It is the largest educational institution in the country. Yet it appears that in Australia, despite the fact that we had a Tertiary Education Commission paper some years ago on the Open University, there is virtually nothing to be said about it for the future. In an article by Christopher Mcintosh in the  London Illustrated News  entitled 'Ten years of the Open University' we read the extent to which the Open University really opens opportunities for disadvantaged people. It goes on to describe the way in which the concept has developed since its inception. It says of its origins: 
First, there were then few courses open to working adults who wished to take degrees, and those that existed tended to provide for people who already had educational qualifications; second, there had been a tremendous growth in television and radio programmes of a broadly educational kind; third, there was strong political support in certain quarters for measures to increase egalitarianism and combat elitism in education. 
I believe that that is one of the most important things that an open university can do. The journal  New Society  indicates in its 15 March edition the concept and development of the Open University as it is in Paris at the moment. The University of Paris VIII, otherwise known as Vicennes, is again a bold experiment which appears at the moment to have no place in the Australian education system. Finally, one could cite as an example the La Guardia project which has taken place in the United States and to which my colleague in the other place,  Mr Peter  Fisher, referred in his speech on the Bills. At that college there is not only a core of enrolled students but also people who come and go off the streets to receive additional part-time education. 
The final thing that needs to be said in this respect is that there is some need for a return to what tended to be regarded as basic standards in education. I think that most people who follow the education debate would be familiar with the views of Professor Lauchlan Chipman on why schools appear to be increasingly irrelevant, why parents increasingly are shirking their educational responsibilities and why there is no form of increasing accountability in public education. I believe that unless these issues are confronted the education system in Australia will simply grind along with the deficiencies that Williams and others have exposed year after year. I have pleasure in supporting these Bills at this stage because they are quite simply topping up measures. They do not point us in new directions. I hope that they will be the last Bills which do not take account of the sort of material which Williams has put before us and of the sorts of challenges which the education system will need to face up to in the 1980s and beyond. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I want to briefly address myself to-  (Quorum formed).  I was saying that I intend to make some remarks about a number of areas within this statement in which there have been positive increases in education funding. Secondly, I wish to draw attention to the large number of what must be very disappointed would-be Jeremiahs around the place who, in the course of the last week, were making hay with predictions of how many people were to be sacked, how many institutions were to have fees reimposed and how $120m was to be cut here, there and everywhere. Thirdly, I will draw attention to the trends in some of the education sectors that were mentioned this evening in the statement of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick). 
Despite the fact that  Senator Button  attempted to describe the whole package as a backward step, he at least conceded, as I am sure all honourable senators would, that the increases provided in the technical and further education sector are increases which are in line with educational policy as it has been identified by this Government and by the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training. The five per cent increase in recurrent education grants for TAFE, from $52m to $54.6m, and the 14.9 per cent increase in the capital funding for TAFE, from $69.9m to $80.3m, are welcome increases in an increasingly important sector of education. Secondly, I am sure that everybody will be prepared to concede that the additional assistance provided to Level 6 non-government schools at both primary and secondary levels is to be welcomed. The additional $5 for Level 6 primary and the additional $9 for Level 6 secondary are part of an increasing policy on the part of this Government to focus limited resources towards the areas clearly identified as being in greatest need. Given what I had to say last night about the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Amendment Bill and the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Amendment Bill, I think equally that the increase of $2. 108m for migrant education and the increase of $854,000 for multi-cultural education, although going only a small way towards dealing with the problem, are important areas of increased expenditure. 
However, there was one area about which I particularly wanted to take issue with the comment made by  Senator Button.  I refer to the cuts in capital funding for government schools. It is true that in the vicinity of $40m is to be cut from Federal Government funding of the capital costs of government schools. But, two things have to be borne in mind. Firstly, government schools receive approximately one-third of their capital assistance from the Federal Government and approximately two-thirds from State Government. To that extent, the cuts fall more heavily on nongovernment schools' capital funding because they rely entirely upon Federal Government assistance. That $40m is an interesting figure. It represents approximately the same amount of money that State Governments have saved or have declined to spend in the last couple of years by withdrawing State Government scholarships for students at secondary schools and by transferring their teacher trainees from their own financial resources of support onto the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowances. The sum of $40m is approximately the same amount that the State Governments over recent years have put back into their State Treasuries by transferring these student scholarships, and teacher scholarships, in particular, to Federal Government programs. Therefore, the ability of State Governments to make up a considerable amount of this leeway ought to be recognised. 
I want to take up a couple of points made prior to this evening's announcement which will indicate just how much rumour-mongering and fearmongering there has been over this matter. An article in today's Sydney  Daily Telegraph  refers to  Mr Bedford,  the New South Wales Education Minister, and it states: 
The State Government may be forced to reintroduce fees for technical college students . . . 
The article goes on to say that the New South Wales Minister expects a package of about $ 120m worth of cuts and that he thinks that perhaps members of the teaching profession could no longer be employed because the recurrent grants provided to the State Governments from the Federal Government were going to be cut. It is quite clear that there will be no cuts in recurrent expenditure. As a result there can be no way in which any State authority can claim that it will be forced to lay off teaching staff. For instance, the same point was made by the Tasmanian Minister for Education,  Mr Holgate,  in the Hobart  Mercury  of Saturday, 2 June 1979, when he said: 
The State Government may be forced to in reallocate Schools Commission funding to save the existing jobs of teachers. 
He went on to make comments about 'massive cuts that were to be made'. Again, it has been demonstrated this evening that that was a lot of scare tactics and rumour-mongering. 
-Undoubtedly many State governments will be upset that the responsibilities which they so constantly claim are State responsibilities for education are being clearly identified as being just that. For instance, a VicePresident of the Australian Union of Students was reported in the Hobart  Mercury  of 4 June as having said that education would suffer an $80m cut and that all these matters would have an enormous impact upon students. Today's  Australian  says that today is the day when people will know whether tertiary fees are to be reimposed. It states: 
The Opposition, teacher groups and student associations all believe that the reintroduction of university fees is a strong possibility. 
The Opposition spokesman on education.  Senator John  Button, said yesterday university fees would prevent many enthusiastic and talented students from low-income families from taking courses. 

 Senator Gietzelt is making noises about fees. He is unaware that the Minister for Education said in his Press conference this evening that there will be no reimposition of tertiary fees. 
-I am saying that the Minister for Education has made it clear that there is to be no reimposition of tertiary fees. All the rumour-mongering that goes on about that will not amount to anything. In the  Australian Financial Review  of yesterday it was reported: 
But the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme is likely to suffer stringent cuts. A means test on TEAS has been widely predicted. 
The article went on to say that the innovations program is expected to be cut back, if not abolished. Once again that is absolute nonsense as far as this matter is concerned. Even on this evening's broadcast of  PM  there was continual peddling of the rumour that TEAS and university fees were in for the hatchet tonight. As I have said, in such areas as the TAFE and migrant and multicultural education areas there have been considerable and valuable increases. It is all very well for  Senator Gietzelt  and other Australian Labor Party senators to complain about this matter in terms of cutbacks, but where were they in 1976 when the last of the Whitlam Budgets cut $105m out of the education system? Where were they when the greatest single cutback in education of $ 105m was made by the Government that they trumpet around the country as the greatest thing ever to happen to the education system? Where were they in the period when assistance to government schools was cut back from $399.5m to $343.3m? Where were they when, in relation to expenditure on schools, the Labor Government was looking at an immediate and real reduction of $44m in that Budget? Where were they when $ 105m was being pruned out of the whole of the education sector? 
-Exactly. As  Senator Martin  said, they speak with a forked tongue on this matter. As far as the table that  Senator Button  had incorporated in  Hansard  yesterday is concerned, as I pointed out yesterday the figures purported to be put forward in that table deliberately seek to ignore the whole business of tertiary offsets that took place in the period in which  Senator Button  was trying to make out that there were enormous increases. When one looks at the constant price record over those years one sees that for 1976 there was a reduction in constant price terms of 7 per cent. That was due to the Labor Government's famous $105m hatchet job. For 1977 there was an increase of 3.2 per cent and for 1978 there was an increase of 0.6 per cent. For 1979 there was maintenance of these things in real terms. The Minister's statement contains a number of valuable forward steps as far as areas such as TAFE and migrant and multicultural education are concerned. The position of the maintenance of everybody's recurrent funding has been made clear. As far as the cutbacks in capital expenditure are concerned, I have discussed the position of the States and the way in which they have been salting away money by transferring their secondary school students and teacher trainees to Federal Government programs. As to Jeremiahs such as the New South Wales Minister for Education, the Tasmanian Minister for Education, the Opposition spokesman on education, the Australian Union of Students and just about anybody else who could get himself into the newspapers or onto the radio, they have all been proven to be manifestly false in their statements. It is about time it was recognised that this sector has been treated extraordinarily well by this Government. It has been treated particularly well considering the sort of record that the Labor Party had in government, particularly its hatchet job towards education. I think it needs to be understood that the statement presented this evening is a balanced and constructive statement in a large number of areas. I have mentioned the matter of fees. I have also mentioned that State governments and Opposition spokesmen have been living off alleged cutbacks for the last week but will be unable to live off them for very much longer. When this statement is analysed it will be seen clearly that the progress which this Government has continued to make in the education field will be continued throughout the course of this year and indeed for the rest of the triennium and that the funding which has been provided to tertiary institutions and the programs which have been developed, supported and brought to fruition by this Government have made a valuable contribution to the education sector in this country. 
I shall also be brief as was  Senator Robertson.  The Kakadu National Park, which certainly is one of the most extraordinary national parks anywhere in the world, was proclaimed on 5 April 1 979. The park comprises some 6,000 square kilometres and contains within it the township site of Jabiru as recommended in the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry report. Although the site of Jabiru is not quite that proposed on page 223 of the second volume of the Fox report, nevertheless Jabiru is being developed largely in line with the recommendations. The recommendation which I think initially is important is drawn from page 2 19 of the second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. The recommendation in part reads as follows: 
Our view is that the size of the town, in terms of population, should at the outset bc strictly limited. The maximum ultimate population should Tor the present be set at 3,500, the number considered essential to serve the Ranger and Jabiluka mines. 
That therefore gives us two areas with which we are somewhat concerned. Kakadu National Park is Aboriginal land leased to the Director of National Parks and Wildlife and Jabiru township of some 69 square kilometres is Crown land vested in the Director. Work in developing the Jabiru town site will take place not only within that 69 square kilometres but will also take place within the larger parameter of the Kakadu National Park itself. In fact proposed new section 8D (2) indicates that. In part it states:   . . the Director may grant written licences to the Authority authorizing it to do such things within the Park as are specified in the licences . . . 
So the concern is not only for the development of the township itself but also for the work that will take place within the park in order to facilitate the growth of the township. Jabiru is to be developed as what the second reading speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  describes as 'a closed town with a limited population'. This in turn is to be eventually in accord with a plan of management which is to be brought down for the area, although it is to be noted from the legislation that the licences granted at this stage will have the effect of overriding a subsequent plan of management if in any way the two are in some contradiction. 
The development of the township was placed in the hands of the Jabiru Town Development Authority under Northern Territory legislation. As I understand it, within some 13 days of the proclamation of the Kakadu National Park on 18 April 1979 the  Chairman  ofthe Authority,  Mr E.  J. Simpson, sought approval from the Director for major programs of works to start as of about 5 May. However, it was found on advice from the Attorney-General's Department that the Director was not in a position to grant the licences at this stage. It is that deficiency that has brought us to the enactment of the present legislation in order to provide the Director with that necessary authority. 
The important things to note, I think, are as follows: Firstly, the legislation, as I said, is designed to allow the Director to grant licences for work which is necessary for the development of the Jabiru township. Secondly, the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act ceases to have any significant effect when the plan of management comes into force, because the plan will then be the guiding document for future development although, as I said, licences issued prior to the presentation of the plan of management will remain in force and to the extent necessary override the terms of the plan of management. 
The legislation before us imposes upon the Director in proposed new section 8D (3) a requirement that he shall undertake wide consultation before the granting of licences. It prohibits him from granting a licence unless he has had contact with the Town Development Authority and the Authority has advised him that other bodies established under the law of the Northern Territory, including the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission, which has responsibility for parks and wildlife in the Territory, are satisfied that the work is appropriate and that they have agreed to the issue of the licence. In short, it means that the Authority has to ascertain from the Territory Wildlife Commission and from other relevant Territory authorities that they are in favour of the issue of the licence and the Authority has to inform the Director that it has no objection to the issue of the licence. Further, it is made incumbent upon the Director to have consultation with the Aboriginal people concerned.  ( Quorum formed). 
The proposed new section provides:   . . where, under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976, an Aboriginal Land Council has, or Aboriginal Land Councils have, been established Tor any area or areas wholly or partly within the Park- the Director has consulted with, and had regard to the views of, the  Chairman  of that Council or of each of those Councils, as the case may be. in relation to the issue of the licence. 
It also ought to be stressed, I think, that under the principal Act, the National Parks and Wildlife and Conservation Act 1975, the Director remains at all times under the control of the Minister. Section 16 (2) of that Act provides: 
Except as otherwise provided by this Act, the Director shall perform his functions and exercise his powers in accordance with any directions given by the Minister. 
So the important thing to note is that although the Director has substantial power as far as the issue of licences is concerned, his decisions may be overriden by the Minister and he has a responsibility to act on the determination that a Minister may make from time to time. 
-A directive. Equally, the Director is further obligated under the legislation before us, as set out in proposed new section 8d (4), as follows: 
In granting a licence under sub-section (2), the Director shall impose such conditions as he thinks fit providing for such of the objects set out in sub-section II (8) as arc applicable. 
If one looks at section 1 1 (8) of the principal Act one sees that it imposes on the Director the responsibility in the preparation of the plan of management to have regard to certain important matters, lt states: 
in the case of a park- the encouragement and regulation of the appropriate use. appreciation and enjoyment of the park by the public; 
in the case of a reserve- the regulation of the use of the reserve for the purpose for which it was declared: 
the preservation of the park or reserve in its natural condition and the protection of its special features, including objects and sites of biological, historical,  palacontological  archaeological, geological and geographical interest; 
the protection, conservation and management of wildlife within the park or reserve; and 
the protection of the park or reserve against damage. 
Responsibility for protection of the physical and spiritual features of the Park are again imposed upon the Director. 
I believe, having read a great deal of the material that has been produced, and a number of comments that have been made in the Press of the Northern Territory, that certain allegations have been made against Professor Ovington in his capacity as the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service. The majority of those criticisms have been ill founded and, personally directed, they are not sustainable. I think that during this debate an appreciation of the record of the Director ought to be placed in the publicrecord. He has been the subject of a great deal of adverse and unfortunate criticism. When one examines, for instance, the report of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service for the period 1 July 1977 to 30 June 1978, in the section dealing with Kakadu National Park one reads that the declaration of the Park 'will be the culmination of more than 1 3 years of debate over land use in the region'.  (Quorum formed).  I repeat, if one looks at that report of the National Parks and Wildlife Service, one sees the enthusiasm and dedication that all officers of the Service, the Director and all of his subordinates, have put into the eventual declaration and management of the Kakadu National Park, which is potentially affected by this legislation but which I believe will be sufficiently safeguarded. 
In conclusion I would say, firstly, that this legislation provides sufficient guarantees for the protection of the Park, for consultation with Northern Territory authorities and for consultation with the Aboriginals. Further, it provides sufficient guarantees in the overriding power of the Minister, in terms of these matters, for those who are genuinely concerned with the conservation issues to feel quite secure that no damage will be done to such a valuable national asset as the Kakadu National Park. I say, secondly, that the procedures adopted for the development of the Jabiru township before the plan of management comes into effect are the most satisfactory that could be made in the circumstances. I say, thirdly, that I have a great deal of faith in the ability of the Director, who will have considerable authority under this legislation, to carry out all of his responsibilities in a completely proper fashion. 
Fourthly, I would like to indicate that, in terms of the issue of conservation in general, the Fraser Government has a particularly fine record. Decisions have been taken in relation to matters such as Fraser Island, the whaling inquiry, the proclamation of the Kakadu National Park and the declaration of intention as far as the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park is concerned. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has shown a- willingness to meet with a number of people who are particularly concerned about conservation issues. He is meeting tomorrow with representatives who are here from London and from Australia to talk to him about the harp seal problem. He was particularly instrumental many years ago in developing the policy which led to the prohibition of the export of Australian birds. All those matters indicate that this Government has taken very seriously indeed its responsiblities in the field of conservation. It is within that framework that this legislation, which was made necessary because of technical difficulties in the existing legislation exposed by the AttorneyGeneral 's Department, is to be commended. One can rest assured that not only the interests of the development of the Jabiru township but also the interests of the presevation of the park and of conservation in general will be adequately provided for. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Melzer)-  I call  Senator Mulvihill. 
I believe that the personal reflections being made consistently by  Senator Cavanagh  ought to be considered highly disorderly and treated by you as such. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I find that there is no point of order. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
There is no point of order. Offensive remarks may have been made by both sides of the House. I call  Senator Mulvihill. 
I want to use the opportunity of the first reading of Supply Bill (No. 1 ) 1 979-80 to put before the Senate in a brief form a matter that is of concern to a large number of people in New South Wales who are shareholders in the New South Wales State Superannuation Board. On 27 January 1 978  Mr Francis  Walker Stewart retired rather than face dismissal from the position of  chairman  of the State Superannuation Board of New South Wales. He retired on a superannuation pension that could be about $642 a fortnight. 
The New South Wales fund has assets of about $ 1,200m and some 1 17,000 members. On 7 November 1978 the Auditor-General of New South Wales,  Mr William  Henry, on page 203 of his 1977-78 report, disclosed that the State Superannuation Board expected to lose about $363,850 on an investment of $910,000 in Rushcutters Court Pty Ltd and a further $382,959 as the result of an investment of $ 1.05m in Arcos Products Pty Ltd. The two companies are linked by common ownership. Thus the State Superannuation Board has suffered losses of some $747,000 in lost principal and accrued interest. On 7 February 1979 the responsible State Minister,  Mr Ron  Mulock, told the State Parliament: 
I should inform the House that no actual loss of funds has been suffered by the State Superannuation Board as a result of  Mr Stewart's  failure to fulfill his fiduciary duties to the State Superannuation Board and its contributions. 
The facts accord with the statement made by the New South Wales Auditor-General. They do not accord with the statements of  Mr Mulock.  In 1960 the then Auditor-General of New South Wales investigated  Mr F.  W. Stewart's performance regarding the sale of certain blocks of land in Clontarf. As a result, that sale was rescinded and it was recommended that  Mr Stewart  be demoted. However, by 1 972  Mr Stewart  was  chairman  of the State Superannuation Board.  Mr Stewart  was the principal of Ardnalia Investments, a company which was registered on 30 November 1973. There is a group of companies known as the Arcos Group, controlled by a  Mr Eisner,  operating in New South Wales. The principal companies in that group are Rushcutters Court Pty Ltd, Green Valley Shopping Centre Pty Ltd and the Whitehall Hotel. Prior to 1968 the Eisner companies sought at least $ 1 m from the State Superannuation Board but were continually refused. 
In the period 1969 to 1973 the Eisnercontrolled Arcos group received loans from the Board totalling some $3. 5m, several of which, as a Board memorandum of November 1973 clearly shows, were made on  Mr Stewart's  decision against the advice of his professional advisers and when the companies were known to be in financial difficulty. These companies consistently defaulted on interest payments and yet received continuing further advances from the State Superannuation Board, which even permitted some Arcos companies to pay other debts before meeting their obligations to the State Superannuation Board. However, at the same time Ardnalia,  Mr Stewart's  own company, advanced some $43,000 to one of these self same companies, Rushcutters Court. 
By 1 May 1975 three Arcos companies owed $ 1 4 1 ,456 in interest arears. Yet on 7 May, on  Mr Stewart's  own advice, a further $40,000 was loaned to Rushcutters Court and on the following day, 8 May, Rushcutters Court repaid $3,500 to Ardnalia, the chairman's personal company. Further, Stewart, without the Board's knowledge, actively assisted the same mortgagor company, which conducted a hotel, to tender successfully for the provision of accommodation for a Board residential seminar and had gone so far as to draft its tender for it. Finally, Stewart made an apparently false statutory declaration in connection with an application for a loan from a building society. Facts pertinent to this matter were presented to the Under Secretary of the Premier's Department in a confidential letter dated 2 December 1977 from the New South Wales Auditor-General, a copy of which I have. It commences: 
I refer to your letter of 28 November 1977 requesting on behalf of the Premier, that I pursue investigations into the actions of the  President  of the State Superannuation Board . 
There are other details of transactions in this report, and I seek leave to table it for examination, which reveal the extent of these unsavoury transactions. I now say that when  Mr Mulock  made his statement that the State Superannuation Board had not lost any contributors' funds, he was in error, perhaps unaware of the AuditorGeneral's report, perhaps for other reasons. 1 assert that my contitutents have lost $747,000. I now call upon the New South Wales State Government to make a full and frank disclosure of all the facts relevant to this case and to respond to the call from the New South Wales Teachers Federation and others to give us the full story in regard to this matter. The State Government's continuing silence over the loss of $747,000 belonging to their employees and to my constituents can no longer be tolerated. I seek leave to table the document from which I previously quoted, being a report from the AuditorGeneral to the Under Secretary of the Premier's Department in New South Wales. 
Leave granted. 
-I thank the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Did the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development examiners in 1974 draw attention to what they called the lack of a clear national science and technology policy in Australia? Does the report from the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment which was tabled this week say, in part, that at present there is no clear national policy for science and technology in Australia? Is the Minister aware of the disastrously declining levels of real research and development in Australia in all sectors and in ail disciplines? Does he agree that the co-ordination, measurement and integration of research and development in Australia are in a deplorable shambles and are in need of a total and thorough review and overhaul? Will he convey to the Prime Minister the feeling that perhaps the Australian Science and Technology Council would be well charged with the responsibility to look at this matter in the national interest, on the ground that nobody else appears to be doing so? 
-Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate recall that in the last week of the last sessional period I asked him a question as to whether it would be possible during this sessional period to provide time for parliamentary debate on the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships and that he undertook to see what could be done during the course of this sessional period to permit debate on that important report? I now ask him whether he is prepared to give an undertaking that he will look into providing some opportunity to debate this report in the next sessional period. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Did the Prime Minister announce on 20 February the Australian Government's willingness to provide personnel from the Australian armed forces to serve in a United Nations task force in Namibia? Since that date have there been major developments in Namibia which might affect Australia's position? I instance the varying statements by the South West African People 's Organisation- SWAPO - about Australia 's participation; the opening of a South African based National Assembly in Namibia during May; South Africa's announced plans for Namibian independence; certain activities by the United Nations General Assembly in May, including the appointment of another ambassador to deal with the matter; the Lusaka decisions relating to Zimbabwe; and the replacement of the liberal Administrator of Namibia,  Mr Justice  Martin Steyn, by the  chairman  of the archreactionary Broederbond of South Africa, Professor Girret Viljoen. Do any of these developments affect Australia's commitment to send Service personnel to this area? Given the importance of such an overseas commitment, will the Minister bring this matter up for debate in the Senate and thus ensure that Parliament examines this issue before Australian lives are put at potential risk in southern Africa? 
If the amendment moved by the Opposition were restricted entirely to the cannabis situation I think it would take on an entirely different character. But the amendment moved by the Opposition relates to: 
. a quantity of a narcotic substance that is not less than the trafficable quantity applicable to the substance and is punishable under . . . section 23S of the Customs Act . . . 
Attached to the Customs Act is a schedule which states the traffickable quantities of various amounts. For instance, I draw the attention of the Committee to the traffickable quantity of opium, which is 20 grams. Very few people who are personal users, if one could use that phrase as far as opium is concerned, are likely to be in need of that amount of the substance. Presumably, that is why the figure of 20 grams has been arrived at. But I would have thought that there was a fairly strong presumption that a person who has in his possession 10 or 15 grams of opium was likely at some stage to have been in contact with a supplier who was able to provide not only him but other people with substantial amounts of opium. If one looks at the traffickable amount of heroin under this Schedule, it is two grams, which is the same as the traffickable amount of methadone or morphine. I read the Labor Party's amendment as meaning that there would be no ability on the part of a Customs officer to make an approach to a judge in order to start proceedings for the issue of a warrant or that there would be no narcotics offence in the terms that the Labor Party's amendment would have us believe if, for instance, somebody had an amount of approximately 1 5 grams of opium in his possession. I would have thought that that was the sort of amount that could well lead one through a series of connections to the original supplier of the opium, and one which would be well worth the Customs officers getting onto, if necessary by the use of electronic listening devices. It is because this proposed amendment does not deal exclusively with the subject of cannabis but deals with all the other substances that are on the Schedule that I find some difficulty with it. For instance, the figure for methadone appears fairly small at two grams. However, when looking today through the answers to questions on notice in the House of Representatives  Hansard  my attention was drawn to a question about methadone asked by  Dr Klugman  of the 
Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt). Dr Klugman  drew attention to the fact that the amount of methadone prescribed in the Australian Capital Territory during the four weeks ended 8 October 1977 was 24,500 milligrams whereas for the four weeks ended 7 October 1978 it had risen to 154,200 milligrams. Although there has been a very substantial reduction since that date, those figures indicate that from time to time other substances are involved in the sudden upsurge in the use of narcotics which at particular times and in particular circumstances require Customs officers to display a great deal more vigilance and attention to the problem. Looking again at Schedule 6 in relation to barbiturates, one sees that the traffickable quantity referred to is 50 grams. One could go through the two pages taken up by Schedule 6 to indicate that there is a large number of substances for which one would have thought that the possession of an amount less than the traffickable amount would nevertheless lead Customs officers on a very worthwhile course of investigation as to the source of supply. 
No, I am not saying that at all. I am saying that in attempting to deal with the problem of imported cannabis and the importers of cannabis one should not be persuaded to accept an amendment based upon the traffickable quantity set out in Schedule 6 of the Customs Act, which relates to so many other substances. I certainly believe that a large amount of opium is being imported and that a person who may be in possession of an amount slightly less than the 20 grams which constitutes the traffickable amount under the Schedule might well turn out to be an extremely valuable subject to be placed under surveillance in order to identify the source of the opium of which he is in possession and which is more likely to have been imported than to have been home grown or home produced. Whilst I have a great deal of sympathy with the way in which  Senator Button  has presented this amendment as far as the problem of cannabis is concerned, to have used that as the basis and then to extend it to a range of other narcotics in terms of their traffickable amount - 
-I am sorry. To extend it to the other items that are listed in the Schedule to the Customs Act as having a traffickable quantity I think is likely to defeat a number of purposes that all honourable senators believe ought to be pursued and pursued with some vigour. It is because the amendment does not confine itself solely to the problem of cannabis that I will not be able to support it. 
The Telecommunications (Interception) Bill relates to the powers of at least two senior officers of the Commonwealth, the DirectorGeneral of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Comptroller-General of Customs. The very lengthy debate which took place, before Parliament rose for the recess, concerning the Director-General of ASIO probably relieves us of the necessity to discuss in great detail at this second reading stage the powers conferred upon him in regard to the interception of communications, and allows us to concentrate on the position as it relates to the ComptrollerGeneral of Customs and to narcotics offences in general. The ASIO Bill has, after all, certain elaborate controls and appeal mechanisms already written into it, so my remarks, as were  Senator Button's,  will be confined generally to the question of narcotics and the pursuit of persons believed to be engaged in narcotics offences. 
The whole business of interfering with and intercepting communications of one sort or another is hardly new. The power of the Parliament and the power of Ministers of the Crown and their servants to intercept communications was well established even when the postal service was in a fairly rudimentary state. In 1 844 a secret committee of the House of Commons reported in the following terms on the question of interception of the mails and of communications:  lt must also be remembered that if such a power as this were formally abolished, the question would not be left in quite the same condition as though the power had never been exercised or disputed; by withdrawing it, every criminal conspirator against the public peace would be publicly assured that he could enjoy secure possession of the easiest, cheapest and most unobserved channel of communication, and that the Secretary of State would not under any circumstances interfere with his correspondence. 
The matter was again reviewed by the House of Commons in 1957. The Committee of Privy Councillors appointed to inquire into the interception of communications reported to the House: 
We therefore think that no useful purpose would be served by recommending that the power of interception be no longer exercised in the detection and prevention of crime, for it would remove from the hands of the Police a weapon which they have found to be effective when all other methods have been unavailing, and would announce to potential wrong-doers that they have nothing to fear from the Police in this particular respect. This, in our opinion, far from strengthening the liberty of the ordinary citizen, might very well have the opposite effect. 

 Senator Button has already referred to the report of the Law Reform Commission on Criminal Investigation. In paragraph 224 it concluded: 
First, we see no distinction in principle between telephone tapping and other forms of surveillance involving the use of electronic listening devices. Secondly, we think that the police ought not to be denied all the advantages of modern technology in fighting crime which itself uses it. Monitoring of conversations without the consent of either party ought to be permitted in certain narrowly defined instances. Such authorisations should only be granted by a federal judge or a judge of a Supreme Court of a State or Territory, and should be available only in respect of very serious offences. 
It went on to draw attention to the nature of the material that should be placed before a judge when he was asked to issue a warrant for the interception of communications. Those three reports presented in 1844, 1957 and 1975 respectively were united by the belief that the form of mass communication was being used by criminal elements or could be used by criminal elements and that the police or the law enforcement authorities should not be denied adequate access to the sorts of tools and machinery necessary to combat crime and to deal with the offences being committed. 
It has become increasingly apparent, despite a large number of attempts to maintain the contrary, that in dealing with narcotics offences we are not simply dealing with individual narcotic offenders; we are dealing with organised crime and criminality on a very large scale. In this week's issue of the  Bulletin  an analysis is provided of the work that the Federal Commission and the New South Wales Commission inquiring into narcotics matters have come up with. The  Bulletin  article states: 
The Federal commission, more so than the NSW inquiry, has laid to rest the often officially inspired myth that there is no evidence of organised crime involvement. 
The article goes on to detail an operation by the police force under the title 'Operation Gaslight' which was presented to the Federal Royal Commissioner and which drew attention to the extent of organised crime in the narcotics field. The report went on to say: 
Before and after the 1973-74 Moffitt royal commission, which warned of the dangers, some senior NSW policemen have publicly sought to deny such links and the existence of organised crime at all. 
I think it is important in balancing up the very real issue of civil liberties to which  Senator Button  has rightly drawn our attention that we should be aware also in this legislation that we are dealing with organised crime in a very large fashion. Clause 20 of the proposed Bill requires that warrants for customs officers to intercept telecommunications shall be issued only after an application has been made to a judge and after the judge has specifically satisfied himself of certain requirements presented to him in an appropriate form by the customs officers. That procedure must be followed before he goes ahead and issues the warrant. I think that it is important to understand that there is in all of these circumstances the possibility of collusion even among law enforcement officers to use this in a less than creditable fashion. 
For instance, one can imagine the situation in which Sergeant A, who is a sergeant of the police force, has a friend, Sergeant B, who is an officer of the customs service. Sergeant A is unable to get evidence regarding suspect C who, he believes, is engaged in a racket about car thefts. So he goes to his friend the customs officer and says: 1 suggest to you that there is a certain individual who is engaged in the narcotics business; so, why don't you put a tap on his telephone?' He does not reveal to his colleague in the customs service that the object of this exercise is not, in fact, to get evidence about narcotic offences but rather to get evidence which will be useful in the pursuit of his investigations about the car theft racket. So, the customs officer in all good faith goes to a judge and says: 'I have had a reasonable tip-off that such-and-such a person is engaged in dealing in narcotics. I would like to put a tap on his telephone'. The judge, or whoever grants the authorisation agrees. A couple of weeks later, the customs officer reveals to his colleague in the police force: 'Look, we have had this tap going for a while. We did not find out very much about narcotics. It does not appear that there is any narcotics offence taking place but, by gee, we heard some interesting conversations between your suspect and another person regarding a racket in stolen cars'. Although that may not be used in terms of evidence and it may not be admissible in any court of law, it may nevertheless still be a useful tool for the officer who was pursuing his investigations about car thefts to know the names of the persons with whom the suspect has been in contact on that particular issue. He receives that information by way of a tip from his friend who was listening to those conversations which initially were revealed to him under the belief that investigations on narcotics matters were being pursued. 
-I have really had very little opportunity to understand what anybody has been saying to anybody,  Senator O'Byrne,  because of the amount of noise that has been coming from the Opposition side of the chamber.  (Quorum formed)  I was dealing with a case in which I was simply saying that the use of telephone taps ostensibly for one purpose- in order to gather evidence which may be useful for an entirely separate purpose- is something that will need to be borne very much in mind, not only by the judicial officers who have the responsibility for issuing the authorisation for these taps, but by the officers of the customs service, the Attorney-General and his officers to ensure that this power which is being not newly vested in anybody's hands, but is likely to be portrayed as something related to narcotics when it is not, is a matter of considerable importance. 
-If the honourable senator waits, I will come to that. I refer the Senate to an example of the way in which telephone tapping has previously been undertaken by members of the customs service and the way in which they have pursued the use of interception of telephone conversations. In a recently published book entitled  Narc l Inside the Australian Bureau of Narcotics  written by Bernard Delaney who is the Bureau's former Southern Regional Commander,  Mr Delaney  gives a number of instances of unauthorised telephone taps undertaken by the customs service. For instance, he refers to a case where they were after a person who was suspected of being in possession of a small amount of heroin. In the book the person is referred to as 'Helmut'. After several unsuccessful attempts to get information about Helmut, the Bureau 's officer writes as follows: 
We had now tried two approaches and both had failed. We tried a third way: we made him the target of our next phone bugging. Being in the suburbs, it turned out to be less difficult than our earlier interceptions. We could get to the pillar more easily. As it happened, the pillar which connected 'Helmut's' telephone, was in front of a small vacant lot, an ideal place to park our caravan. It was an excellent  spot for receiving signals and close to the pillar in case anything went wrong. 
He goes on to reveal that during the course of that telephone tap something did go wrong. An officer of the Post-Master General 's Department arrived to inspect the pillar which contained the telephone connections. Had the PMG officer opened the pillar, the bug would have been revealed. The conversation between the various narcotics officers was recorded. It discloses that one of the officers got somewhat excited and asked what would happen if the officer of the PMG found the listening device.  Mr Delaney  who, as I said, was the former Customs officer says in his book: if he does that- 
Referring to the PMG technician finding the listening device- we still just sit. Even if they did find us here, we would just plead ignorance. We don't know anything about it. 
At a later stage they decided to try to formalise this process of telephone interception. The book continues: 
After this scare we decided that we would formalise our venture into telephone interception. The meeting in Ray Phillips' office decided that a deputation should visit the boss of the Postal Investigation Section, who continued to be so practical in handling the drug carrying mail. 
Should we lay our cards on the table, or should we put a hypothetical situation before him? Better not put the cards on the table, we could compromise him. The approach was,  What if  . . .' 
He was sympathetic but he was bound by an Act of Parliament which made it an offence for anyone to intercept a telephone communication unless it was in the interests of Australia's security. This limited the interceptions to those carried out by ASIO. 
There was no way he could help us. There was no way anyone in his department could help us. There was no way we could get a warrant to carry out this type of investigation. 
That reveals two matters that are relevant to this legislation. Quite clearly we have in a book by a former Southern Regional Commander of the Bureau of Narcotics firstly the fact that illegal telephone interception has been practised and was an important tool in some cases in pursuit of the drug peddler; and, secondly, that at that stage they felt that there was no way in which they could get a proper, legal authorisation to carry out that interception. This Bill now gives them a proper, legal method by which they will be able to intercept telephone calls in the pursuit of narcotics investigations. I believe that that is a most important tool to be placed in the hands of the Narcotics Bureau. It is one that ought to be placed there, but one which ought to be used with a great deal of restraint. As with the whole of the ASIO legislation, it potentially leaves itself open to very widespread misuse. 
There is an important matter of judgment for members of Parliament as to whether they believe that vesting that power in the hands of various officers of the Commonwealth but now requiring that a warrant should be of a judicial character before it is issued, is adequately balanced with the safeguards which we believe necessary for the protection of the rights of individuals. It has been suggested in an article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 8 June that the Federal Government has lost confidence in its Narcotics Bureau and that the somewhat traumatic events surrounding the resignation and reappointment of  Mr Harvy  Bates to his position mean that the Federal Government somehow now has less confidence or less trust in the Narcotics Bureau. The article by Anne Summers which deals with the relationship between  Mr Fife  and  Mr Bates.  Referring to  Mr Fife,  it states: 
He announced to Parliament on Tuesday night- while the Government was still dilly-dallying about what to do about the situation- that 'the Government has decided that it is appropriate, in relation to a narcotics investigation, for a warrant authorising the use of a listening device, to be issued by the judiciary.' 
Previously, the legislation provided for such warrants to be issued by the Minister or by the Comptroller-General of Customs. 
Clearly the Government has lost confidence in its own narcotics enforcement agency. 
It would be very unfortunate if the impression were created that on a widespread level the Government does not have confidence in  Mr Bates,  or in the administration of the Narcotics Bureau, or that the public has serious cause to feel that the pursuit of drug peddlers and drug offenders in this country is being hampered by corruption, inefficiency or mismanagement. I hope that that will not be an inference drawn from the way in which this Bill has been amended to provide for the use of judicial warrants. The Bill does go on to deal with a number of other matters. At this stage I would not wish to get involved in the question of penalties for narcotics offences because I believe that that is a far more difficult and substantial debate, and one that ought to be reserved until the principal Customs BUI comes before this Chamber for debate. It is one in which there needs to be a great deal of attention paid to the question of penalties, particularly penalties of a highly punitive nature. 
In clause 24 the Bill provides for the destruction of other records which may have been obtained as a result of interception, but it may well be that the simple passing on of oral information between law enforcement officers in different branches of law enforcement will serve the same purpose even though the records have been formally destroyed as a result of the operation of clause 24. Clause 27 is another important section in that it requires the ComptrollerGeneral to, firstly, furnish the Minister with certain information, including the number and type of warrants and secondly, as provided in sub-clause 2, to report in writing on the extent to which the interception of communications, or the inspection of telegrams, as the case may be, in pursuance of the warrant has assisted officers of Customs in narcotics inquiries that are being, or have been, made by officers of Customs. 
I conclude by returning to the last point made by  Senator Button.  I do not believe that it would be proper to use these listening devices to intercept the telephone conversations of people who are users of marihuana in a purely personal sense. I understand that there will be enormous problems in trying to put that into legislative form because one will never know whether one is dealing with a person who is personally a user of marihuana but who happens to be in contact with someone who is a supplier or importer of marihuana. 
No, I did not. I said that I was concerned about the same point that  Senator Button  was concerned about. I did not believe that could be put into legislative form because at some stage it is highly likely that the individual, one-off, small-time user of marihuana, may well be in communication over the telephone or in some other way that relates to this Bill with someone who is a large scale, professional importer of large amounts of marihuana, which he uses simply on the basis of trafficking for profit. To that extent I do not believe that one can find a legislative formula which rules out the telephone interception of the user simply because the chances of his being in contact with a large scale supplier not only of marihuana but also of any other narcotic substance is regarded as being remote. Perhaps it would be more dangerous than the marihuana trade itself if that were to become an excuse for wholesale interception of telephonic communications of any of the large number of people who are personal users of marihuana. The figure of 400,000 upon which  Senator Button  has eventually settled as a reasonable one for this evening would indicate the potential scope for that. Clearly though, it would be impracticable to attempt to intercept communications to that extent. It will require that judges are satisfied on proper evidence that is put to them, it will not be good enough for someone to come along to a member of the judiciary and say, 'I must have a warrant for this interception and my reasons are simply that I have all of these reasonable grounds. ' I hope that in the way in which members of the judiciary would be prepared to make an evaluation about an application for a warrant to intercept such communications they would be properly satisfied that requests were bona fide and they genuinely had a prospect of leading to the conviction of those people involved in the wholesale trade for profit in marihuana or any other narcotic substance. 
In exactly the same way as a member of the judiciary at some stage makes up his mind whether somebody is guilty or innocent- on the basis of the evidence that is put before him and his own ability to make a rational judgment. I support the Bill because I believe that the narcotics investigators have to be equipped with this power. As I said, like the ASIO Bill, it is open to a great deal of potential misuse. The necessity for the Minister and for other officers to be alert, given the fact that they will be supplied with information about the number of warrants that have been issued, will mean that in the long run the safeguard of the proper use of this legislation will lie in the integrity and the competence of a Minister of the Crown, the Minister for Customs of the day, and in the way in which the Parliament, through him, exercises its supervision over officers of the Crown acting in pursuit of their responsibilities to bring narcotic offenders to justice. 
On those grounds I support the legislation. I express at this early stage a reservation about the practicality of being able to find some form of words along the lines suggested by  Senator Button  in terms of the definition of 'narcotics offence' and rely, as I said, upon the status of the Minister and his officers to ensure that this legislation is used for proper purposes which have the support of both sides of the Parliament and is not used for those purposes which I think neither side of the Parliament would regard as legitimate and proper.  (Quorum formed). 
I support the provision of the Customs Amendment Bill, although I must say I believe that in the long run this Bill will not be effective in achieving the objectives which the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  set out for it in his second reading speech. I believe that the somewhat simplistic belief that harsher penalties are the answer to the considerable drug problem in Australia in fact will turn out to be as ill-founded in Australia as it has been in the United States and elsewhere. This piece of legislation does a number of things, lt enacts new penalties in clause 3 and draws a distinction between commercial and traffickable quantities of narcotic substances. It provides in clause 12 for revised penalties, going up to the penalty of life imprisonment. It provides in clause 6 for internal body searches to be conducted only by a registered medical practitioner. Clause 7 gives to servants of the Crown fairly extensive powers of arrest without warrant. Clause 8 relates to the use of listening devices and clause 1 3 establishes a system of pecuniary penalties for people alleged to be profiteering from narcotics. 
There are three general issues to which I want to allude to put this debate in some perspective for what I intend to say about penalties. As I said yesterday in discussing the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill, there is no doubt that organised crime is heavily involved in the narcotics industry. The  Bulletin  of 28 August reported: 
The Federal commission- 
That is  Mr Justice  Williams-  more so than the NSW inquiry, has laid to rest the often officially inspired myth that there is no evidence of organised crime involvement. 
I indicate similarly that the potential problem, particularly as far as heroin is concerned, is one of massive proportions. In an article in the  Canberra Times  of 4 June 1979,  Mr David  Gordon, the Director of a group called WHOS- We Help Ourselves- which is a very good drug rehabilitation organisation, estimated that by 1982 there could be 200,000 heroin addicts in Australia. He believes that there are at least 70,000 at the moment and that in Sydney it has reached epidemic proportions. The article states: 
Children aged only 13 were buying it- 
That is heroin-  for $30 a 'twist'- a silver foil wrap of powder, enough for two injections. Many were beginning to use the drug as soon as they entered high school. 
We know that a number of persons who have been victims of the drug racket have disappeared in the most unpleasant and mysterious circumstances. We know of the disappearance of the Wilsons in Victoria.  Senator Baume  and I know of the disappearance of Donald McKay, who was a friend and a colleague of ours in New South Wales. The number of seizures speak for themselves. For instance, the  Bulletin  of 5 June 1979 reported information from Federal drug authorities that the amount of heroin seized in 1975 amounted to 5,938 grams. By 1978 the amount confiscated had risen to 17,867 grams. So it is important to understand that this is a problem that must be tackled at its source and in relation to the people who are the original providers, procurers and pedlars of the various narcotic drugs. 
I want to make three points in general terms and then concentrate on the last of those as the main point of what I have to say. Firstly, I express a considerable amount of concern about the extent to which this legislation gets into what one might describe as reversing the onus of proof. If one looks at clauses 243B and 243D one can see that very important issues are raised. The High Court of Australia in the case of Rejfek and another v. McElroy and another dealt with the question of standards of proof. The Chief Justice, I think speaking on behalf of the Court, was at some pains to draw attention to the fact that there needed to be a clear distincion between the grounds of proof in civil and criminal matters. The Court said: 
The difference between the criminal standard of proof and the civil standard of proof is no mere matter of words: it is a matter of critical substance. No matter how grave the fact which is found in a civil case, the mind has only to be reasonably satisfied and has not with respect to any matter in issue in such a proceeding to attain that degree of certainty which is indispensable to the support of a conviction upon a criminal charge. 
I express to the Attorney a great degree of concern about the way in which the standard of proof and the onus of proof are substantially weakened in the provisions of this legislation. I believe it is necessary to be far more clear about our target- the target is the profiteer and not the victim. We need to look closer not only at the British method of dealing with drug addiction but more particularly at the recent legislation introduced in British Columbia, the Heroin Treatment Act, which I believe provides some guidelines for the way in which these problems should be attacked. 
However, I want to concentrate upon this proposition: Harsher penalties solve no problems. The simple elevation of harsher penalties into legislative form in a belief that the drug trade will disappear overnight or, indeed, that the drug trade will be stamped out simply by harsher penalties is an extremely simplistic and potentially extraordinarily dangerous point of view to take. One can perhaps even look at what the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs said in his second reading speech in the other place. He said: 
In 1 977 penalties applicable to drug offences were substantially increased. 
Of course, they were. We all know that since 1977 the problem has become considerably worse and the increase in penalties in 1977 has led to no solution of this problem. It is common to believe that the United States of America has an essentially liberal system of dealing with penalties and with narcotic offences in general compared with countries such as Australia. In fact, this is not true. In an article by Eugene Dolescha in a journal called  Crime and Delinquency  it was pointed out that, in fact, the United States is one of the most punitive of all the free nations. The author says:  the United States had an imprisonment rate of 244 per 100,000 population, the highest in the free world. That rate is still rising. Most other countries have imprisonment rates of under 100; none exceeds 165. When we compare the United States with countries that are known to have the most advanced and most humane criminal justice systems in the world, the differences are striking. 
He goes on to give illustrations. It is perhaps useful to look specifically at the United States and the experience of that country in dealing with the drug problems by the sheer imposition of harsher penalties. I rely very greatly on an article by Robert E. Glanville in the  Cornell Law Review  in 1975 entitled 'Drug Abuse, Law Abuse, and the Eighth Amendment: New York's 1973 Drug Legislation and the Prohibition Against Cruel and Unusual Punishment'. Glanville draws attention to the fact that in that year the United States introduced legislation which has some parallels with the legislation we have before us today. For instance, he pointed out: 
Mandatory life imprisonment was proposed for all dealers in dangerous drugs, and neither plea bargaining nor possibility of parole, nor youthful offender treatment would be available for certain trafficking offences. 
In the very detailed analysis in the  Cornell Law Review,  the author seeks to examine exactly what the effect of those considerably increased penalties were. He draws attention to the fact that Governor Rockefeller, in asking the legislature to pass the amendment, urged it to create an effective deterrent to the pushing of the broad spectrum of hard drugs. The author then states: 
. there is very little support for the proposition that the assumption is applicable with equal force across the entire spectrum of criminal conduct. 
He then stated how, in dealing with the narcotics situation, one has to look at certain other factors. He says: 
The efficacy of the deterrence philosophy in the area of drug abuse is particularly questionable. The 1967, the President's Commission on Law Enforcement and the Administration of Justice observed that, despite stiffened penalties, the use of and traffic in (marihuana) appear to be increasing'. Commenting specifically on the utility of mandatory sentences, the Commission remarked that 'the evidence as to the effects of mandatory minimum sentences is inconclusive '. 
He goes on to say that other authors have declared that the evidence suggests that drug addiction is relatively unaffected by the threat or the imposition of punishment. He indicates that particularly in the experience of New York after the passing of the legislation:  the initial consequence of the increased penalties was to drive traffic' further underground, not to decrease it. Dealers were encouraged to employ fourteen and fifteen year-olds who, because they were under sixteen, were immune from the severe penalties. The heightened hazards of dealing forced a further rise in the price of drugs and a concomitant increase in acquisitive crimes. By December 1 973, a mere three months after the law went into effect, the  Deputy  Chief Inspector of the New York Police Department was able to conclude that 'its returning to what it was before the new law so far as street pushers and the level above them are concerned '. 
One could go on at considerable length simply illustrating what that author has to say. But I will refer simply to an article which appeared in the New York Times of 8 October 1973 in which for the first time it was revealed by the New York authorities what had happened in order to subvert the system of harsher penalties. The article states: 
Established dealers have employed a corps of 14-year-old and 15-year-old boys- who, because they are under 16, are immune from the severe penalties of the new law- to 'hold the junk' and complete sales. One addict-pusher described these juveniles, who are sometimes armed and carry several thousand dollars, as ' a race of superkids '. 
The New York police authorities agreed that the law would lead to increased bloodshed among rival pushers and between the police and dealers. The report continues: 
The only change I've seen with this law is the guns- there sure is more of them around ', remarked a slow-speaking heroin addict who recently served four months for burglary. They say they got to sell, so if they're going to get life for it, they might as well do something worthwhile like shooting a cop'. 
I think it is important to consider the effect of these increased penalties and, indeed, the whole philosophy of extreme criminal penalties. Herbert Packer, in a book entitled  The Limits of the Criminal Sanction  written about a decade ago deals with this very admirably. He says: 
As the lack of deterrent efficiency becomes apparent, penalties are increased in the hope that they will make up in severity what they lack in certainty. The successive increases in the penalties for trafficking in narcotics may be viewed as a fever chart of the deterrent inefficiency of that group of laws. 
That is precisely what is happening in Australia. It happened in 1977; it is happening again now. All this does is simply drive out some of the small people involved in the rackets and put them more and more into the hands of a more and more expert, more and more cunning, more and more well financed and more and more prepared-to-take-risks group of pushers and individuals. 
In the House of Representatives,  Mr Jacobi,  in a very penetrating speech on this matter, referred to some of the consequences that he saw as flowing from this legislation. I quote from the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 3 May 1979: 
Firstly, the price of heroin will escalate. Secondly, this will bring increased crime in the form of theft in order to pay for the cost of each addict's habit. More addicts will also turn to pushing'. Thirdly, it will bring more holdups of chemists, more burglaries of doctors' surgeries and more forgeries of prescriptions. Fourthly, there will be periodic droughts of heroin when a trafficker is caught. This will bring more addicts to the treatment centres pleading to be relieved of their withdrawal. It will mean a greater strain on our already slender treatment resources. 
I regard that as a highly likely scenario and one that needs to be borne in mind by this Government. As I shall say in concluding my remarks soon, the most important thing about the approach to the drug problem is simply that one cannot rely upon penalties alone. One cannot enact punitive sanctions in regard to drug addiction and expect them to solve the problem when the other part of the problem- the more important part of the response to the problem is wrong- will be whether this Government is prepared now to find the extra money, not just to put people in gaol, but to treat people who have a drug problem. The Government has to start coming up with an answer whether it is prepared to find the money to expand the number of Customs officers required, to pay for the number of extra judges to sit on these cases and to pay for the extra prison warders who will be required to keep these people incarcerated. More importantly, is it prepared to cough up the money necessary for treatment and prevention before the problem reaches the endemic proportions that it will? 
In terms of the general philosophy and standards of punishment, I think one needs to have some regard to the views that have been expressed by people who have looked particularly at the question of penalties and of the philosophy of punishment. Let me refer to the Fifth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and Treatment of Offenders held in Geneva in 1975. A working paper prepared by the secretary to the Australian delegation pointed out 'that problems in sentencing arose from a lack of agreement on the social purposes which sentencing should serve' a lack of evidence as to the effectiveness of penal measures, and a lack of uniformity in the way in which present knowledge is used'. I think that applies equally to Australia which is experiencing a lack of social understanding about the purposes of these penalties and the way in which they will be used. 
In the first report of the South Australian Criminal Law and Penal Methods Reform Committee entitled 'Sentencing and Corrections' under the chairmanship of Justice Mitchell again close attention was drawn to the problem whether a government, in enacting a punitive statute, has to have with it a coherent philosophy about what it is that it is trying to achieve, not just for the persons who are involved in the crime, but for the people who might be victims of crimes and might be, in fact, the ones about whom the community should have greatest concern. In the 1978 British Home Office report of the Advisory Council on the Penal System entitled 'Sentences of Imprisonment' under the chairmanship of Lady Serota a very extensive recommendation was made in terms not of solving the problem by increasing sentences but by a reduction in maximum prison sentences and a more intelligent approach to the way in which one goes about extracting what might be some form of community retribution. 
Finally in this regard I think it would be wise for people concerned with the whole issue of sentencing and the whole issue of the effectiveness of penalties to look at what  Mr Justice  Kirby had to say in his John Barry Memorial Lecture delivered earlier this month. In that most perceptive address  Mr Justice  Kirby draws attention to one particular characteristic which he expresses in relation to  Sir John  Barry. He says of him: 
He was dubious too about deterrence, believing that courts put too much faith in deterrence, ignoring the fact that man is a risk-taking animal who hopes and expects that he will not be caught. 
I think that equally the Government needs to be aware on that basis as much as anything else about just how limited its success could well be in this particular matter. An interesting study conducted by Reginald G. Smart entitled 'Effects of legal restraint on the use of drugs: A review of empirical studies' appeared in the JanuaryMarch 1 976  Bulletin on Narcotics.  Reviewing the literature in detail, Smart comes to certain conclusions. He writes: 
Empirical evidence on legal charges is so sparse that the field or the unknown is Tar greater than that or the known. We have virtually no information on any restraint acting alone, except for a reduction in legal supplies of methedrine and amphetamines. 
He goes on: 
Virtually nothing is known of the effects of increasing legal penalties for narcotic or cannabis possession or trafficking, requiring jail rather than fines, compulsory treatment, civil commitment and the like. No analysis whatever can be found of the effects of police activities such as drug raids, sweeps, search and seizure laws, increased surveillance, or increasing the size of drug squads. Further, no information seems available on the effects on drug use of international treaties such as the various International Conventions on Narcotics, or the 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances. 
At present, we are without firm information on the effects of any legislation . . . designed to decrease cannabis use or the use of psychoactive drugs, other than stimulants. 
I think the Government needs to be in a position to indicate, when it comes to Parliament to ask for radically increased penalties, that it has some idea about the extent to which the enactment of those radically increased penalties is likely to be effective or not effective. For instance, let us look at the testimony of the Honourable Jacob K. Javits, a United States senator for New York, in talking about the work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation with harsher penalties being imposed in regard to marihuana. In a statement to the Select Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control of the United States House of Representatives on 15 March 1977 he said: 
According to the FBI, more than 2 million persons have been arrested for marihuana offenses in this country since 1970. We continue to reap more than 40,000 marihuana arrests per year, and this distorted priority has cost us the equivalent of billions of dollars in scarce law enforcement resources which are so desperately needed in programs to reduce violent crime and hard drug use. 
Although that refers only to the specific issue of marihuana it gives an indication that a government has to have some clear idea- I believe the Government has been able to express oneabout its exact purposes in this legislation and exactly what it believes the effect of this legislation will be other than to provide vastly increased penalties for those people who are properly caught and properly punished. 
I do not resile for a moment from the belief that the harshest penalties ought to be available to the courts in terms of dealing with people who traffic and profiteer in human misery who make their living, if it can be called that, and who certainly make their money, out of the induced misery of hundreds of thousands of their innocent fellow citizens. 
I certainly do not have in mind the ultimate penalty. Frankly, I would not support that under any circumstances for any offence. 
-I am talking about life imprisonment as far as this legislation allows it. I think it is important to understand, as I said, that no piece of criminal legislation will deal with a problem which is essentially not a problem of laws. As the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare pointed out and as many other committees have pointed out, the problem of drug abuse is a socio-medical problem. It is not exclusively a legal problem. It is therefore not open exclusively to legal remedies in terms of dealing with the issues that are involved. 
I believe that in addition to any penal sanctions to be provided by legislation there are several things that a government must do. I hope that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  or the responsible Minister in this place will be able to indicate that the Government at least has some forward thinking as far as these other matters are concerned. Firstly, obviously we need effective drug education. We know this from the writings of many authors. The most recent article I have seen is by Kraus in the Australian Journal of Social Issues of February 1979 entitled 'Drug Education: An Abrogation of Professional Responsibility?' Kraus urging caution says: 
Findings of research (conducted mainly by outsiders of the programs) have accumulated, which showed that the dissemination of drug knowledge not only does not prevent but could actually encourage drug experimentation by juveniles. 
So, I am referring to drug education which is effective in doing several things. Firstly, it should be effective in not encouraging kids to turn to drugs by way of experimentation. Secondly, it should be effective in getting across the message that even if people know the pusher personally but he happens to be the son or daughter of a close friend of the family or is somebody they went to school with or somebody they have known for 15 years, nevertheless, as a pusher, one's responsibility must be to turn him in. Part of the real problem of the drug scene in Australia is that too many people know the pusher and supplier on that sort of a friendly basis and are unwilling, because of the social pressures around them, to turn in the people who ought to be turned in, people who in turn may well be useful in identifying the exact source of supplies and the really big fish in the profiteering racket. 
The second thing that we need to do is progressively to get clear in our minds the distinction between cannabis and other narcotics in terms of our socio-medical and legal responses. 
I accept the point from  Senator Chipp,  as I did from  Senator Peter  Baume yesterday, as to the distinction between cannabis and narcotics. 
The third need, as I said initially, is more effective treatment programs and more support. That means that more money must be made available to deal with the problem. The fourth point is that the narcotics forces must be properly strengthened. Allied with that, as a fifth point, is the need for the Government to act quickly to clear away the suspicion that, at the moment, surrounds narcotics enforcement authorities in this country, suspicion, which, until cleared away, will hamper them in doing their proper work. 
As my sixth point, I believe that Federal powers in this area must be sufficient to override State powers so that the corruption that goes on in States such as New South Wales will not be used as an excuse to prevent effective enforcement of the narcotics laws. As a senator from New South Wales I have no problem in saying that in this area Federal laws ought to be able entirely to override State laws, where those laws are ineffective or being subverted because certain people in the States are part of the corrupt system, and they allow it to flourish. The seventh point is that there must be a realisation that this is a socio-medical problem rather than one of purely a legal nature. My eighth point is that legislation must be seen to work as a deterrent. That is to say, if we are to have deterrent legislation it ought to be used effectively. The judiciary ought to be encouraged to make effective use of it, but also it ought to be used in a fashion that is uniform so that people will not believe that it is designed to trap and penalise some offenders but not others. It must be legislation that punishes equally the bloke who is caught and is defended by someone through legal aid as distinct from the bloke who has made enough money out of the filthy trade to hire Queen's Counsel at $2,500 a day to persuade some colleague on the Bench that his client really ought to be dealt with in a different fashion. Simply because he has made money from it he is able to use it to subvert the legal system and get himself a better form of treatment from the courts than can the person who does not have the same financial resources. 
Finally, the Government must be willing to experiment and to look for new solutions. It has attempted to do so in the Australian Capital Territory. Its various amendments to the way in which it enforces the Poisons and Narcotics Drugs Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory need to be kept under close observation. It is important that the Government not close its mind to new solutions, to the gathering of new facts and to understanding that the problem it thinks it is dealing with is a permanently changing one. A permanently changing type and number of people are involved. It is important that, as a result, Government responses be flexible. It must realise that it cannot simply legislate in respect of narcotics offences in the way that it could in the days when it was seeking to prohibit the use of alcohol, and cannot establish treatment methods relevant to problems which are no longer of the same dimension, thus leaving unidentified and untreated the new problems and challenges that face us. 
I support the legislation. I regard it as an important tool to place in the hands of law enforcement authorities. It presents severe problems, especially insofar as the reverse onus of proof is concerned. Regrettably, I believe that the provision of increased penalties alone, without all of the other responses that are necessary, will simply fill up the gaols rather than empty the drug rehabilitation and treatment centres. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is he aware that in the book recently published by  Mr Renouf,  the former Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs, a proposal is advanced that Australia should abandon its claim to much of the Antarctic continent? Secondly, I ask the Minister whether he has seen the editorial which appeared in the  Canberra Times  of 2 1 August 1979, which suggested that  Mr Renoufs  advice should be accepted to the extent that Australia should proclaim its intention, when the time is ripe, to transfer its claimed sovereignty to an agreed international regime. I ask the Minister whether the Australian Government has any proposals in mind to abandon, now or in the foreseeable future, any of its claims to sovereignty over any part of the Antarctic continent? 
It seems to me that three or four distinct matters arise in this debate. Two relate specifically to the decisions regarding the Channel 10 and Channel 4 licence inquiries. The third is essentially the one about the discussion of public interest criteria in the whole field of broadcasting regulation. The final one is the credibility of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, which has been attacked by  Senator Ryan  and  Senator Evans  this morning. 
I wish to deal only briefly with parts of the Channel 10 and Channel 4 decisions. The Channel 10 decision that was ultimately made has been attacked by  Senator Evans  as one that failed to give sufficient reasons. The Tribunal was accused of succumbing to blackmail by  Mr Murdoch  in relation to the matters which he presented. However, I must say that there was an eloquent piece, if not of blackmail, then certainly of pressure applied to the Tribunal by  Senator Evans  who, when told that he had to confine his remarks to 30 minutes, made it quite clear what his recourse would be if he were not allowed the more than one hour that he took to state his case and cross-examine the witnesses who were present. 
The Channel 10 inquiry indicated something that was also indicated in the Channel 4 inquiry. We see this in the way in which the Tribunal expressed its decision. It stated: 
The onus of proof, therefore, would seem to rest squarely upon those who would contend in a particular case that approval should not be granted. 
I think it is important to understand that within the framework of the Act under which the Tribunal must operate, that is in fact where the onus of proof lies. That point was made equally by the Tribunal in its decision in the WIN4 inquiry which at page 6 stated: 
The Tribunal considers it desirable to point out that the Act appears to raise what is, in effect, a legal presumption in favour of the approval of such transactions. Section 92f(4a) does not authorise the Tribunal to make whatever decision in relation to a proposed transaction it would consider appropriate in the public interest. Rather, the section says that the Tribunal 'shall not refuse to grant approval . . . unless the Tribunal . . . considers it necessary to do so, et cetera'. The onus of proof, therefore, would seem to rest squarely upon those who would contend in a particular case that approval should not be granted. And the requirement that the Tribunal must find it 'necessary' to refuse approval, in the public interest as defined, means that the onus of proof is a heavy one. 
The Tribunal further stated: 
In this instance there being no approved parties to the hearing no evidence was placed before the Tribunal to suggest the public interest would be affected in any adverse sense. 
Therefore it is important to understand the framework within which the Tribunal has to operate in making its decisions and the fact that in the Channel 10 and Channel 4 inquiries there was a clear onus of proof, not upon the applicants to demonstrate that the application should be agreed to, but upon those who opposed the application to demonstrate to the Tribunal that it should be refused. That was the judgment which the Tribunal was required to make within the framework of the Act and on both occasions it made it succinctly. It is important to clear up one final point about the Channel 4 inquiry and that is the way in which  Senator Ryan  rather trailed  Mr Gyngell  's interest throughout the matter. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Chaney)  has indicated that  Mr Gyngell  took no part in the inquiry, and it ought to be put into the record that at page 8 of the WIN4 decision, the following appears: 
At the Tribunal meeting at which the decision was made the  Chairman  abstained from voting. 
It is important that that be clear in our minds. My final comment about the WIN4 inquiry, and the criticism that the Tribunal failed to pursue the question of the ownership and structure of Oberon Broadcasters Pty Ltd is that this matter should be viewed in the light of a comment which was made by  Mr Moremon,  who conducted the inquiry, as recorded at page 12 of the transcript of evidence. In addressing  Mr Maguire,  counsel for the Australian Labor Party, he said: 

 Mr Maguire, the tribunal has considered your application on behalf of the Australian Labor Party to be an approved party in these proceedings. We took account of all the points you raised and particularly noted that you do not propose to call any further evidence which would assist the tribunal. We must deny your application in accordance with the criteria which the tribunal follows in granting approved party status . . . However, as you pointed out in your application, the tribunal has accepted as relevant point (2) of the ALP submission and it is our intention to thoroughly pursue those points as invited by you so do to. In denying your application, the tribunal does not accept the argument by  Mr Nicholas  regarding the narrow scope of this inquiry. In our view there are serious public interest considerations involved in the proposed share transaction which we will be examining during these proceedings. 
Therefore, it is not even correct to say that public interest criteria were entirely excluded from the WIN4 inquiry. The Tribunal at an earlier stage, in February 1978, in presenting its report on the 4IP Ipswich licence transfer inquiry set down in paragraph 2. 1 5 of that report, under the heading Public Interest Criteria, the extent to which it considered various matters when dealing with the question of public interest. One matter mentioned at that stage, was 'the extent of concentration of ownership or control of mass media generally'. Therefore, I think that it is important to realise that the issue which has been raised by honourable senators opposite about public interest criteria is not one which has escaped the attention of either the Government in framing the legislation in the first place or of the Tribunal, in the way in which it has gone about its particular task. I think it is important to look a little behind some of the attacks made upon the Tribunal, and some of the criticisms launched at the Tribunal and the sorts of decisions that it makes. I therefore want to refer to the credibility of the Tribunal in terms of the decision made by it in relation to the 2HD application. As the Senate would undoubtedly be aware, 2 HD is a radio station in Newcastle- not a particularly successful radio station- which is owned and controlled by the Australian Labor Party. In its own determination, the Tribunal says: 
The tribunal is aware from its own records and from evidence tendered at the hearing, that radio station 2HD has proved to be a barely viable operation in recent years. 
Presumably the Australian Labor Party conducts 2HD with as much success as it conducted the economy when it had control of it, or would if it had control of it again. 
That is the situation that the Australian Labor Party faced in Newcastle. I quote now from an article in the  Financial Review  of 1 7 July 1979: 
The sale of 2HD by the NSW Labor Party to NBN-3, dominated by the local Wansey and Lamb family interests, would give Newcastle the most concentrated media ownership of any major city in Australia. 
It is interesting to note that the Australian Labor Party, committed as it says it is to the diversification of ownership of the electronic media, should have in the Newcastle case attempted to sell off its radio holdings in order to increase media concentration in the State's second largest city. It sought to do so under some false colours, and not with entire unanimity among the Labor Party branches in the area, because in an article entitled 'Broadcasting Tribunal's stormy Newcastle passage', which appeared in the  Financial Review  of 25 June 1979, Jefferson Penberthy writes: 
It has been shown that the decision to sell 2HD was pushed through the machineries of the NSW Labor Party and the Labour Council (the 69 per cent and 31 per cent owners respectively) at least partly on the basis of misinformation about tribunal permission for stations such as 2HO to erect S-kilowatt transmitters. 
Delegates were first told, incorrectly, that this was a direction which would require the expenditure of some $260,000 to upgrade the struggling station's power. 
The article goes on to indicate the way in which  Mr Ducker  and his associates were able to con a large number of people into accepting this move by the Labor Party to sell off 2hd. The Tribunal, of course, ruled against the selling off of 2hd. It said that it would not be in the public interest because it would amount to too much concentration of media ownership in Newcastle. 
I must say that the people of Newcastle appear to have responded very well.  Mr J.  Kidd,  President  of the Newcastle Trades Hall Council, talking about the Tribunal 's decision, said: 
I am delighted. The Tribunal is to be commended on its forthright decision. 

 Mrs H. Brown, secretary of the Raymond Terrace branch of the ALP, said that the decision was good both for the Labor movement and the people of Newcastle. A further comment on the Tribunal 's decision reads: 

 Mr R. Phillips, a junior vice+president of Newcastle Trades Hall Council, said on Wednesday night that he was very pleased with the decision. 
The credibility of the Tribunal in Newcastle is not a matter which is in the same degree of dispute as it appears to be from honourable senators here. I quote from the editorial of the  Newcastle Morning Herald  of '20 July 1979: 
The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has broken new ground by invoking the concept of public interest in refusing to sanction a proposed Newcastle broadcasting merger . . . 
Further on the editorial comments: 
In its decision the Tribunal accorded primacy to the public interest without strictly defining what this meant. 
Clearly in this case it decided that Newcastle people would best be served by a spread of ownership in the broadcast media. Its decision has set a benchmark in showing the tribunal as willing to run counter to major commercial interests. 
The editorial concludes: 
The tribunal 's decision is to be welcomed. It accords with the views against concentration expressed by successive Federal governments and major broadcasting inquiries since broadcasting regulations were introduced more than 40 years ago. 
As a result, one can see precisely what it is about the Broadcasting Tribunal that is really upsetting the Australian Labor Party, which has put no good case as to the inability of the Tribunal to come to the decisions that it did, or the legal requirements preventing the Tribunal coming to the decisions which it did, or indeed establishing that it is unaware of the necessity to consider matters of public interest. Having demonstrated that and, as I believe, having demonstratedthe interests of the Labor Party in getting back at the Tribunal because it was prevented from selling ofits lame duck 2hd, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
As a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs I wish to address a few remarks to the report. 
-I was fully expecting to receive the assistance of the honourable senator in this matter. I think I should commence by saying that  Senator Evans,  as I understand it, made a fairly detailed speech on the report when it was first brought down. Although the Notice Paper shows him as being in continuation, I believe that, in fact, he had concluded his remarks on this matter. 
One of the most important aspects of this report is to draw attention to the fact that the process of law reform is an on-going process and to draw to the attention of the Senate and to the attention of Parliament generally and, indeed, to the attention of those bodies that are professionally concerned with the question of law reform, the fact that the whole process of law reform is a matter which just does not concern simply the lawyers. It concerns not only the other members of Parliament who are as legislators equally responsible in the long run for drafting and enacting statutes. It is a matter, furthermore, that undoubtedly finds a great deal of sympathy in the wider community when people are continually affronted in their daily lives with the situation in which laws are no longer applicable, in which the courts and other bodies draw attention of the public and of the wider community to the failures of the law in certain areas and, indeed, to the inconsistencies of the law in certain areas. 
It will be seen in this report, for instance, that some attention is given to a particular example involving a matter of the law as it relates to families in which a judge of the New South Wales Supreme Court was able to draw attention to the fact that the operation of the law as it was, and even the operation of the law as it had been updated by the passage of the Family Law Act, nevertheless had brought about a situation which, from the community's point of view, was entirely unsatisfactory. Neither the Supreme Court of New South Wales nor the Family Court had the sort of jurisdiction that one would have expected after nearly 80 years of federal law affecting family matters and family relationships and which should have been solved long before this date. 
I want to turn to several of these specific recommendations which are to be found in the report entitled 'Reforming the law'. The first of these- I think this is an important one- is the recommendation that the Australian Law Reform Commission should continue in its reports to present detailed draft legislation to Parliament together with its reports for consideration. As honourable senators would be aware, once a reference is given to the Australian Law Reform Commission it obliged to report back to this Parliament. The Attorney-General makes the report available. In the past the Law Reform Commission has, most advisedly, dealt with this by appending, where appropriate, actual draft legislation. This is a technique which brings to the Parliament the sort of legislation which is prepared by people who are not part of the normal parliamentary system, not part of the Cabinet system, not part of the system involving parliamentary counsel and all the other adjuncts to the lawmaking process that are uniquely confined within the parliamentary arena. That statute proposals in detail come forward from the Law Reform Commission which has established, under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Kirby, a most enviable reputation for the amount of consultation, work, thought and argument that goes into its proposals, is a most worthwhile initiative. 
We have seen in recent reports of that Commission dealing with such matters as defamation and privacy specific details about what the legislative consequences of a report prepared by a body established by the Parliament to advise the Parliament ought to be. I think it would be a good example to be followed not only by those committees and commissions involved in the business of law reform, but also by those that are involved in recommending changes to statute law for the reports to contain some detailed recommendation about the changes that they want to see specifically in the law in question. 
Recommendation 5.5 of the report deals with the position of the relationship between law reform commissions and the Parliamentary Counsel. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  who is in charge of the chamber this evening, and other Ministers would be well aware that in recent years one of the greatest bottlenecks that has occurred in the analysis and the preparation of legislative proposals coming before this chamber and before the Parliament in general has been the lack of staff and the lack of expert persons available to the Office of Parliamentary Counsel. 
As a member who is not familiar with the detailed work done by Cabinet and Cabinet committees, I am nevertheless aware of the amount of time that is lost and the number of delays that are occasioned because of the necessity for parliamentary counsel properly to cast their eyes over every word that appears in statute law. The recommendation here that provides a flexibility of arrangements between the law reform commissions on the one hand and the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel on the other so that there is an exchange and a constant flow of personnel and ideas between these two particular important bodies in our legislative framework is a matter that is certainly worthy of far greater attention being given to it than the Government seems to have given until this date. 
As a back bench or private member of the Senate, I am most concerned to see some effect given to the proposals in recommendation 5.6 of this report. That recommendation reads as follows: 
As a means of providing, among other things, an effective parliamentary opportunity for the consideration of law reform proposals neglected by the executive, there should be initiated a system to guarantee regular debate of Private Members' Bills, along the lines of the Westminster ballot procedure. 
I consider it most important that the Parliament should have the opportunity- far greater opportunity than it has had in the past- to deal with matters which could be described as private members' Bills. I want to say something about both private members' Bills and the proposal which refers specifically to the Westminster ballot. Under the Westminster ballot system members of the Westminster Parliament who wish, in the course of a parliamentary session, to initiate a private member's Bill give notice of their intention. The names of those members are then placed in a ballot and are assigned by lot a position on a list, which guarantees that the first couple of people whose names are on the private members' list at least introduce their private members' Bills and get them to the second reading stage in the Westminster Parliament in the course of that parliamentary session. 
I draw attention to two particular matters which I consider to be important illustrations of the effect of this system. In the session of the British Parliament which came to an end only with the decision of  Mr Callaghan  finally to submit himself to the inevitable judgment of the British population, a Bill on freedom of information had been introduced by the Liberal member for the Isle of Ely,  Mr Clement  Freud. The Senate Committee which presented the report which is before the Senate, namely, the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, is almost at the stage of being able to bring to the Parliament its final report on the Freedom of Information Bill which was introduced into the Parliament by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  some time ago. Freedom of information, which by and large has been resisted in most Westminster parliaments- certainly, by and large, it has been resisted in this Parliament and it has been resisted, in particular, in the United Kingdom Parliament- nevertheless came forward in the British Parliament as the subject of a private member's Bill which engendered a great deal of debate. It is unfortunate from the point of view of that particular legislative measure that there was no opportunity for a final vote on the Bill before the Parliament was dissolved, particularly as it had been indicated that there was very wide bipartisan support for the measure in question. 
Perhaps a more interesting example in some ways is the fact that the current British Prime Minister,  Mrs Thatcher,  made her first speech in the House of Commons on a private member's BUI. She put her name in the ballot procedure for private members' Bills and her name was drawn in the No. 1 position before she had made her maiden speech to the House of Commons.  Her  maiden speech was made introducing a private member's Bill, one very much along the lines of a freedom of information Bill because it was a Bill which sought to provide that meetings of local government councils throughout the United Kingdom could be held only in public and that the Press and members of the public should have access at all times to all aspects of local government meetings in the United Kingdom. Honourable senators who are familiar with the operation of local government in Australia undoubtedly have been affronted from time to time to see the alleged representations of the people- the elected representatives of the people- hive themselves off into private and secret discussion and make decisions which affect individuals and ratepayers without making themselves open to public and Press scrutiny. The Bill which  Mrs Thatcher  introduced as a private member's Bill passed through all stages in the House of Commons and was given a very speedy passage through the House of Lords. For some 25 years or so it has been part of the statute law of the United Kingdom. 
In Australia the record has not been quite as hopeful as one might have wished. For instance, buried somewhere in the Notice Paper of the Senate, after some three years, is a Bill standing in the name of our colleague,  Senator Bonner.  It is a Bill which raises important matters of principle. It is a Bill which is important to all members of the Aboriginal community throughout Australia. It is a Bill which twice has been taken through to the second reading stage in this chamber. It has then been pushed down to the bottom of various Notice Papers while we have debated every pettifogging Bill on poultry levies, book bounties, and dental alloys- just about any other matter of legislation, two-line legislation, including legislation making the rednosed wombat a protected animal. We have debated that type of legislation while legislation of particular significance to  Senator Bonner  and to the people whom he has a particular concern to represent in this Parliament has not been brought forward for proper debate in this chamber after some three or four separate parliamentary sessions. I think that is highly regrettable. In fact, I think that the Government stands somewhat condemned for the fact that that private member's Bill has been introduced and has not been taken through all its stages so that other members of the Senate have an opportunity to discuss it. As I said, it has been languishing on the Senate Notice Paper for a considerable period, buried fairly low down on the list. 
It is important, therefore, that a procedure outlined in a recommendation in a committee report, that the Executive should make opportunity available for the introduction of private members' Bills into the Parliament to effect law reform- law reforms initiated by private members of the Parliament and not law reforms dependent upon the whim of the Executive- is a procedure to which the Government should give far greater attention. The report contains considerable discussion about the number of private members' Bills which in the past have been introduced into the Australian Parliament and have not been dealt with. I think that every member of the Senate would find himself very much affected by the fact that one of the most significant parts of the Australian electoral system, namely, compulsory voting, was brought into the Parliament and passed through the Parliament as the subject of a private member's Bill. That piece of legislation, which has had a most profound effect on the Austraiian political system and the way in which it has developed, was introduced as a private member's Bill and passed through the Parliament. 
One could go back and find other examples of private members' Bills. The report contains other examples, including Bills relating to matrimonial law and Bills which were introduced by the Opposition and passed through the Parliament. I think it is regrettable that of all the parliaments with the Westminster system, with which we are familiar, and of all the parliaments in the democratic system, with which we are familiar, this Parliament is probably the one with the most restricted record in facilitating private members' Bills coming before the members of the chambers for consideration. I hope that the Government, when it presents its reply to this report- the six months required under the current system has not expired- will deal with this matter. 
-Well the six months which the Government has accepted in principle should govern its responses to parliamentary reports. I refer honourable senators to paragraph 1 .6 of the report before the Senate, which states: 
In the history of the Federal Parliament only eight Private Members' Bills have passed into law. 
One could say that that represents roughly one every decade. The report continues: 
The more important of these measures involved the assurance of the lives of children under the age of ten years (Life Assurance Companies Act 1905), the exemption of persons from service on the grounds of conscientious beliefs (Defence (No. 2) Act 1939), compulsory voting (Electoral (Compulsory Voting) Act 1924), the establishment of a woman's domicile for the purposes of instituting proceedings in any matrimonial cause (Matrimonial Causes Act 1955), and the siting of the new and permanent Parliament House (Parliament Act 1974). 
It appears that we have no difficulty facilitating the consideration of private members' Bills which go to a matter of such supreme national importance- not to mention our own convenience- as the siting of the new and permanent Parliament House. The paragraph continues: 
The other Private Members' Bills enacted were the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1909, the Supply and Development (No. 2) Act 1939, and the Australian Capital Territory Evidence (Temporary Provisions) Act 1971. Two Private Members' Bills are presently before the Senate: the Aborigines and Islanders (Admissibility of Confessions) Bill 1978 and the Constitution Alteration (Holders of Office of Profit) Bill 1 978, the latter of which has been referred to this Committee for enquiry and report. It is not uncommon for such Bills to be introduced into the Australian Parliament; what is uncommon is for them to be debated and enacted. 
I turn to only three other recommendations that the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs came forward with. The first is that just as the Government has undertaken to attempt to reply to these reports within a period of six months, so we recommend that Ministers should be obliged to respond within six months of the receipt of the Committee 's reports by stating to the Parliament the Government's intention with respect to the Commission proposals in question. This means in effect that when the Law Reform Commission comes forward with a series of recommendations the Government should seek to respond to the recommendations of the Law Reform Commission in exactly the same way as it has undertaken to respond to reports which come to it from parliamentary committees. When one considers the amount of time, effort, money and intellectual ability expended by the Law Reform Commission in putting together reports and, in most cases, accompanying them with detailed legislative provisions, it is incumbent upon the Government not simply to accept these reports and leave them to gather dust around the place but to respond to the suggestions made to it by its own expert advisers on law reform by saying whether it intends to take any action on the law reform proposals in question. 
Paragraph 5.19 illustrates a matter which  Senator Missen,  the  Chairman  of this Committee, has already referred to in a debate earlier this evening. This matter goes not so much to staff ceilings as to funds. The paragraph states: 
That sufficient funds be provided to enable the Australian Law Reform Agencies Conference to continue on a regular basis. 
Throughout this report we draw attention to the fact that if law reform commissions are to do their job effectively they have to have adequate sources of finance. It is of no use believing that simple non-expenditure on the law reform commissions is a way of saving government revenue, because if the net effect of that is to bring about a situation in which valuable proposals for law reform are not brought forward, we will find in the not too distant future that that is an extremely false economy. 
The final recommendation to which I wish to turn my attention is in paragraph 5.23, which reads: 
That measures be taken to establish an efficient permanent secretariat for the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. 
The work that the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General has been able to do in recent years, I think, has been notable. The attitude of co-operation between the Federal and State authorities on the important matters which require some uniformity in the law throughout Australia or which require a co-operative attitude between the Federal and State governments has been facilitated over recent years by the development of the Standing Committee. I think that the Standing Committee has been able to operate in an essentially bipartisan and cooperative manner. It has given high priority to the question of what is really in the public benefit and what, in terms of the co-ordination and arrangement of various law proposals, needs to be put on a national footing. This recommendation is that a permanent secretariat be set up. It does not have to be a large secretariat. It would be, I hope, a secretariat unlike some of those which  Senator Rae  finds so objectionable. It should be under the direct control of the Parliament and should not be given some sort of independent existence free from any degree of parliamentary scrutiny and control. It would be a small secretariat which could serve to act as the clearing house for the Standing Committee and as a permanent reminder that the process of law reform is not simply a one-off and ad hoc job whenever the Attorneys-General can get together or whenever a matter becomes of such a scandalous proportion that national action has to be undertaken to avoid national political repercussions. 
In conclusion I simply wish to say that the members of this Committee will be waiting with great interest to see what the response of the Attorney-General is to this report when the six months period is up. I think that we would be mindful of the fact that the use of private members' Bills in this Parliament is not a matter which lies within the hands of the Executive. It is not up to the Executive to facilitate or not facilitate the use of private members' Bills in this place. It is up to each member of the Senate individually to insist, when private members' Bills come forward and are considered by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber to be important matters, that it should be understood that the Parliament is not the Parliament of the Executive but is the Parliament of the individual members of the Parliament. When private members' legislation comes forward and is regarded as being worthy of debate it should take precedence, I believe, over the simple convenience of the Executive to get through its minor amendments and its technical alteration to this, that and the other Bill which from time to time it requires passed as much for the convenience of the Administration as for the better government of the people of Australia. 
I hope, therefore, that at the end of the six months period the Attorney-General will be able to report that the recommendations contained in this report are ones that the Executive is prepared to take the necessary action upon and that they will commend themselves equally to individual honourable senators who are prepared to take more of an individual responsibility and to shoulder more of an individual burden in ensuring that the law in Australia is kept under regular and constant review and that necessary reforms can be initiated and carried through by the activities of private honourable senators just as easily as they can at the whim and according to the timetable of the Executive. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. In the Government's guidelines to the Schools Commission the recurrent grants to government schools, in real money terms, have remained static for 1980 whilst the recurrent grants to non-government schools have been increased. Is there justification for the criticism that this means that the nongovernment sector has benefited at the expense of government schools? 
-On behalf of  Senator Messner  I present the following petition from 56 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition ofthe undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we have heard the expressed intentions of one entrepreneur to bring the Red Army Choir to Australia, and declare, that regardless of its artistic merits or demerits, the Red Army Choir is as much a unit of the Red Army as a division of tanks or artillery. It is but a propaganda unit to glorify the Soviet regime in song and music. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that just as entry into Australian ports is denied to Soviet warships, so too will entry be denied to the Red Army Choir. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he recalls that in the report of  Mr Justice  Moffitt, the royal commissioner who inquired into allegations of organised crime in New South Wales clubs in 1974, the royal commissioner warned: 
There appears to be a very real danger that organised crime from overseas will infiltrate this country in a substantial fashion. 
Has the attention of the Attorney been drawn to two recent books- one entitled  Narc  and written by a former narcotics agent,  Mr Delaney,  and the other entitled  The Godfather in Australia  and written by  Mr Bottom,  a former special adviser on organised crime to the New South Wales State Government, both of which give details of the penetration of organised crime into Australia? Is the Attorney aware of statements made by the New South Wales Liberal Member of the Legislative Assembly,  Mr John  Dowd, detailing the involvement of certain New South Wales businessmen with people currently on trial for drug smuggling in Thailand? Has the Attorney seen reports that the Mafia and other United States criminal elements may be involved in the bird smuggling racket which has now seen a Customs officer charged with being part of this conspiracy? Can the Attorney assure the people of Australia that all reasonable steps are being taken by the Commonwealth to prevent the spread of organised crime into Australia, that the police and other resources of the Commonwealth are adequate to do this, and that the methods of co-operation and liaison between various Commonwealth authorities, between Commonwealth and State authorities, and between Commonwealth and international authorities are adequate to do this? 
I wish to raise a different matter in the adjournment debate this evening. At the same time I express my complete support for the views which have been put forward by  Senator Missen, Senator Harradine  and  Senator Peter  Baume this evening concerning the Charter 77 victims in Czechoslavakia. The matter I raise concerns a domestic political arrangement. In 1977, at the general election,  Mr Paul  Baker was the Australian Democrats candidate for the seat of Paterson in New South Wales. At that election he polled 6.6 per cent of the vote in Patersonsome 4250 votes- compared with 1.45 per cent for  Mr William  Ignatius O'Donnell, an independent candidate, 57.61 per cent for  Mr Frank  Lionel O 'Keefe, the National Country Party candidate, and 34.28 per cent for Kerry Donald Scott, the Australian Labor Party candidate. 

 Mr Baker incurred certain debts in the course of his campaign. He had certain literature printed for him, including a free newspaper which was headed: 'Introducing Paul Baker, Australian Democrats Candidate for Paterson. Your Family's Future Depends on You'. In that four page newspaper  Mr Baker  introduced himself and the policies of the Australian Democrats, made some comments about the defeat of communism- there is an article in the newspaper entitled: 'This is how close we are to Communism '-and exposed the appalling record of the Australian Labor Party when it was in government. Provided on the back of the newspaper was an elaborate how-to-vote chart which promoted  Mr Baker  as the candidate for the seat of Paterson and promoted the Australian Democrats candidates for the Senate election. That how-to-vote chart was headed on one side: How to vote Don Chipp and the Australian Democrats and make your second preference Labor'. On the other side it was headed: 'How to vote Don Chipp and the Australian Democrats and make your second preference LiberalNCP.' The newspaper was authorised by Paul Baker, RMB 55 Pacific Highway, Ourimbah 2258, and was published by Regency Press. 
Regency Press is a small printing operation located in Barney Street, North Parramatta, New South Wales. In good faith, Regency Press undertook the printing of this and other material on behalf of  Mr Baker.  However,  Mr Baker  declined to pay for the material which was published with his authorisation and on his behalf as a candidate and which promoted both him and the Australian Democrats. Regency Press, which as I said is a small family operation, has been pursuing a debt of $1,375.95 which it requires  Mr Baker  to pay. It has been through all of the normal procedures of writing to  Mr Baker  at the address which he gave and at which he appears no longer to be resident. Thereafter, the company engaged the services of Transearch Commercial Investigators Pty Ltd to find out where  Mr Baker  might be. Transearch in turn advised Regency Press that it was unable to locate the individual concerned. As a result, this company, to whom a debt of $1,300 is a substantial debt, a potentially crippling debt, on 4 June 1 979 wrote to  Senator D.  L. Chipp, the Parliamentary Leader of the Australian Democrats, at Parliament House. It drew  Senator Chipp  's attention to the fact that the company had printed two newspapers for the Australian Democrats candidate in Paterson,  Mr Paul  Baker, and that the amount which he owed the company was $1,375.95. It appealed to  Senator Chipp,  as Leader of the Australian Democrats, as to whether that party was prepared to honour the obligations entered into by a candidate who stood under the banner of that party.  Senator Chipp  did not reply directly to Regency Press, but a letter of 1 August 1979 addressed to  Mr E.  R. Bickford, General Manager, Regency Press Pty Ltd, 14 Barney Street, North Parramatta, New South Wales, 2 1 5 1 , stated:  1 refer to your letter of 26 July addressed to  Senator Chipp  concerning an account between your Company and  Mr Paul  Baker. 
Although  Mr Baker  stood as an Australian Democrat candidate in 1977, the Australian Democrats are not liable for debts incurred by him. 
Wc regret wc cannot bc of more assistance to you in this matter. 
The letter was signed by Peter Dalton, Assistant Private Secretary to  Senator D.  L. Chipp. I raise this matter because, as one who has some claim to a fair amount of experience in the operations of political parties during election campaigns and as one who has served in various capacities in the Liberal Party in New South Wales- as a campaign manager, as a member of the State Executive of the Party and of various other committees concerned with the operations of the Party- I am aware that the general practice of the Liberal Party is that debts incurred by candidates on behalf of the Liberal Party are honoured by the Liberal Party when the candidate or his electorate committee is unable to honour them. We have had a number of occasions in which candidates or electorate committees have authorised expenditure. Although we have sought to recover the money involved from those people or committees, where that has not been possible the Liberal Party has faithfully honoured the debts incurred to people in the commercial world and people who have printed or prepared material on the understanding that a bona fide Liberal candidate had sought to have that material produced. 
The letter of  Senator Chipp  's Assistant Private Secretary clearly indicates that  Mr Baker  was recognised as an Australian Democrat candidate. I believe there is a moral obligation on the Australian Democrats, as a political organisation and as a political party, to honour a debt incurred in terms of material prepared not only for the promotion of  Mr Baker  as a candidate but for the promotion of  Senator Mason,  who gathered together the 6.6 per cent of the votes that he received in the electorate of Paterson, in amassing the total of votes which brought him, as an Australian Democrat, into this Senate. My constituents, who run the Regency Press as a small private concern, accepted the account of  Mr Baker;  they printed the material in good faith, in the belief that the Australian Democrat candidate would honour this account. Frankly, they cannot afford to carry a debt of $ 1 ,300, which it appears that the Australian Democrats are not prepared to honour. It seems to me that, for a party which makes some play on and some statement about its high moral principles and its sense of moral responsibility, in terms of my constituents at the Regency Press there is no reason that they should be required to carry this $ 1 ,300 debt. 
Given the fact that the Australian Democrats as a party have not seen fit to honour a commitment or to assist my constituents to maintain a reasonable position in terms of electoral expenses incurred on their behalf, I use this occasion to make a public appeal to the Australian Democrats to understand that this debt was incurred in terms of the election of people to this place and to see that this account is promptly and properly settled with people who are entitled to receive payments for services rendered. 
-Has the Minister for Education seen reports of claims by the Federation of Australian University Staff Associations that the Budget this year represents a serious blow to research in universities because of the failure to provide substantial increases in funds for university research? Does the Minister regard that criticism as being well founded? 
-I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment whether he has seen two recent articles, one by Gerald B. Goeden entitled 'Is the Great Barrier Reef being Overfished' which appeared in  Australian Fisheries  in September 1979, and the second by Dick Coates entitled 'Taiwan's Poachers may destroy the Barrier Reef which appears in the current issue of the  Bulletin?  Do both these articles suggest that the Great Barrier Reef is, in fact, not being adequately protected and is being endangered by the improper exploitation of its living natural resources? What steps is the Government either currently undertaking or contemplating to ensure that adequate protection is given to this unique part of Australia's national heritage? 
I wish to address some remarks this evening to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment entitled Industrial Research and Development in Australia. I start by offering my congratulations to the Committee for what I regard as one of the most significant and important reports to come before the Senate in a lengthy period. I have been of the view for a long time that the question of future social and economic growth in Australia depends almost entirely upon making the correct decisions on matters of fundamental research and development. I wish to begin by drawing attention to what I regard as the primary recommendations and conclusions of the report of the Committee of which  Senator Jessop  was  chairman.  At pages 15 and 16 the following three conclusions will be found: 
.  Many today see the need for a national science and technology policy which places emphasis on the application of science through technology. 
At present no clear national policy for science and technology exists in Australia. In consequence there can be little coherence, sense of purpopse or direction in government support for IR&amp;D. 
It is vital that national policies for science and technology be developed as a matter of urgency to help reverse the decline in R &amp; D. 
It is my intention this evening to speak about the matter of national science policy and the conclusions and recommendations of the report brought down by the Committee.  Senator Jessop,  in a speech delivered to the Australian Industrial Research Group and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation on 18 September 1979 made a number of perceptive comments not only on his own report but also on the state of science and technology in Australia in general. He said: 
Many parliamentarians approach science and technology as they would a strange dog which is simultaneously showing its teeth and wagging its tail. They don 't know which end of the animal to believe! 
He went on, in speaking of the conclusions that the Committee had reached, to say: 
At present no clear national policy for science and technology exists in this country. In consequence there can be little coherence, sense or purpose or direction in Government support Tor industrial research and development. Yet a sense of direction and national purpose is desperately needed. 
In order to indicate the magnitude of the problem to which his Committee was addressing its mind, he wenton: 
Between 1973-74 and 1976-77 Australian effort in terms of manpower engaged in research and development declined by 40 per cent. Indications are that the decline has continued since 1976-77. Between the same years gross expenditure on research and development in Australia, as a percentage of the gross domestic product fell from 1.29 per cent to 0.97 per cent, a reduction of 25 per cent. No other member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has shown so great a decline. 
That decline is the subject to which I wish to turn my attention this evening, and on which I would offer some warnings which I hope will not be taken as warnings of impending doom or disaster but rather of the need for substantial changes in government thinking and policy and in the thinking and policy pursued by certain elements of the private sector in this country. I turn first to the question of support for research and development as evidenced in the 1979-80 Budget. Honourable senators will know that in certain areas there has been a marked increase in the levels of government funding for research and development. For instance, industrial research and development-assisted project grants are expected to rise from $16,750,000 to $22,950,000 in the next year and industrial research and development-assisted grants for public interest projects are to rise from $2.25m to $4.0m in the coming year. Similarly, in the related field of energy research, development and demonstration programs, the rise will be from $4m last year to $9,057,000 next year. These are major increases of a quite important nature in expenditure but they tend to distract us from the fact that in terms of funding other areas of research and development have not fared so well in this Budget. For instance, funding for research and development in education is to be cut from $1,040,000 to $1,025,000 this year. Funding for transport research is to be cut from $680,000 to $440,000. 
One could equally draw attention to the fact that the increases that have taken place in the Budget for the National Health and Medical Research Council in the next year have been extremely small, that is, from $ 12.8m to only $14m, an increase in real terms of about half of one per cent. By contrast, funding for the Australian Research Grants Committee has declined in real terms by about 3.6 per cent. It is important to make it quite clear that although there have been substantial increases in allocations to the Department of Productivity, the Department of National Development and, as well, to such groups as the Australian Institute of Marine Science, CSIRO and the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, in a number of other areas net losses- at an extremely dangerous and disturbing level- in government funding for research in this country have occurred. 
There has been a general decline over a number of years in the whole attitude to research and development in Australia. The gross figures for research and development expenditure in Australia, when compared with those of other countries, are a little misleading. In our statistics, unlike the Americans and some others, we specifically exclude the amount allocated to research and development for defence. Nevertheless, I do not believe that we are doing particularly well in world terms. In a most perceptive article by C. L. Rubenstein entitled 'Changes in Australian Science and Technology Policies: From Ends to Means', which appeared in the Australian Journal of Public Administration in September 1978, the following observation was made: 
Australia's R and D expenditure is not artifically inflated by large defence commitments, as is frequently the case elsewhere, yet still amounted to 1.3 per cent of GDP in 1973-74 ... a figure above the OECD level in absolute terms or on a per capita basis. 
But as I indicated, in quoting from the speech that  Senator Jessop  made earlier this year, and as the Committee's report indicated, that impressive figure of 1.3 per cent in the course of about five years has declined by 25 per cent to a figure of 0.97 per cent. That is a matter of considerable concern for Australia in general. There is no doubt that there is a general malaise throughout the developed world about investment in industrial research and development. In an article in the  New Scientist  of 9 August 1979 the following comment was made: 
Industrial research and development in the member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development- the world's rich western nations- has stagnated for the past decade. 
That is an extemely disturbing thing to learn when one considers that the activities and the well being of the rest of the world are very largely dependent upon the growth of research and development and production in those extremely rich nations that constitute the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 
-I do not believe that we have reached a plateau. I believe that we have reached a stage at which governments have lost confidence in the ability of investment in research and development to make real social and economic process. I think that it is necessary for us parliamentarians and for people in the community to continue to reassert the belief that investment in fundamental research has long term benefits not only for the nation in which it is undertaken but also for the larger world community. It is interesting to note that in countries such as France investment in research and development has been a matter of political debate. In the  New Scientist  of I March 1973, in an article by Paris correspondent Henry Kahn, the French elections were described in the following fashion: 
All parties contesting the French election, which takes place on 4 and 1 1 March, consider science and technology to be the bread of life and the foundation of progress- at least, in their public utterances. Three major groups are involved in the fight for power in the National Assembly, and each comprises a variety of different parties with individual ideas on the role of R &amp; D. 
The article went on to indicate that this could be turned into some degree of political reality. By the time the  New Scientist  correspondent was reporting on 9 August 1979 he was able to write: 
France is to embark on a national research and development programme which should boost the nation's R&amp;D spending by almost 1000 million a year. The aim is to bring research spending by France's public and private sectors up to the levels of the United States, the German Federal Republic, the United Kingdom and Japan. All of these are spending about 2.2 per cent of their gross domestic product (GDP)- 
We should compare that with the 0.97 per cent in Australia-  while in recent years, France has devoted only around 1.8 per cent  of GDP  to research. 
It is important to understand that one of the reasons that the British economy appears to have gone into a state of decline is that the British in recent years have not been making their contribution to industrial research and development. Again, in the  New Scientist,  it was reported that between 1964 and 1975 the percentage of the country's gross domestic product devoted to research and development fell from 2.23 per cent to 2.09 per cent. One can see in the failure and the staggering of the British economy in that period a direct reflection of the failure of the British to involve themselves in the important task of investing in research and development. In recent years the British have woken up to themselves. The experience of the British in general in terms of their attempt to arrest this decline made the important guidelines for the Australian Government to follow. 
Great Britain has decided to give a substantial role in fostering and supporting research and development to a body called the National Research and Development Corporation, which operates within the framework of its science and technology policy- indeed it has operated for 25 years- and is now making an extremely healthy profit. That is an indication to Australia of the extent to which co-operation between government and private sector can make a substantial contribution to reversing the decline of research and development in this country which, I believe, certainly needs to be reversed. The United States has dealt with much the same problem. There is a body in the US called the National Science Foundation. I quote from an article by Philip Handler in the journal  Science  in May 1979: 
Its appropriation has grown almost 40-fold over the last 25 years, and the President's budget request for fiscal year 1980, with its total of about $32.5 billion for research and development. Today, the NSF is clearly the lead federal agency for support of such areas as systemic biology, astronomy, chemistry, solid-state physics, environmental science, and various social sciences. It is second only to the NIH in total funding of research at universities. 
I want to make the point quite clearly that the use of bodies such as the British NRDC and the United States NSF has led to a situation in which the government has been able to make substantial investment in the private sector and has been able to make substantial progress in reversing the trends that have taken place in the decline in research and development expenditure in those countries. The Government is not unaware of the effectiveness of the United Kingdom National Research and Development Corporation because only this month it received a report from a most outstanding Australian academic, Professor Ron Johnston, of the Department of History and Philosophy of Science at the University of Wollongong, making absolutely clear to the Government the extent to which co-operation between the Government and the private sector can be a major factor in reversing this lamentable trend. For instance, if one were to look at a series of strategies which relate to the reversion of this decline in support of research and development, one would do well to look in a magazine called  Technology Review  which in May 1979 published an article by J. Herbert Hollomon entitled: 'Government and the Innovation Process' in which Hollomon analyses a variety of attitudes that have been taken towards government promotion of research and development. He  classifies Japan as pursuing a policy where technology is identified with growth. He says: 
The distinguishing feature of Japanese technology policy has been its total and complete identification with economic growth policies . . . 
British government policy has focused heavily on supporting research and development in basic fields. This orientation has led the British to make major contributions to science and technology- in particular to areas of 'big science' such as defense, nuclear energy, and space. But this emphasis has been heavily on the supply side, with only modest attention given to market demand for the products of research and to the problems of commercialising promising new technologies. 
He classifies the approach in France as one of maintaining independence. He says: 
French science and technology policy has been characterised by heavy government support of civilian technology, notably in such high-technology fields as computers, aircraft, and nuclear energy. It is consistent with the highly centralised administrative structure of the government, characterised by strong direction and control and emphasis on long-range planning. 
Most technology policy has been dictated by France's political commitment to industrial and technological independence. 
I am not sufficiently hidebound by any ideological considerations to find realistic long term planning anything which is in the slightest way objectionable. He goes on to describe the West German situation as being characterised by support in the private sector. He says: 
In contrast to France, Germany relies more on market forces and industry-government-university cooperation than on government regulation and control to foster innovation. Government assistance is normally granted only if market strength seems to assure ultimate success; hence the German government's direct role in developing such major technologies as electronics and computers, much as in the U.K.. and France. 
Most German aid, however, seeks to influence the "climate" for innovation through indirect measures. The principal thrust of German policy is to reduce the costs of research and development to private firms and to encourage large, technically-based corporations in advanced areas. 
We have available to the Australian Government a variety and range of experience which the Government would do particularly well to study in the development of a uniquely Australian science and technology policy. The Australian Science and Technology Council, which has come to occupy a fundamental and central role in the planning of technology and science in Australia, has produced two reports which deal centrally with the question of the basic funding of research. In a report which bears the tide 'The Direct Funding of Basic Research', ASTEC has made a series of 1 1 policy recommendations to the Government which start from the premise, firstly: 
The financial support for research in the Institute of Advanced Studies in the Australian National University be maintained at adequate level. 
It goes on to make recommendations about the National Health and Medical Research Council, the Australian Research Grants Committee, the distribution of university funds, the central role that ASTEC has to play and the nature of the reports of the Universities Commission and various other groups and organisations which have made recommendations to the Government in this field. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the 1 1 recommendations made by the Australian Science and Technology Council report directing 'The Direct Funding of Basic Research'. 
Leave granted. 77te  document read as follows- 
Recommendation 1 
That financial support for research in the Institute of Advanced Studies in the Australian National University be maintained at an adequate level. 
Recommendation 2 
That the present practice whereby research in universities is supported by funds through the Tertiary Education Commission and selected projects are directly funded by ARGC, NH &amp; MRC and through other advisory and funding bodies, be continued. 
Recommendation 3 
That universities re-examine their procedures for the distribution of research funds derived from the Recurrent grants and the Special Research Grants with a view to giving greater support to their best research workers and, when appropriate, to group and team efforts. 
Recommendation 4 
That ARGC be continued as a funding body for the support of the most outstanding research projects and promising research workers in universities and in other non-government laboratories and institutions. 
Recommendation S 
That requests for Commonwealth funds for items of scientific equipment or facilities costing between $0. IS million and $ 1 .0 million from investigators in universities and in colleges of advanced education, or combined teams of investigators from these institutions and government laboratories or organisations, in fields of interest other than the medical and dental sciences, be assessed by the ARGC, placed in order of priority and submitted to the Minister for Science with supporting documentation; and that, if such requests are approved, the Government allocate additional funds through an appropriate agency specifically for the procurement of such facilities. (Recommendation 7 in 'Science and Technology in Australia 1977-78', Volume 1A). 
Recommendation 6 
That requests for Commonwealth funds for scientific equipment or facilities costing between $0.15 million and $1.0 million in the medical and dental sciences be assessed by the National Health and Medical Research Council, placed in order of priority and submitted to the Minister for Health with supporting documentation; and that, if such requests are approved, the Government allocate funds to the National Health and Medical Research Council specifically 
Tor the procurement of such facilities. (Recommendation 18 in 'Science and Technology in Australia 1977-78', Volume 1a). 
Recommendation 7 
That the funds available to the Australian Research Grants Committee and to the National Health and Medical Research Council for the support of research projects having exceptional merit and promise be steadily increased (in real terms) over the next five years; and that more emphasis be placed on the vigorous support of excellence. (Recommendation 9 in 'Science and Technology in Australia 1977-78'. Volume 1A). 
Recommendation 8 
That the case for more funds be developed by ARGC and NH &amp; MRC each year, in preparation for the Commonwealth budget, and that these bc forwarded to ASTEC for comment before they arc considered by the Government. 
Recommendation 9 
That the Category B research grants proposed by the Universities Commission in its Sixth Report (1975) be implemented as soon as possible and that ASTEC and other bodies such as the Australian Research Grants Committee and the National Health and Medical Research Council be consulted when the Centres of Concentration are being determined by the Tertiary Education Commission. (Recommendation 10 in 'Science and Technology in Australia 1977-78', Volume Ia). 
Recommendation 10 
That ARGC, NH &amp; MRC and the Tertiary Education Commission endeavour to identify fields of research which they judge to be in the national interest, and which need to be stimulated and developed, and forward comments to ASTEC. 
Recommendation 1 1 
That the Departments of Productivity and Science (now the Department of Science and the Environment) study the operations of the (UK) National Research Development Corporation and other similar bodies, in order to identify the detailed requirements and terms of reference for an Australian equivalent for consideration by the Government; and that following consideration of the above study, an NRDClike body be established in Australia, financed in the first instance by a government loan. (Recommendation 7 in 'Science and Technology in Australia 1977-78', Volume IA). 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  The second report of ASTEC which deals with this question is entitled 'Science and Technology in Australia 1 977-78: Summary and Recommendations'. It contains three basic recommendations. Recommendation 2 states: 
That the Project Grants Scheme under the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act 1976 be continued and expanded, and that the maximum grant without Ministerial approval be increased to $500,000. 
That grants under the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act 1976 be tax-free; or alternatively the contribution from the Project Grants Scheme be increased to 50 per cent of project expenditure. 
Recommendation 3**** 
That all appropriate government departments and agencies be required to give greater attention to the placement of R&amp;D contracts with industry such that, within the three-year forward estimates period, there is a substantial increase in government-funded R&amp;D being performed by industry; and that accordingly these departments and agencies be asked to prepare a program for R&amp;D contracts with industry. 
Recommendation 9**** 
That the funds available to the Australian Research Grants Committee and to the National Health and Medical Research Council for the support of research projects having exceptional merit and promise be steadily increased ( in real terms) over the next five years; and that more emphasis bc placed on the vigorous support of excellence. 
If the Government is prepared to establish ASTEC and is prepared to receive reports from ASTEC I believe that the very last thing it ought to be doing is to ignore the recommendations that ASTEC is making about substantial increases in payments to the ARGC and the NH and MRC which clearly it has not yet picked up in its annual budget. Clearly, in view of the recommendations and the report that it has from ASTEC, it fails to pick up those ASTEC recommendations at its own cost and, more particularly, at the nation's long term cost. I do not believe that the Budget as it is shaped for next year should be shaped without a greater degree of sensitivity to the recommendations from ASTEC that were given in this year's Budget. I appreciate that much of this year's Budget would have been decided upon and moneys committed before the ASTEC report was in the hands of the Government. But the Government will not be able to ignore the ASTEC reports in the framing of next year's Budget unless it is prepared to put in jeopardy the social and economic progress that Australia as a nation is capable of making. 
I have said on previous occasions that I regard the development of a national science and technology policy as one of the critical things with which this Government has to come to grips. Fundamental research is the sort of research which is absolutely necessary. The ASTEC report which I previously quoted on the direct funding of basic research had this to say about the benefits of funding of basic research: 
The history of technological innovation abounds with examples of practical application and commercial developments which derived fairly directly from basic research. Most disciplines of science can offer examples of basic research which subsequently turned out to be useful. In many cases this happened even when the scientists concerned could not envisage any useful application, as Rutherford failed to see for atomic energy. 
The funding of basic research is absolutely critical. I appreciate the enormous expansion that this Government has made in the funds available to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation since it has been in office, an expansion of about 50 per cent, but by and large the research of the CSIRO is tuned to the solving of immediate problems. It is essentially a practical organisation oriented towards the solving of problems. One only has to look at its work in Sirotherm and all of the other innovations. One only has to look at its effective grappling  with the problem of aphid resistant lucerne. Nevertheless, decisions about whether or not an investment will be made at the Australian National University or at Macquarie University in a matter like a linear accelerator for research into high energy physics are decisions which the Government has to make and, I believe, has to make fairly promptly. 
Few countries in the world find that their national research and development programs are as totally dependent or as heavily dependent upon government support as is the case in Australia. That is one of the unique things about Australia. It has been indicated, for instance, that at the time of the Organisation for the Economic Co-operation and Development examiners report in 1974 the government sector provided 63 per cent of the funds available for research and development in Australia. Since then the situation has deteriorated with the government sector now providing 77 per cent of all the funds available for research and development in this country. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  two tables which appear in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment. One relates to gross expenditure on research and development by source of funds, which is to be found on page 6 1 of the report of  Senator Jessop  's Committee. The other table deals with the ratio of business enterprise research and development to government research and development in OECD countries for 1973 and 1975, which is to be found on page 84 of the same report. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="082232197910111_73_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="082232197910111_73_2.jpg"></graphic>

-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  As I have already mentioned, the fact that this is growing in the United Kingdom and that there are consequent failures on the part of the United Kingdom economy to adapt ought to be salutory lessons. 
It should not be believed that the Government is wholly responsible for this. On page 18 of the report of  Senator Jessop  's Committee it is stated: 
Some time during the last 10 years Australian industry lost its entrepreneurial drive. 
That undoubtedly is true and undoubtedly it is a tragedy. When one looks at the sorts of losses that have occurred in Australia because of failure to invest in innovations and developments in Australia one can look at the Nashua copier, for instance. It was pioneered in this country and sales for 1978 are expected to reach $ 1,000m. Yet it was unable to get a sufficient degree of support from Australian industry to go foward. One only has to look, for instance, at the editorials in the weekend  Australian  of 1 and 2 September of this year to indicate the extent to which investment by Australian companies in Australian innovations is lacking. One can look at the Australian of 2 October 1979 to see the innovation of  Mr Bob  Lloyd and  Mr Max  Turner which was a breakthrough in developing a process which could substitute refined coal for oil and gas as an economic and clean fuel for electricity generation. These two Australian entrepreneurs have been sent to the American market to find funds because there were not Australians with sufficient perception to invest in this Australian invention. One almost despairs of the ability of Australia to wake up to itself. I would not say that that is absolutely true by any means. 
J. Clark, in an article entitled 'Innovation in Australian High Technology Industries: Two Case Studies', which appeared in the Australian Economic Papers' in June 1979, pointed to the skills of two Australian companies- the Role Company of Australia Pty Ltd and Repco- in terms of investing and developing particular skills and particular innovations in Australia. I had the pleasure a couple of months ago of visiting the city of Albury to look at the developments of a firm by the name of Battenfield which put out a publication entitled ' Battenfield 's Research and Development- A Convincing Investment'. Australian companies are prepared to take up this challenge, but there are not sufficient of them. I believe that they are not receiving sufficient incentive tax relief and guidance from the Australian Government to make this contribution. 
One could look, for instance, at the Presidential Address to the 49th Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science Congress delivered by  Dr K.  L. Sutherland entitled 'Science and Technology- Old Mutton or Spring Lamb' to indicate the extent to which comparable small countries, such as Norway and Israel, have made enormous strides in this regard.  Dr Sutherland's  address talks about the Royal Norwegian Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, which has greatly assisted industry to develop in that country. He went on to discuss the position in Israel and reported, for instance, that Israel now has exports of $42 5 m due to local innovations- Israeli innovations- now being exported worldwide. One could look at the suggestions from that most distinguished Australian,  Sir Mark  Oliphant in his Charles Joseph La Trobe Memorial Lecture entitled 'Science, Technology and Society' in which he proposes a framework in which Australian research and development can take place or, to go back to 1971, to a United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation publication by Jacques Spaey, Jacques Deny Jean Ladriere and others entitled 'Science for Development: An Essay on the Origin and Organisation of National Science Policies '. 
One thing that is absolutely lacking in this country, in my belief, is a coherent and developed Australian national science policy. Let us look at the position in the Commonwealth departments. Which Commonwealth departments are doing research and development? By my estimation, the only departments which do not appear to have some research and development work going on are the Department of Finance, the Department of Transport and the Department of Veterans' Affairs. In the Department of Aboriginal Affairs there is the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies; in the Department of Administrative Services there is a commission of inquiry into drugs; the Attorney-General's Department conducts criminology research and family studies; the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs has the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence; the Department of the Capital Territory has a nature conservation committee; the Department of Defence has a defence science and technology organisation; the Department of Education has the Curriculum Development Centre and the Education Research and Development Committee; the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs has the National Training Council; the Department of Foreign Affairs has all of our international agreements; the Department of Health has the National Health and Medical Research Council, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, the National Acoustics Laboratories, and the Australian Dental Standards Laboratory, et cetera; the Department of Home Affairs has the National Library of Australia; the Department of Housing and Construction has the Australian Housing Research Council; the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has the population study; the Department of Industrial Relations has the Trade Union Training Authority; the Department of Industry and Commerce has the Australian Manufacturing Council; the Department of National Development has the Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the Water Resources Council; the Postal and Telecommunications 
Department has the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia); the Department of Primary Industry has the Bureau of Animal Health, the Commonwealth Council for Rural Research and Extension and the Australian Wine Research Institute; the Prime Minister's Department has the Australian Science and Technology Council; the Department of Productivity has the industrial research and development bodies; the Department of Science and the Environment has a whole string of them; the Department of Social Security has the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped and the Social Welfare Policy Secretariat; the Department of Trade and Resources has the Uranium Advisory Council; and Treasury has the Bureau of Statistics. 
I appreciate that. The point I am making is that all of these bodies exist and produce reports, but nobody at a national level is attempting to co-ordinate what they are saying in order to promote it, to evaluate it, to finance it, to make practical application out of it and, if necessary, to sell it. 
If one looks through the report of  Senator Rae's  committee on the statutory bodies in this field one finds the following bodies listed: The Anglo-Australian Telescope Board, Applied Ecology Pty Ltd, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, the Bureau of Statistics, the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Board, the Institute of Aboriginal Studies, the Institute of Anatomy, the Institute of Criminology, the Institute of Marine Science, the Australian Maritime College, the Australian Meat Research Committee, the Australian National University, the Australian Postal Commission, the Telecommunications Commission, the Australian Tobacco Board, the Trade Union Training Authority, the Australian Wine Board, the Australian 
Wool Testing Authority, the Bureau of Meteorology, the Canberra College of Advanced Education, the Australian Chicken Meat Research Committee, the Commonwealth Practitioners Board, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission, the Criminology Research Council, the Curriculum Development Centre, the Environment Protection Commissioner, the Fishing Industry Research Committee, the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, the Institute of Family Studies, the Medical Research Endowment Fund, the Metric Conversion Board, the National Health Act Committee, the National Health and Medical Research Council, the Australian National Library, the National Parks and Wildlife Service, the National Standards Commission, the National Television Advisory Committee, the Oilseeds Research Committee, the Pig Industry Research Committee, the River Murray Commission, the Schools Commission, the Supervising Scientist for the Alligators Rivers Region, the Tertiary Education Commission, the Therapeutic Goods Committee, the Whaling Inspector and the Wheat Industry Research Council. One could add others to that list. Who is preparing the overall national plan, the national coordination, of these things? 
Australia, in my view, is very poor in terms of the percentage it provides per capita for research. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  tables from pages 77 and 85 of the report of the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment on gross expenditure on research and development on a per capita basis and as a percentage of the gross domestic product in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development member countries since 1 973. 
Leave ganted 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="082232197910111_75_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="082232197910111_76_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="082232197910111_76_5.jpg"></graphic>

As a comparison I draw attention to the extremely low levels of funding for research and investment through the National Health and Medical Research Council and seek similarly to incorporate in  Hansard  a table taken from the 1977 report of the National 

<graphic href="082232197910111_76_6.jpg"></graphic>

Health and Medical Research Council on comparative funding for medical research in selected countries. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

-The need to develop a full and complete science policy in this country has been drawn to the attention of Australian governments over a long period. In 1963, a report from the OECD entitled 'Science and the Policies of Governments' made it absolutely clear to the Australian governments, as to others that there was this need. The report states: 
A nation needs a comprehensive and consistent policy for the support and advancement of science, because there are more opportunities to advance science and technology than there are resources available to exploit them all. 
In 1974, 11 years later, the OECD examiners came to this country and reported: 
As there is no Australian economic plan, it is not surprising that there has been little attempt to establish a coherent science policy, or even a research policy, although the need for this now seems to be fairly generally recognised. 
That was commented upon by the then Minister for Science in March 1974, in a publication entitled 'Towards an Australian Science Council', in which the Minister said: 
Australia's scientists have made notable contributions in the past, not only to the advancement and welfare of their own country, but also to the international pool of shared scientific knowledge which is available for the benefit of all peoples. 
The present-day complexities of science, superimposed on, and interacting with those of human society call, however, for a more coherent national approach in the future to the development and utilisation of Australian science than has characterised the past. 
But we still do not have that. The Coombs Royal Commission, in a report which was prepared in 1975, adopted a somewhat different policy. The Coombs Commission, in its special paper entitled 'Towards Diversity and Adaptability', indicated its belief that there should not be a Ministry of Science. I am glad to see that the Government has taken no notice of the recommendations of the Coombs Commission in that regard. An important step was that in 1 975 the coalition parties put forward a science and technology policy- in my view it was a very good policy- that, I regret to say, this Goverment has not taken to heart and acted upon. I regret to say that it is a policy this Government has not taken to heart and has not acted upon. For instance, this is what we undertook in 1975: 
We will establish a National Information Office to monitor, store and disseminate scientific information and technical data. The office will be encouraged to develop necessary and ancillary services and will publish regular catalogue material. 
We said also: 
We will investigate the need to establish an independent authority to evaluate and assess new scientific and technological processes, products and development. The Authority will report to the Minister and the Government could refer matters for investigation. 
We went on to say: 
As recommended by the OECD Examiners Report we will present to Parliament an annual Science Statement clearly indicating trends in research and development in terms of overall priorities. 
There is no independent technology assessment authority. There is no national information office. There have been no annual science reports to this Parliament. Those were the policies upon which this Government was elected and which it has an obligation at least to attempt to fulfil. We have elevated ASTEC to a position of extraordinary importance. I ask honourable senators to look at the reports that have come to us. A report entitled 'The Next Generation of Australian Telescopes' contains significant recommendations. The Minister for Science and the Environment and I have spent time at Siding Springs and know of the importance of astronomical and astrophysical research in this country. 
It is a magnificent place. The Government deserves full credit for the limited amount of support it is giving this research at the moment. I refer also to a report on the 'Immediate Issues of Marine Sciences and Technology in Australia ', on which there has not yet been a full scale investigation and to the ASTEC report on the future of the Bureau of Mineral Resources on which we will wait for activity to be undertaken. I would not say that this is an indication that the policies adopted by the Liberal and National Country Party governments have been failures. The policies promoted by the Australian Labor Party in government have been of a quite different nature. I would not make my own comment but rather rely again on Rubenstein's article from the  Australian Journal of Public Administration  which characterises them in these words: 
Labor preferences for a 'scientist dominated Council' reflected a naive 'leave it to the expert' syndrome and an ignorance of the tendency for such councils elsewhereparticularly in the United Kingdom and Canada- to undermine the scientific sophistication and awareness of potential users, to concentrate on supply rather than demand problems, and to obfuscate the termination of priorities and value choices that necessarily must be made. 
I believe that there is a need for a development of a dialogue across this chamber, between this chamber and people outside the Parliament and between the Government and people outside the Parliament to find a more useful and a more rational approach to the development of science policy in this country. It is important that we should appreciate, for instance, the rate of change that takes place in science and technology. A computer which could closely replicate the functions of the average human brain when first designed, would in terms of physical size, would have been as large as the city of London. With various other micro-processors, electronic devices and transistors it was reduced to the size of a large room. It was progressively reduced to the size of a large desk. Today it is portable. It can be picked up and moved around. One only has to look at the cost to realize the changes made. This is one of the few areas in which costs have come down almost in exponential terms. Carl Sagan writing in his book  The Dragons of Eden  said: 
Consider, for example, the development of small, pocket computers. I have in my laboratory a desk-sized computer purchased with a research grant in the late 1960s for $4,900. I also have another product of the same manufacturer, a computer that fits into the palm of my hand which was purchased in 1975. The new computer does everything that the old computer did, including programming capability and several addressable memories. But it costs $145, and is getting cheaper at a breathtaking rate. 
In the last 1 5 years a computer the size of a large desk has been reduced so that it fits in the palm of the hand. Its cost also has been reduced from $4,900 to $ 145. One has to appreciate the extent to which changes in medical technology are changing the face of society in general. One has to appreciate the extent to which changes in technology are changing the pattern of the Australian work force, changing the nature of the work and changing the future of work. One has to appreciate the almost limitless opportunities of developments in space, space technology communication growth and development and communication technology. 
We have unique and particular problems to address in Australia. They can be addressed by Australian scientists like Eccles, Burnet or Nossal who in any number of fields have shown themselves to be the equal of scientists anywhere in the world. The contribution of Australina scientists to the world scientific community is a proud and impressive one but it has not been mightily helped by the policies which governments have pursued since the end of the last war. 
It is important to understand, however, that this matter is not devoid of intellectual and ideological considerations. Science has been under assault for many hundreds and, indeed, thousands of years. Let me take honourable senators back to the writings of Plato. Many people know that the use of calculators by young people throughout the community is criticised today. People say that they use calculators, they cannot do simple arithmetic they cannot write down and solve their equations on a piece of paper. They are all dependant on little machines. There is nothing new about that. Let me read what Plato had to say in his dialogue the  Phaedrus.  He records a discussion about the invention of writing, as he sees it, between the Egyptian god Thoth, the god of writing, and the Egyptian god Ammon. Ammon says: 
This discovery of yours will create forgetfulness in the learners' souls, because they will not use their memories; they will trust to the external written characters and not remember of themselves. The specific which you have discovered is an aid not to memory, but to reminiscence, and you give your disciples not truth, but only the semblance of truth; they will be hearers of many things and will have learned nothing; they will appear to be omniscient and will generally know nothing; they will be tiresome company, having the show of wisdom without its reality. 
The criticism of the use of science and technology is that old. It was criticised perceptively by Karl Marx in a number of his writings. If one looks at his works 'Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts', 'Contributions to the Critique of Political Economy', 'Anti-Duhring' and the remarkable work 'The Poverty of Philosophy' one will see that there is a substantial intellectual criticism of the use of science and technology. His latter day disciple Marcuse, writing in 1972 said this: 
The technical apparatus of production and distribution (with an increasing sector of automation) functions, not as the sum total of mere instruments which can be isolated from their social and political effects, but rather as a system which determines a priori the product of the apparatus as well as the operations of services and extending it. In this society, the productive apparatus tends to become totalitarian to the extent to which it determines not only the socially needed occupations, skills and attitudes, but also individual needs and aspirations. It thus 'obliterates the opposition between the private and public existence, between individual and social needs. 
In constructing a national science policy one should be aware of those intellectual critiques including the critiques that have been made by the eminent Australian philosopher, John Passmore, who writes about what he calls the revolt against science and the attitudes put by the late remarkable  Dr Jacob  Bronowski in talking about the need to 'disestablish science' and to separate science and technology from the processes and the operation of, and financial dependence upon, the Government. We must realise that even an Australian Government Minister,  Mr Morrison,  in a publication entitled  Science and Technology in the Service of Society  in January 1 975 was able to write: 
Although science and technology have brought countless benefits to our society, the implications of scientific programs have recently come under increasing scrutiny and criticism. The growth of public disenchantment with the role of science and technology is the result of several factors, including the military applications of scientific discoveries, a questioning of the true value of high-cost technology such as space exploration, and the impact of science and technology on the environment. 
Unless, as Einstein demanded, we are prepared to come to grips with those intellectual problems about the development of science all else will be in vain. We can come to grips with them. The outstanding philosopher,  Sir Karl  Popper, has made enormous strides in the intellectual development which tries to marry the human spirit with a concern for science and technology and has done so in a most admirable sense. I do not know how many honourable senators are familiar in any way with the writings of  Sir Karl  Popper, but if we are to come to grips with these problems we ought to come to grips with the intellectual arguments that lie behind them. For instance, we need public participation and accountability in science policy. It is not good enough for Professor Birch to prepare a report on the CSIRO in which he says that one of the things that should be in the CSIRO Act is a comment that the executive of CSIRO should appropriately delegate other functions so that it can give prime consideration to 'Broad questions of policy (scientific, technological, industrial, economic, social) required to provide effective scientific and technical directions for the whole organisation' and then find that when the Government brings in a Bill to reform CSIRO which takes up all those points except the social point, as if the social consequences of CSIRO or of anybody else's high level technology was irrelevant. We should look at the debate taking place at the moment because Professor Max Charlesworth in Melbourne has produced a report calling for an end to recombatant DNA research in this country along the lines of the disastrous attempt of the community in Cambridge, Massachusetts, to muzzle the research that was going on at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. At the moment there is no response to the propositions- I believe the unreasonable propositions- that Professor Charlesworth has put forward. There is a general lack of debate in the community of a rational nature about atomic energy, what it means, how safe it is, what its prospects are and whether it is worthwhile as part of the intellectual debate about science policy in this country. 
We have seen the appalling reaction to the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development which took place in August in Vienna. The Australian delegation to that Conference prepared a magnificent report. It was the best report submitted to that United Nations Conference. It has not been debated in this Parliament. It has not been looked at in this Parliament. If one bothers to get the minutes from the United Nations Conference they will show just what a contribution Australia made. This Parliament has no idea whether Australia was even represented there, let alone whether it made a contribution, because we are not told. Science policy does not concern this Parliament. Scientific issues do not concern this Parliament. If we look at the debate taking place within the universities about the role of" the universities, the integration between that sector and the government sector, one sees the work that Ron Johnston is doing at the University of Wollongong, but nobody here knows anything about that. Yet these reports go through to the Government. They go through to ASTEC. They go through to the Department of Productivity. Yet nobody in this Parliament sees them unless they go and get them from the author himself. We could look at the work that Professor Bruce Williams has done. As far back as 1972 when writing in the journal  Search,  Professor Williams was putting a university view on science policy for Australia. That was not developed and not debated in this chamber. It was not developed and not debated in the Parliament as a whole. 
The outside contacts with industry which ASTEC has emphasised, which CSIRO has emphasised, which the British National Research and Development Corporation has emphasised and which Professor Johnston has emphasised in a paper which he provided to ASTEC entitled 'Programs to Promote Interaction between Governments, Universities and Industries in the United Kingdom ' and which was delivered in September of this year to ASTECwhy do these things not come to the Parliament? 
Why do these things not come to members of parliament for constructive comment and for some degree of analysis? I have spoken before of the need for this Parliament to become intimately involved in the development and administration of science policy. Some years ago the Parliamentary Library, I think it was, prepared a brilliant paper entitled 'The Role of the Legislature in the Formulation of Science Policy- A Review and Analysis'. It contained important suggestions about science policy in this country and about the role of this chamber, this Parliament, in the development of science policy. Nobody has paid attention to that and it has never been raised for debate. 
The issues that one could look at in science policy are enormous. They include the petitions that come in here day by day about such things as whether we are to participate in some search for extra-terrestrial intelligence and the work that Carl Sagan has done in this field. People in this chamber by and large laugh them off as if they were in the next page of science fiction. They include the important questions which science is opening up to us: What is the meaning of the term 'life and death'? Where does one commence? Where does one end? What is this Parliament doing about it? It includes important political considerations: Is  1984  a reality? Is  Brave New World  a reality? Are we going to get to grips with the ethical problems raised by Aldous Huxley and George Orwell? 
What is the role that science is playing in the development of a religious consciousness? Is science going to prove the Turin Shroud to have been the shroud in which the body of Christ was wrapped? Does it matter? If it does prove it, what happens to the religious beliefs of thousands of millions of people around the world? What will we have? Are we to have a religious system based upon scientific proof which is able to eliminate Kierkegaard's leap of faith into religious belief? Are those not issues which are of some importance? The sociologist Seymour Martin Lipset has said: 
Transferring so much work to machines may produce something like Athenian Democracy; Athenians could be equal because they had the slaves to do the work for them. 
What are the political implications of a community which does not have to work for eight hours a day, 40 hours a week, or whatever it happens to be? There are real political implications in that. None of us is paying very much attention to those. The challenges will not be easy. Alfred North Whitehead wrote this:  lt is the business of the future to be dangerous . . . The major advances in civilisation are processes that all but wrecked the societies in which they occur. 
How are we placed to respond to the potential wrecking of Australian society in the 1 980s and 1990s by the increases and changes in science and technology? Who in this place is concerned? Who in the Government is concerned to make a contribution to this debate? I have detained the Senate for almost an hour on the subject. It is the first occasion, I think, on which one has been able to indulge in a widespread and wideranging debate about the issues in science and technology policy. I believe they are important. However, I believe that underneath them all there are ethical questions to be asked and ethical questions to be answered. Martin Luther King said: 
The means by which we live have outdistanced the ends for which we live. Our scientific power has outrun our spiritual power. We have guided missiles and misguided men. 
We must be prepared to understand that that challenge is not just a challenge about another passing problem. Employment and unemployment, the deficit, the rate of inflation, the problems of salinity in the Murray River- things of that nature- are problems which are essentially capable of solution by various policies adjusted from time to time, case by case, and which are capable of resolution in a political sense. The fundamental issues in science and technology policies are issues about the future of the Australian community. They are issues about the role of individual men and women in the Australian community. They are issues about Australia's role in the international community. They are issues about the survival of the human race as such. Frankly, if this Government and succeeding governments are not prepared to take a far more concrete look at the funding and organisation of science policy and research in this country and if the dialogue which can take place not between political parties but within political parties and then with political parties cooperating to form a national science policy is to be relegated to something that we get round to one Thursday night once in a year because there happens to be an odd space on the agenda of the Parliament to raise them, then we are going to take the most reprehensible course of action that any parliament can take. It would be a gross betrayal of the generations that will follow us and for whom we ought to be laying a better foundation and a better future. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
1 ) What was the cause of the extension of the period of dry-docking of the  Empress of Australia  beyond 24 July 1979. 
At what time did it appear that it was: (a) possible; (b) probable; and (c) certain, that the dry-docking period would have to be extended beyond the advertised recommencement date for trans-Bass Strait services. 
Were any members of the Australian National Line (ANL) organisation aware that it was possible that the drydocking period would extend beyond the advertised recommencement date prior to the vessel entering dry-dock; if so: (a) who were these officers; and (b) when did they become aware of the possibility. 
When was the Tasmanian Government Tourist Bureau advised of the possibility of extension of the drydocking period. 
What were the reasons for any delay between the possibility being known by officers of the ANL and it being communicated to the Tasmanian Government Tourist Bureau. 
What arrangements were made by the ANL to inform delayed passengers and persons consigning freight or vehicles of the delay on this occasion, and when were such arrangements made. 
What were the reasons for any delay between the time of knowledge of the extension of the period of dry-docking and the time arrangements were made for informing passengers and persons consigning freight or vehicles. 
How many passengers were involved in each sailing that was cancelled, and how many of them were pensioner co many of them were pensioner ncessions 
What arrangements were made, or have been made, to compensate passengers, particularly pensioners, who were travelling on concessions, for inconvenience caused by the Australian National Line's extension of dry-docking. 
-I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment whether he has seen a report prepared for the Australian Science and Technology Council in June 1979 by Professor Ron Johnston which deals with science indicators and their role in Australian science policy. Does the Minister agree with the often made claim that there is a lack of up-to-date statistical data in Australia since Project SCORE- the Survey and Comparison of Research and Expenditure- was published, which allows changes in various aspects of science and technology to be measured and monitored? Will the Government give active support to a program to develop a comprehensive set of science indicators in Australia along the lines suggested by Professor Johnston? 
-I might add that the third largest recipient of bounty under the Act is a firm called Wilke which is tied up in the same conglomerate organisation. It is amazing that Griffin Press, which in 1970 declined to print the  Little Red School Book,  is now in the business of being the largest printer of pornography in the country.  Mrs Adamson  again wrote to  Mr Bonython, Chairman  of Advertiser Newspapers Ltd, on 27 September 1 979, In that letter she drew attention to the fact that a number of books which are listed in her letter had already been deemed by the Commonwealth Attorney-General 's Department to breach regulation 4A of the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations and had already been rejected for bounty. She indicated that the entire list of their titles in the cataglogue shown as 'Future Releases' and published under the Orion catatogue label had been examined and that the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs had been advised that certain titles of publications, when published, would not be available to attract bounty.  Mr President,  I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a copy of that letter, which lists the titles of those books, printed by Griffin Press, which already have been refused bounty under the amendments which were made last May and those titles which appeared on the 'Future Releases' list of Griffin Press which will be refused payment if it is requested. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-I present the following petition from 1 80 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the very survival of mankind is at stake, with the stockpile of nuclear weapons able to kill every person on earth 24 times over and with conventional arms of increasing sophistication having enough destructive power to destroy most life on earth. 
Noting that, while millions starve, expenditure on the arms race is $1,000 million per day for the World, and $7m per day for Australia; and noting that the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) has listed 'peace and disarmament' as a theme for the International Year of the Child; and further noting that a reduction in expenditure on arms could contribute in both developed and developing countries to the eradication of hunger and disease and to the provision of more adequate housing, education, health services, economic security and social welfare for all people: 
In the interests of children in Australia and around the world, particularly in developing countries, and as a matter of highest priority during the International Year of the Child, 
We call upon the Australian Government to give political leadership both nationally and internationally in working towards- 
1 ) general and complete disarmament under effective international control; 
the establishment ofthe Pacific and Indian Oceans as nuclear-free zones; and 
3 ) the disbanding of all nuclear bases. and your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs whether he is aware of the fact that the annual returns under the Bounty (Books) Act recently tabled here show that over $lm was paid by way of bounty to Griffin Press Ltd, a subsidiary of the Adelaide  Advertiser  newspaper? Is the Griffin Press the largest publisher of pornography in Australia? Have several of its recent publications been denied bounty under the guidelines written into the Act when it was last amended? Does the Government believe that the payment of bounty on locally published pornography amounts to a proper use of taxpayers funds? 
On the adjournment this evening, I wish to pursue the matter that I raised by way of a question to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  at Question Time today dealing with the extent to which public funds are used in Australia to subsidise the printing and distribution of pornography. 
Honourable senators will be aware that a piece of legislation entitled the Bounty (Books) Act was first introduced in 1969, the objective of the Act being to provide financial assistance by way of bounty to the printing industry in Australia. It is perhaps worth noting that for almost as long as there have been books in the English language there has been some government support for printing. The first book actually printed in England and in the English language was printed by Caxton in 1477. In 1483, the Parliament of that year passed customs and excise legislation which imposed a tariff on books and imported printed items. The monarch of the day, the somewhat maligned King Richard III, wrote into the legislation that there was to be no customs on those bringing into this realm or selling by retail or otherwise any manner of books, written or imprinted ', and that there was to be no interference with 'the inhabiting within the realm of writers or illustrators, binders or printers of such books'. 
On 28 May 1969, the then Minister for Trade and Industry,  Mr McEwen,  made a ministerial statement in which he indicated that the Government was about to introduce a system of paying bounty to Australian book manufacturers, pending an inquiry and report by the then Tariff Board on the question of long-term measures to assist the industry. He said: 
This decision was taken because increasing numbers of books are being printed for Australian publishers in overseas countries. The loss of business to Australian printers has caused serious damage to the domestic book printing and binding industry. Employment has fallen significantly and the Government is convinced on the evidence that this trend will continue unless immediate action is taken. 
In September 1969, the Minister for the Interior,  Mr Nixon,  introduced the first book bounty Bill, which provided for a bounty to be paid up to a level of 25 per cent of the cost of manufacturing a book in Australia. We have amended that legislation on a number of occasions, although there has never been a substantial debate in the Parliament on the book bounty legislation. If one looks through  Hansard  year by year one will discover a great paucity of debate. For instance, the most significant changes made to the Bounty (Books) Act were made on the last day, indeed in the last hour of the last sitting day, of the last session, and were made without any debate taking place on them, despite the fact that they were of a fairly substantial nature. 
The trend in the printing industry in the period since the introduction of the book bounty legislation has been somewhat reversed. There are now over 2,000 premises registered under the Act. The industry employs some 15,000 persons and, in 1976-77, had a turnover of some $28m. The latest returns under the Act, which were presented to the Parliament only a few months ago, show that, in the year 1978-79, the Commonwealth paid out $12,463,000 in book bounty on 47,626,885 books. A number of those payments were of some significance. Some 20 companies received in excess of $100,000 by way of book bounty. Of those, the most outstanding were 
Griffin Press, which received $1,151,458, Wilke and Co. Ltd, which received $570,504, and John Sands Pty Ltd, which received $975,886. Of the $ 12m-odd paid out, the majority was for firms in New South Wales and Victoria, as one would expect, and the bounty was paid to some 739 individual producers and printers of books. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing expenditure under the Bounty (Books) Act for the years 1969-70 to 1978-79, a table showing the summary of returns by States for the period 1 July 1978 to 30 June 1979, and a table showing those payments in 1978-79 which were in excess of$100,000. 
Leave granted. 77ie  table read as follows- 

<graphic href="083232197910234_54_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197910234_54_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197910234_55_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. I am concerned to examine the problems that one faces in terms of where the bounty is being paid when, in my view, it should not be paid, and where it is not being paid and in fact should be paid. The whole Act came under quite close scrutiny by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report entitled 'Products of the Printing Industry' dated 31 July 1978. That report was significant because it indicated a number of things. Firstly, at page 14 the report stated: 
The Commission estimates that in the five years from 1972-73 this share - 
That is the Australian-produced share of the total market: was equal to or more than 60 per cent. 
That figure of locally-produced books accounting for 60 per cent of the market was further reinforced in the answer to a question on notice which appeared in Senate  Hansard  of 14 September 1978.  Senator Chaney  provided an answer on behalf of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  in response to a question asked by  Senator Button.  I seek leave to have the text of the question and answer incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

What statistics or information are available on the following matters: (a) the incidence of Australian printing reequirements being met by export of work, rather than by printing in Australia, over the past five years; (b) the incidence of importation of printed matter, especially textbooks, rather than the printing of such material in Australia, over the past five years; and (c) any protective measures which are available to help the Australian printing industry. 
and (b) Imports of books and other printed matter in the last five years have been as follows: 

<graphic href="083232197910234_55_1.jpg"></graphic>

Imports of textbooks are not separately recorded. The statistics quoted do not represent the degree of transference overseas of work which would otherwise be available to Australian Printers. For example, in regard to most books of overseas origin, the question of their being printed in Australia does not arise. The Industries Assistance Commission, in its draft Report on Products of the Printing Industry of April 1978, estimated that Australian book manufacturers held a little over 60 per cent of the market for books the printing of which could realistically be considered as potentially available to Australian producers. 
The printing of eligible books is currently assisted by a bounty of one-third of the cost of production. Other printed matter is assisted by duties of 25 or 35 per cent while some imported printed matter is accorded duty free entry. Levels of assistance to the printing industry are currently being reviewed by the Government following receipt of the final report from the Industries Assistance Commission. 
-I thank the Senate. The Industries Assistance Commission reported that new criteria for eligibility under the Act should be established and that bounties should be paid on the following products which were then ineligible for bounty: Books containing advertisements, if of the type which on importation would be admitted duty free; workshop manuals; service manuals and similar books relating to the use or maintenance of machinery; turf, stock and stud registers; statistical publications; Acts of Parliament; conciliation and arbitration awards, determinations and similar pronouncements when not printed by Commonwealth or State government printers. 
It further said that the eligibility for bounty should be restricted to those books where there was a run of more than 1,000 copies. This was an attempt to get over the fraud that had been going on previously whereby a manufacturer in Australia set the type for a book, printed one copy, had it bound, registered and applied for bounty, then sent one copy overseas, where it was photographed and printed off those photographic plates. The person in question then received the bounty at 30 per cent of the cost of the typesetting, which may have been a figure of some thousands of dollars. That practice was eliminated by the introduction of a minimum run. 
The Commission went on to propose that certain publications should be excluded from bounty, including publications produced by photocopying, scripts for the performing arts, commercial or industrial specifications, bills of quantity for buildings, plant or equipment, tender documents or building proposals, town planning reports, in-house training manuals, books produced by associations or organisations for their own internal use, and other books not published, that is, books not issued or made available to the public. 
Fortunately the Government did not pick up the IAC recommendation that excluded from bounty should be publications manufactured by schools, colleges and universities. One would have thought that that would have laid down some fairly strict criteria for the operation of the book bounty. The principal beneficiaries, it appeared, were to be those tertiary institutions which were able to publish, print and have their work recognised as being eligible for attracting subsidy under the Act. This has proved to be only partly the case. To illustrate that point I seek to have incorporated in  Hansard  a list of payments to educational institutions under the Bounty (Books) Act during 1978-79. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="083232197910234_56_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197910234_56_5.jpg"></graphic>

-The legislation then runs into a series of problems. I want to deal with those problems. They involve both the problem of pornography that I was previously talking about and the fact that publishers of a number of books on recommendations for drug use are also in receipt of bounty from the Government. The first area of concern is that the Act brings about its own problems by the definition of what constitutes a book. In the absence of  Senator Evans  I can say that the definition of the word 'book' in this Act would do great credit to him. The legislation states: 
 Book ' means a publication that is in book form. 
One would have thought that the simple definition 'a book is a book is a book' would have done just as well. Lest anybody thinks that that is a simple enough proposition, this matter, needless to say, has been decided in the High Court of Australia in the case of Ambascol Press v. Director, Posts and Telegraphs (New South Wales). The High Court was ruling on a publication which was described in the following terms: 
It is a paper-covered magazine consisting of printed and illustrated pages numbered up to 48, fastened together by staples. The staples not only hold the pages together; they hold the cover to the pages. The inside of the cover, both back and front, is used for printing part of the contents of the magazine. 

 Mr Justice Menzies, in delivering judgment and after describing the publication in those words, said: 
It is abundantly clear, merely from a reading of the regulations, that it is not necessary that a publication, to be registrable as a book, must be a book in any ordinary parlance or according to any statutory description. 
So one can see that the legislation says that a book is anything that a judge says is a book. This has led to the situation in which a number of very large firms in Australia are able to get their printing subsidised by the Government. For instance, during last year we paid $ 1 3,266 to Rothmans of Pall Mall for publications. 
The publications put out by Rothmans were put out by the Rothmans Sporting Foundation. We paid $24,000 to our own instrumentality, the Australian Broadcasting Commission. One is amazed to see that last year, obviously in order to help a struggling local concern, we paid bounty of $56,944 to the IBM company to help it deal with the problems of its printing bill. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing payments to major firms made under the Bounty (Books) Act for the last three years. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="083232197910234_57_6.jpg"></graphic>

The second thing I wish to say is that we also pay a large amount of subsidy to the political parties. The Australian Labor Party, the Liberal Party of Australia and the Communist Party all get their policy documents, their conference documents and their platforms subsidised under the Bounty (Books) Act. One might look at this as an example of how far we go already in subsidising political parties. But it is more important perhaps that a large number of books which deal with the use of marihuana are also eligible for bounty. Provided that they do not fall within the fairly loose definitions described in sections 5 and 7 of the Crimes Act, they attract a subsidy for their printing. For instance, the  Marihuana Cook Book,  which is freely available and which gives a number of recipes for cannabis brownies, for various marihuana drinks, for marihuana salad and things of that nature, is being printed in Australia with the Government's paying one-third of the cost of the printing under the Bounty (Books) Act. One would have thought that was a fairly strange attitude for a government to be taking, given what it has said elsewhere about drug use and abuse. 
It is when we come to the question of pornography and the one-third subsidy for printing pornography that one becomes a little alarmed about the way in which this Act is being allowed to operate. When we last amended the Bounty (Books) Act, which was in May of this year, we introduced at the end of section 8 a new section which provided that 'bounty is not payable in respect of a book that is a prohibited import', and so a test is now administered. If in the opinion of the Attorney-General's Department a book, if sought to be imported, would have been prohibited under section 4a of the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations, it is now possible for the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, acting on the advice of the Department of the Attorney-General, to decline to pay bounty on that book. One would have thought that that would have been an end to the matter, but I regret to say that it is not. The largest commercial printer of pornography in Australia is a firm called Griffin Press Ltd of 262 Marion Road, Netley, South Australia. It is owned by the Adelaide  Advertiser. 
I am coming to a list of the directors in a minute; you will not be disappointed. Last year we paid to Griffin Press the sum of $1,151,458, and the year before that $985,404. In fact in the period from 1969-70 to 1978-79 the sum of $6,015,467 was paid to Griffin Press. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table showing payments to Griffin Press for each of those years. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="083232197910234_57_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197910234_58_0.jpg"></graphic>

-It is not that Griffin Press or the Adelaide  Advertiser  is unaware of this matter.  Mrs Jennifer  Adamson, the Liberal member for Coles and now Minister for Health in South Australia, wrote on 6 April 1979 to the directors of Advertiser Newspapers Ltd. She addressed the letter to  Mr John  Bonython,  Chairman  of Directors, and sent copies to the following directors:  Sir Arthur  Rymill, J. McEwin,  Mr E.  H. Burgess,  Mr B.  Macklin,  Sir Phillip  Jones,  Mr P.  J. Owens and  Mr Brian  Sallis. In a debate in the House of Assembly on 2 1 August she presented to the South Australian House of Assembly a copy of her letter which was a plea to the directors of Advertiser Newspapers Ltd to take action to ensure that their company ceased publication of pornography. I seek leave to have a copy of that letter incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

Coles Electorate Office, Marco Crescent Arcade, corner Newton and Montacute Roads, NEWTON, S.A. 5074. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  Unfortunately, one can indicate that that does not mean that there are not being published on the stock list of Griffin Press a large number of pornographic items which nevertheless will receive bounty or which have received bounty since May. One can look at an impressive list. I select titles at random from an extremely lengthy list. The titles of the following books leave only a certain amount to the delicate imagination:  Hot Lady, A Shared Bedroom, Louisiana Lips, Open For Anything, All the Lust I can Get!, Daddy's Harlot, Succulent Sixteen, Love Whip, Deep Six, Daddy's Delicious, Continental Bedrooms, Lesbo Swap, Gay Tricks, Private Stock, Loving Hips, Big Bike Girl, Over Sexed  and  Older Woman's Colt.  All of those are titles of books still published by that firm and still attracting onethird of their cost of production from taxpayers ' revenue. So that a budget which is now running at $12m, introduced as I said in order to assist the printing industry to keep people in that industry, to keep members of the Printing and Kindred Industries Union in jobs in order ensure that the printing industry survived in Australia, in order to ensure that it remained a viable commerical enterprise in Australia, has now been perverted in that fashion. 
I am unaware of any ability in terms of public interest or of a member of the public being able to appeal on that basis. By contrast, I draw to your attention,  Mr President,  the fact that children's picture books, because of a definitional problem, are not eligible for payment of the bounty. A children's book is defined as a book which has a continuous narrative and it falls within the category of book, paper or comic which is to be found under Customs Tariff Item 49.01.9 and as such, is not eligible for bounty. A children's picture book, which is defined by the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs on the Brussells definition as being a book which is a picture book which does not have a continuous narrative, is therefore classed in Customs Tariff Schedule 49.03 and as a result, well produced, locally produced, children's picture books- educational material; material which has some considerable value and is an important aid to teaching and socialisation- is not eligible for payment of the book bounty. It is an extraordinary situation that under a piece of Commonwealth legislation the most rubbishy pornography can get a subsidy of one-third, yet children's picture books can be denied any access to government subsidy. 
-I think we get what we deserve when we put forward significant pieces of legislation and do not permit the Parliament to examine or to debate them. When they come into the Parliament on the last hour of the last sitting day, they are debated cognately with the legislation on the bounty for agricultural tractors, people are legitimately able to say that we get what we deserve. In response to the Government Whip, under those circumstances one is tempted to say: ' Physician, heal thyself'. I take this opportunity to make an appeal to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack),  who now has some departmental responsibility as it is his officers who must make a definition of what goods are pornographic and what goods are not, or what would fall under the strictures of Regulation 4A and what would not, to convey to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  the fact that members of the community feel genuine concern, as do members of parliament that when we introduce the Bounty (Books) Act we did not expect it would be used in this fashion. 
Books have been an integral part of human history and human culture since as far back as we can remember. The first book, of some 3,200 years B.C., found at Kish, the 600,000 Babylonian tablets which are in museums around the place, the Egyptian  Book of the Dead,  or the  Story of Si-nuhe  and the Harris papyrus have all indicated the extent to which cultures regard the printed word as important. A Spanish conquistadores, when writing of the destruction of the great Mayan library, said: 
We found a great number of books . . . and since they contained nothing but superstitions and falsehoods of the devil, we burned them all, which they took most grievously, and which gave them great pain. 
Printed books have been with us since the first printed book appeared in the year 868 A.D. I have said already that within five years of the production of the first book in England, English parliaments were providing government protection to the printing industry. We all know from when we amended Customs legislation here at the end of the previous session of Parliament that there is an exemption for all of those goods under the Florence convention- educational and cultural material, books and printed documents which needed to be protected. 
I make this appeal to the Attorney-General, who is here in the chamber this evening: This is a most important piece of legislation. It does a most important thing. The 47 million books which received subsidy last year undoubtedly contributed mightily to the development of the Australian nation, Australian culture and Australian awareness. That was what was intended when the legislation was introduced in 1969. It was intended to promote the printing industry and to promote the production of locally printed books in Australia. It was not the intention to have the legislation subverted in order to pay one-third of the costs of the  Marijuana Cookbook  or to pay one-third of the costs of the sort of pornograph that is being churned out and being churned out with taxpayers' funds. I was heartened to hear the reply of the Attorney-General this afternoon when I asked him whether it was the intention of the Government or whether the Government regarded it as proper that taxpayers' funds should be used to subsidise pornography. He said quite clearly and unequivocally that the answer to that question was no. I now ask him to look at this piece of legislation and to put into effect the comment he made so that those people who want to purchase and to read pornography will be perfectly free to do so. I think they ought to be free to do so and I would resist any attempt to prevent mature adults from doing so provided that they do not expect to do it with one-third of the cost being borne by the taxpayers of Australia. 
-Is the Minister for Science and the Environment aware that the annual research budget for the IBM company this year will be $1.25 billion? Is he aware that in recent years the percentage of gross domestic product spent on research has increased in countries such as West Germany, from 3 per cent to 3.2 per cent, and in Japan, from 1.3 per cent to 1.9 per cent? Is he further aware that the percentage of GDP spent on research and development is declining substantially in both the United Kingdom and the United States? Does he understand the relationship between investment in research and development and general economic growth indicated by the relative performances of West Germany and Japan, on the one hand, and of the United States and the United Kingdom, on the other hand? If he does, what steps does he propose to take to seek major increases in research and development expenditure in the government and private sectors in Australia? 
I rise to support the Overseas Students Charge Bill 1979 and the Overseas Students Charge Collection Bill 1979. As has been stated by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in her second reading speech, the purpose of the Bills is to put into effect the Government's decision to introduce an annual charge on overseas students studying in Australian universities and colleges of advanced education. The Bills have as what one might call its underlying rationale a statement which also appears in the Minister's second reading speech to this effect: 
The Government believes that these new policy initiatives- 
The Minister is not talking just about the two Bills, but to other matters to which I will refer in a minute: 
Will result in increased numbers of overseas students coming to Australia and improvements in selection criteria and arrangements. 
I think that if it could be demonstrated in practice that the net effect of these changes will be to increase the number of overseas students coming to Australia and to improve the selection criteria and arrangements these Bills would find ready acceptance. It is certainly true that, given that underlying rationale of the Bills it will be necessary for the Government to measure and monitor the success in achieving those aims once we have some empirical data upon which this test can be made. Quite clearly, if that underlying aim is not achieved, it will be necessary also for the Government to reconsider its position on the Overseas Student Charge Bill and to see whether the Bill remains compatible with that aim which it has announced. 
I indicate at the outset that lest it be thought that this legislation is designed to cover all overseas students in Australia, in fact, it covers private overseas students. As I understand the Minister 's second reading speech and other statements there are some 12 exemptions made by the legislation. 1 will list them. The first exemption relates to those overseas students who come to Australia under Australia's Development Assistance Program. The second is an exemption to permit development assistance funds to be applied to meet the charge in respect of students sponsored for entry by the governments of developing countries if the Minister for Foreign Affairs agrees to such arrangement. 
The third exemption involves post-graduate students who are holders of scholarships providing a basic stipend of at least $3,500. The fourth exemption is students undertaking postgraduate courses who are the holders of a scholarship awarded by the Australian-American Educational Foundation. The fifth is for students who are subject of approved reciprocal exchange agreements between Australian universities or colleges of advanced education and overseas tertiary institutions. The sixth exemption is students coming to Australia as part of an external study course. The seventh is students holding postfellowship awards awarded by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau. 
The eighth exemption applies to residents of external territories. The ninth is students already in Australia who were admitted specifically to undertake the final two years of their secondary education in Australia as a preliminary to an approved tertiary course and who commenced that course in 1980 and 1981. The tenth is students already in Australia who commence new courses at the same level of study that could be regarded as a normal progression from their current course. The eleventh is students changing from masters to doctoral awards or vice versa but only where either award has not been conferred. The twelfth and final exemption is students currently undertaking English language courses as a preliminary to an approved tertiary course, but only in respect of tertiary courses which are commenced in 1980. 
It should be noted also that these charges relate to students who are studying at Australian universities and colleges of advanced education.  (Quorum formed).  These charges apply to students studying at Australian universities and colleges of advanced education. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which shows the number of private overseas students studying in Australia as at 30 June 1979. It is listed by country of origin and by the institution at which those students are enrolled. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="083232197910256_79_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. This table shows that there were at that date some 8,572 private overseas students studying in Australia. The nature of the exemption which I have just mentioned, or the nature of the qualification that this charge applies only to CAEs and universities mean that those enrolled in primary schools, junior secondary schools, senior secondary schools, trade courses, secretarial commercial institutions, certified technical colleges- in other words, the schools and the TAFE areaand those who are in Australia studying to obtain professional qualifications or various English language programs will not be subject to the imposition of this fee. I should add that the table shows that that involves some 1 ,886 students or 22 per cent of the total number of private overseas students currently studying in Australia. 
I turn now to the definition of 'overseas student' which is set out in clause 4 of the Overseas Students Charge Bill. It reads: 
Overseas student' means a person (including a person who has not attained the age of majority) who is an immigrant within the meaning of the Migration Act 1958 and is enrolled or proposes to become enrolled in a prescribed course for a year, but does not include a person to whom subsection 8 ( 1 ) of that Act applies or a person who is the holder of a permanent entry permit; 
Without wearying the Senate with the details of precisely what it is that section 8 ( 1 ) of the Migration Act provides, I understand that it basically applies to members of the armed forces of the Crown entering Australia in the course of duty, diplomatic or consular representatives, a complement of a vessel of regular armed forces, members of the crew of certain vessels and people who are for the time being exempted by instrument under the hand of the Minister from the requirements of this division relating to entry permits. The relevant section goes on to provide that a person who is the holder of a permanent entry permit will be exempt from the payment of these charges. This legislation has to be seen within the context of an overall policy in terms of changing migration policies which were outlined by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  in the House of Representatives on 22 August. The Minister drew attention to a number of matters in which he dealt with this problem. Among other things he said:  . . although students have been admitted on the clear understanding that they would return to their home countries on completion of their studies, substantial numbers have sought and obtained permanent residence. Almost 75 per cent of students completing formal studies in recent years have applied successfully for resident status. This development has negated the main objectives of the program. 
-No, I do not in the least. I make no apportionment of blame. The fact that we have announced that we do not intend to grant that level of approval is a proper announcement for the Government to have made. I think it is long overdue. In talking about this matter the Minister went on to say: 
Australian students do not pay fees. However, in their case, pan of the cost of their education at tertiary level comes from Consolidated Revenue contributed in pan through tax by their families. No such contribution is made by overseas students or their families although many are well able to afford such costs and, indeed, would have to pay fees if the student undertook higher education in the home country. 
The spokesman for the Opposition, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  in replying to the statement of the Minister gave what I think amounts to quite a clear degree of support for that general principle.  Dr Cass  said: 
The Minister has made the point that overseas students sponsored under bilateral arrangements will have their charges paid under the aid programs. Quite clearly we as a country will be making a contribution to that. At the same time it seems unreasonable, as noted by the Minister, to allow the people who are well able to pay- wherever they might go- to be able to take advantage of the free tuition in our colleges of advanced education and universities. They receive the training at no cost to themselves. The burden is completely on the Australian taxpayer. The Opposition agrees with the Minister's proposals in that regard. 
The Minister interjected and said: 
They will not be able to do that now. 

 Dr Cass continued: 
Precisely. We agree with the Minister's proposal to change that. 
I think that is an indication of a degree of support rendered by the Opposition spokesman on this matter. The objectives of the overseas students policy were spelt out with a little more decision in a statement released by the Minister on 28 August. In that statement the Minister said: 
A recent review of the former policy- 
I understand that to have been a review undertaken by an inter-departmental committee upon which representatives of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Australian Development Aid Bureau were represented- showed that the limits on total overseas student numbers were denying opportunities to many people of ability, wanting to acquire qualifications which would be of considerable use to their countries. In many such cases, these people came from developing countries with insufficient places in universities to meet their own needs. 
A key element of Australia's new policy is the abandonment of previous numerical limits and the development of criteria to increase total numbers of overseas students within the available capacity of Australian institutions and without displacing Australian students. 
The imposition of a charge on overseas students will enable an increase in total student numbers without adding significantly to the burden of the Australian taxpayer. 
The new Australian policy is intended to ensure that study opportunities in Australia are of maximum benefit to developing countries, particularly those in our region. Henceforth, an important factor in determining admission will be the usefulness of the proposed course both to the individual student and his home country. 
I believe it is within that general framework that the operation for these two new pieces of legislation have to be perceived. Again speaking in the debate in the House of Representatives on 24 October this year  Dr Cass  indicated: 
. there may be some justification for charging those seeking to study in Australia, outside and independent of that particular scheme . . . 
That is the scheme which is referred to in the Opposition's amendment moved to the motion for the second reading of this Bill. A number of criticisms have been advanced of this proposal in general. I wish to refer specifically and, indeed, in some detail to the publication by the Australian Union of Students and the Western Australian Institute of Technology Guild which prepared a submission to the Minister for Education and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. It is entitled: 'The effect of the Proposed Tuition Charge for Overseas Students in Australian Post-Secondary Education, and related matters'. This publication by AUS- I have the liberty to say it is one of the weakest and most farcical that I have seen that organisation produce, which says a great deal-in terms of the ten points it puts forward exposes each one of those points severally and collectively as a great deal of nonsense. The preamble to the report in the chapter headed 'Summary of Submission' indicates, for instance, that there is an alleged proposal to 'force them to leave Australia immediately on completion of their courses despite the fact that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has indicated that there are a number of ways in which that matter can be dealt with and that the element of forcing them to leave Australia is quite incorrect in that sense although the idea that they should return to their home countries is one supported not only by the Government but by the Australian Labor Party. It goes on in the first point to say: 
The tuition fee is discriminatory and will create international ill will. 
That is put forward again with absolutely no evidence to substantiate it. We have had a period of two months since this charge - 
-It will create goodwill,  Senator Gietzelt,  if, as I have said, the objectives which this Bill intends to pursue in making more places available in Australian universities are fulfilled. So, the answer to that question is yes. The lack of evidence that is presented for this charge and the fact that in the two months which have elapsed since the announcement in the Budget Speech of any indication of a government-to-government basis of any disquiet or international illwill needs to be borne in mind. The AUS went on to say: 
The fee will discourage poorer overseas students from undertaking courses in Australia. 
That is not correct since the selection criteria, the variations in the selection criteria and the ability to expand this scheme and the various schemes of reciprocal scholarships will in fact mean that the emphasis will be upon the selection of people of merit rather than the selection procedures which have been highly discriminatory in countries of origin in the past, as one can see from the practices involving the Malaysian Government in the way in which it has practised quite a considerable form of discrimination against students it trains in its own universities, and in the racial composition of that group of students who study overseas. The AUS went on to say: 
The financial yield from the fee is miniscule. 
If that were a substantial criticism, simply because the fee that is charged is not large, there is no case. It goes on to say: 
Overseas students already bring to Australia considerable foreign exchange and contribute to taxation through part time and vacation work, and jobs after graduation. There is no evidence that the Australian taxpayer resents providing them with free tuition. 
It is not a matter of whether the Australian taxpayer resents or does not resent. It is a matter of whether the objective stated by the Government in terms of its ability to provide more places at the university can be met. The article continues: 
They are a valuable asset to our tertiary institutions. 
Indeed they are, and the policy is designed to have more of them there. It continues: 
The qualifications gained by overseas students in Australia are generally useful in their home countries. 
That is precisely the point we are making, and precisely the point which exposes the nonsense in the AUS submission about students being forced to return to their homes. How can they possibly be generally useful in their home countries if they stay here once they have obtained the qualifications? The submission goes on to deal with the administrative problems which presumably AUS has a far greater appreciation of than the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The submission goes on to say: 
Repatriation may also place some students in political jeopardy. 
Yet is has been made quite clear in ministerial statements that a student who believes that if he is required to return to his home country he will be subject to some form of political persecution and discrimination has the same rights to apply to the Committee on the Determination of Refugee Status to have his case considered and to be one of the exceptions that would be made. The AUS goes on to say: 
Private students who have been able to enter a higher education in their own countries and have had access to Australian education may not be able to do so under the new selection criteria. 
The new selection criteria will be based upon merit, and I think they are appropriate selection criteria to pertain. In the typical hysterical nonsense that one gets from AUS this is said: 
The fee proposal represents a broken promise by the Government and may be a pilot mechanism for introducing universal tuition charges. 
I suppose that both the AUS comment and the comment in similar vein which was made by Yvonne Preston in the  National Times  of 27 October simply go to show that one can keep on repeating statements of policy, but if there are people in the community who do not want to believe statements of policy, it does not matter how often we repeat it; we will not be able to budge them away from the fact - 
All I can say in reply to the honourable senator is that the people of Australia have had several opportunities in the last couple of years to pronounce upon that matter and they have pronounced upon it in fairly firm and fairly large terms. 
The fee issue is the typical red herring introduced to confuse this debate. It has been said, and it was said again today by  Senator Grimes,  that part and parcel of this whole exercise is that studying in Australian universities and the facility to study at Australian universities constitute part of the foreign aid program. That is simply not so. The private overseas student scheme is not an aid program. This concept was removed from the scheme when the policy was reviewed by the then Government in 1973. The policy was not the subject of a debate in the Parliament, and I suppose it is not surprising that it was not the subject of a debate in the Parliament in 1973. 1 refer to a comment by the then Minister for Immigration, the  Hon.  A. J. Grassby, who on 22 October 1973 said: 
This scheme is designed to promote friendship and amity in our region. It is not meant as an aid gesture to our neighbours. 
So in 1973 the Labor Minister for Immigration put clearly in perspective what this scheme was and what it was not. He said: 
It is not meant as an aid gesture to our neighbours. 
I think the attempt by the Labor Party now to repudiate its own Government policy in 1973 and try to pretend that this scheme is part of an aid program is one which does not bear very close analysis by members of the Parliament. 
It is important that we have some idea about the nature and the characteristics of the private overseas students to whom we are referring in this legislation. Earlier this year a book entitled Brain Drain and Foreign Students', by G. Lakshmana Rao was published, it being the survey of overseas students in Australia conducted from 1973 to 1975. It is, I suppose, one of the most up to date and comprehensive analyses of the characteristics of overseas students studying in Australia. I wish firstly to read a number of the conclusions from  Mr Rao's  book, and then seek leave to incorporate some statistical material from the book in  Hansard.  In the summary to his chapter entitled 'Social Background of Overseas Students '  Mr Rao  writes: 
From this point of view it is desirable that overseas students (future innovators and elites in their home countries) should come from a cross-section of the society in their home countries. The fact, however, is that a vast majority of the overseas students in Australia come from a very privileged urban middle class social background and from minority racial, religious, and language groups. 
-That is a very unworthy interjection that I would hardly have expected from the honourable senator. In the chapter entitled 'Motives for Overseas Study', Rao writes as follows: 
All told, both push factors from home and pull factors from abroad influence students to come to Australia, but push factors from home appear to be important in the case of private students while pull factors from Australia appear to be more important in the case of sponsored students. 
Finally, in the chapter in which he is writing about 'Factors and Attitudes associated with Intentions to Stay Abroad ' Rao writes: 
Within Australia, the phenomenon of non-return of overseas students relates mostly to private students. 
I now seek to have incorporated in  Hansard  a number of tables which I had the opportunity of showing  Senator Grimes  earlier this evening. They relate to the type of residence, education and occupation and overseas visits by the parents of the respondents to the survey which was conducted among overseas students in Australia; the religious affiliation of and goods and services possessed by the parents of respondents in their home countries; the social and educational background of students in their home countries; the factors which cause overseas students to hesitate about leaving their country of origin to study abroad by country of origin, sponsorship and career plans; the ranking of reasons for studying 

<graphic href="083232197910256_83_1.jpg"></graphic>

abroad by racial group; the percentage of respondents perceiving different problems as very important or important by country of origin; the long-run migration plans by country of origin and race; the indices of return for majorityminority groups by country of origin; and the index of return by sponsorship, scholarship, source of financial support, bound bond job guarantee student. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="083232197910256_83_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197910256_84_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197910256_85_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197910256_86_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197910256_87_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197910256_88_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197910256_89_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197910256_90_8.jpg"></graphic>

My response to  Senator Colston  is simply that the tables that I indicate are each on separate pages. There are nine tables altogether which I have sought to have incorporated in  Hansard  and which  Senator Grimes  had the opportunity to see earlier this evening. 
-I appreciate that, and if the honourable senator has any particular objection, I am sure it can be dealt with. 
-As I said, negotiations with foreign governments are taking place. I note from an article in today's Melbourne  Age  that some discussions are not to take place with the Malaysian Minister for Education, Datuk Mutta Hussein bin Onn. I repeat the information that it appears that in the two months since the introduction of this announcement in the Budget no formal protests or objections have been lodged with the Australian Government. The practice that we are now undertaking is not a practice unique to Australia. I note that in the  Economist  of 22 September 1979 it is indicated that the 85,000 foreign students in Britain's statefinanced colleges and universities are now subject to a decision of the Government, which ordered the colleges to raise their tuition fees and set officials working on ways of charging nonBritish students the full cost of their education. 
In conclusion I want to say briefly that the charge that this innovation could reduce numbers is not sustainable. In recent years Australia has accepted about 2,400 private overseas students a year to undertake long term and formal studies. The selection criterion has been quite restrictive, particularly the requirement that proposed courses should not be available in the home country. Even within the widespread knowledge of this criterion, inquiries about entry for formal studies are usually about 30,000 a year. The Government expects to increase the intake of private students in line with the available capacity at Australian institutions, taking care to avoid any significant displacement of local students. It is expected that there will be no shortage of applicants able and willing to meet the moderate charges proposed. Indeed, it is almost certain that the number of applicants who may be considered under the new criterion will substantially exceed the number who may be accepted, and preference will be given to those with high academic standard and those from priority countries who wish to acquire a qualification or skill of particular value in their countries. The experience of other countries offering training facilities for overseas students indicates quite clearly that the need to pay fees or charges does not cause reduction in interest. On the basis that the objective of the Government in introducing this legislation is to bring about a situation in which more overseas students can be found places to study at Australian universities to the benefit of Australia, the students and their home countries, I give my support to these two Bills. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a grave threat to the life of refugees from the various States of Indo-China arises from the policies of the Government of Vietnam. 
That, as a result of these policies, many thousands of refugees are fleeing their homes and risking starvation and drowning. Because of the failure of the rich nations of the world to provide more than token assistance, the resources of the nations of first refuge, especially Malaysia and Thailand, are being stretched beyond reasonable limits. 
As a weathly nation within the region most affected, Australia is able to play a major part in the rescue as well as resettlement of these refugees. 
It should be possible for Australia to: -establish and maintain on the Australian mainland basic transit camps for the housing and processing of 200,000 refugees each year; -mobilise the Defence Force to search for, rescue and transport to Australia those refugees who have been able to leave the Indo-China States; -accept the offer of those church groups which propose to resettle some thousands of refugees in Australia. 
The adoption of such a humane policy would have a marked effect on Australia's standing within the region. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as it touches on several portfolios. I ask him whether he has seen a comment by Professor Brian Wilson, the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Queensland, indicating the alarm that he and his university colleagues have about the general declining level of research in Australia, its decline by 4.5 per cent this year and the fact that Australian research money is half the percentage of money in places like Britain, North America, Germany and Japan. Has he further seen a statement by  Dr Geoffrey  Duggin  the Vice-President of the Australian Society for Medical Research, in which he says that 1980 would be a year of unmitigated disaster for Australian medical research? Is he aware that in 1973-74 some 800 firms reported to Project SCORE that they were undertaking research and development projects, and by 1 976-77 this had declined by at least 350 firms? If he has seen these statements, does he share the general concern which is widespread in large sections of the Australian community about the generally inadequate levels of funding provided for research and development work in Australia? 
-by leave-I want to commence by paying tribute not only to the members of the Committee who were involved in the exercise but also to members of the staff of the Committee and the consultants to the Committee who played a very great part in assembling for us an enormous amount of material and in co-ordinating the very difficult process of submissions and public hearings which were involved in the production of this report. I think it will be seen that one of the most valuable aspects of the report, apart from its recommendations about the Australian piece of legislation, will be found in the bibliography which is an integral part of this report identifying the areas of debate and discussion, and identifying the sources pf debate and discussion on the question of freedom of information. I regard this as an exercise which is critical to the shaping of the nature of parliamentary government in Australia in the future. A great deal has been made by people appearing before the Committee about the Westminster system and about the doctrine of Ministerial responsibility. I want to say quite simply a couple of things about those two issues and about the attitude of senior public servants who appeared before the Committee. 
On page 55 of the Committee's report, at paragraphs 4.62 and 4.63, will be found its conclusions about the operation of the Westminster system of government and freedom of information. The report reads: 4.62 We value the Westminster system of government; we do not seek to change it; nor do we believe effective freedom of information legislation would change it A great deal of the talk about the Westminster system and how it would be altered by freedom of information legislation has been obscured and misleading. To a great extent the term 'Westminster system' has been used as a smoke-screen behind which to hide, and with which to cover up existing practices of unnecessary secrecy. Very often people have alleged that the Westminster system is under attack by freedom of information legislation when what is actually under attack is their own traditional and convenient way of doing things, immune from public gaze and scrutiny. We are indeed seeking to put an end to that What matters is not the convenience of ministers or public servants, but what contributes to better government. The only feature of the Westminster system which cannot be in any way modified without fundamentally subverting that system is the need to ensure that members of the Executive Government are part of, and drawn from, the Legislature. Freedom of information legislation does not alter this one iota. The other features of the Westminster system which we have identified will either not be significantly changed by our freedom of information proposals or else will, we believe, be changed for the better. 4.63 Freedom of information legislation does not relate to any specific system of government, be it a Westminster, presidential or any other system. It is rather a question of attitudes, a view about the nature of government, how it works and what is relationship is to the people it is supposed to be serving. Any political system which holds that the people are entitled to a maximum degree of information about how their government operates, so that it can be made more responsive and accountable to them, will welcome an effective Freedom of Information Bill. In this respect a Westminster system of government should be no different from any other. 
Professor Reid, when speaking of ministerial responsibility in Australia in an address to the 1978 Summer School of the Australian Institute of Political Science, said: 
The doctrine of Ministerial responsibility looks sick  . . in the context of about 27 Ministerial departments and approximately 200 diverse, largely autonomous, statutory corporations established to avoid 'political control or full accountability '. 
I mention finally that J. R. Mallory, in an article entitled 'Politics by Other Means', which appeared in the Journal of Commonwealth and Comparative Studies of March 1979, cites Professor Reid as identifying in Australia a problem which was, as he saw it-  a combination of 'impatience with politics' and a growing imbalance between the efficacy of parliament as compared with the increasingly powerful executive and the courts. 
I have no hesitation in saying that the witnesses who appeared before our Committee- the permanent heads of the Department- of the Treasury and of the Department of Prime, Minister and Cabinet- appeared without qualification to be most opposed to the effective operation of freedom of information legislation. One starts to worry when the senior permanent public servants advising this Government- I repeat, the permanent heads of the Department of the Treasury and of the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet- appear before us and, in my view, provide, at least in the case of one of them, the minimum possible amount of information accessible to a Senate Committee. One appreciates where the expression 'squeezing information' or blood out of a stone' originates. The other public servant quite clearly indicated the extent to which he regarded freedom of information to be an intrusion upon the procedures of his Department. 
Frankly, this Government, this Parliament, has to come to grips with the very simple question that from time to time honourable senators on this side of the chamber have raised in other contexts. That is: Who is running the country? Presumably the answer is that, if w*. believe in the system of Westminster government and responsibility, the Parliament is running the country. This report will provide a considerable test of that particular proposition: Who is running the country and for whom is it being run? If we believe, as the Committee has clearly stated, that democracy as a system of government is operational only when there is available a maximum degree of public information about what the elected representatives of the people, and their permanent servants, are up to- if that belief is held not only by the Committee but also by the members of the Parliament who constitute the Executive- I believe the report and its recommendations should see their way speedily into legislative form. 
I am pleased that this Bill is in the hands of this chamber and not exclusively those of the Executive. The warning that  Senator Hamer  gave about the ability of the Parliament to pick up this legislation and deal with it if there should be a concerted and deliberate attempt to bury it, as  Senator Mason  has indicated has happened with the Horton report, the remedy will lie in the hands of the Parliament and any failure to act will lie at the door of each individual member of it. 
I believe that freedom of information is capable of making an important change in the way in which Australian government operates and in restoring something that has been substantially lost in the last couple of years in Australia and in other Westminster systems: That the control of legislation and of the shape of government lies in the hands of Parliament and that the purpose for which that control is exercised is the better government of the people of the country concerned. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment, arises out of the report of the Australian Research Grants Committee which he tabled yesterday. Does the report indicate that applications for grants in 1 980 were 8.5 per cent higher than in 1979; that the Australian Research Grants Committee expresses considerable dissatisfaction with the fact that it does not have the funds to increase available grants or expand the scheme; that it draws attention to the fact that the average grant in real terms has been forced down to $8,503 compared with an average of $13,500 in the late 1960s; that it had to decline to fund 1 12 good quality projects next year; and that it makes an appeal to the Government for an increase in its funding of $3. 5m in line with the recommendations in the report of the Australian Science and Technology Council? What chance does the ARGC have of getting the funds that it is requesting? 
I rise to address my remarks to the Human Rights Commission Bill and, to a much lesser extent, the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill. Human rights, and respect for human rights, are in fact a precondition of democracy and a precondition of the rule of law. In fact, it is the respect for individual human beings and individual human rights that makes democracy possible and the rule of law an achievable aim of civilised societies. 
In some ways the one thing that has not been clearly presented in this debate is an answer to the fundamental question why it is that human rights ought to be an issue, why it is that the legislative protection of human rights ought to be a matter of concern, not simply to the Australian Parliament but to any democratic parliament and to any democratic citizen. I have researched  the history of a number of debates that took place in Europe in the post-war period at a time when the nations of Europe were coming to grips with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.  (Quorum formed).  I was saying that one of the things we ought to do is to have some indication of the arguments that have been clearly presented about the need for human rights legislation in some form or other. I turn to a debate which occurred in the European Consultative Assembly in August 1949 which was discussing the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Monsieur Pierre-Henri  Teitgen,  a leader of the French republican movement and a former Minister of Justice, in his speech to that Assembly, commented as follows: 
Many of our colleagues have pointed out that our countries are democratic and are deeply impregnated with a sense of freedom; they believe in morality and in natural law . . . Why is it necessary to build such a system? 
Democracies do not become Nazi countries in one day. Evil progresses cunningly, with a minority operating, as it were, to remove the levers of control. One by one, freedoms are suppressed, in one sphere after another. Public opinion and the entire national conscience are asphyxiated. And then, when everthing is in order, the 'Fuhrer' is installed and the evolution continues even to the oven of the crematorium. 
It is necessary to intervene before it is too late. A conscience must exist somewhere which will sound the alarm to the minds of a nation menaced by this progressive corruption, to warn them of the peril and to show them that they are progressing down a long road which leads far, sometimes even to Buchenwald or to Dachau. 
When the Committee of Ministers met in Rome in 1950,  Mr Sean  MacBride, the Irish Minister for External Affairs, commented: 
The present struggle is one which is largely being fought in the minds and consciences of mankind. 
That is a comment which evokes a great deal of what  Senator Wheeldon  was saying this afternoon.  Mr MacBride  continued: 
In this struggle, I have always felt that we lacked a clearly defined charter which set out unambiguously the rights which we democrats guarantee to our people. This Convention is a step in that direction. 
Monsieur Robert Schuman, one of the great Europeans, said: 
This Convention which we are signing is not as full or as precise as many of us would have wished. However, we have thought it our duty to subscribe to it as it stands. It provides foundations on which to base the defence of human personality against all tyrannies and against all forms of totalitarianism. 
It ought to be recalled that democracy, civil liberties and human rights are a fragile flower. It is not something which stands a great deal of buffeting and it is something which is easily subverted. In the publication prepared for the Conservative Party in the United Kingdom by Peter Wallington and Jeremy McBride entitled 'Civil Liberties and a Bill of Rights', this was clearly spelled out. In advocating a Bill of rights in the British system the authors said: 
The main argument for a Bill of Rights rests on an assessment of the present state of civil liberties in Britain. Although in practice we enjoy a remarkable level of tolerance (at least by the standards of other countries) of individual behaviour, there are serious gaps, and the tolerance itself is fragile. Respect for individual liberties often seems to stop short at members of unpopular minority groups, and hostility and prejudice over immigration have fostered a climate where it is difficult, even if the effort is made, to ensure that elementary considerations of humanity extends to the procedures for deciding applications to enter the country. Tolerance is also fragile because it is not always protected by law. Civil liberties frequently have a precarious legal status in that they exist only so long as the law happens not to trample on them, and they have no autonomous legal muscle to assert against whatever other, and more authoritarian pressures may happen to intervene. 
In exactly the same vein the most distinguished Lord Chancellor of Great Britain, Lord Hailsham, has this to say in his recent biography entitled 'The Door Wherein I Went': 
What is needed is an explanation of rights which are universally acknowledged to exist both in the individual and the State, and some guidance of what these rights are and what is to happen when there is a conflict of interest . . . 
That is what I believe this Bill is a first step in seeking to achieve. The debate over rights as an issue is one that I think legitimately could detain this Senate for a few moments. The issue of rights is an issue which has been debated in political philosophy as long as there has been debate on political philosophy. It has varied from one extreme to another. Plato, in his discussion of rights, said simply something along these lines: Philosopher Kings are possessed of the ability to determine what is the ideal for which we should all strive; therefore, they have the right to impose upon others conformity to their will. It was not until a later stage, until Aristotle and Cicero started trying to formulate some sort of conception of natural rights, that is, rights inherent in every human being, rights without which the definition of the term 'human being' ceased to have any meaning. One of the great  rennaissance  philosophers, Delia  Mirandola,  writing in I486 attempted to come to grips with this definition of right and asserting the political principles of rights from what he saw as a theological base, in relation to the description of mankind, wrote as follows: 
A limited nature in other creatures is confined within the laws written down by us. In conformity with thy free judgment, in whose hands I have placed thee, thou art confined by no bounds; and thou wilt fix limits of nature for thyself . . . Thou canst grow downward into the lower natures which are brutes. Thou canst again grow upward from thy soul's reason into the higher natures which are divine. 
This idea of attempting to make some definition of what it is that the term 'rights' means, what it is we are talking about when we are talking about rights, is what we have to come to grips with in understanding whether a debate about human rights and human rights legislation has a particular place in Australia today. We have known, for instance, that assertions of rights have been fundamentally important principles in determining the course of history. The Americans were able to write: 
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness. 
They were making a statement about rights, about an attitude towards human beings and about an attitude towards the position of the human being in society which is fundamental to the democratic process. I know that  Senator Evans  displayed some testiness in other people attempting to give what they consider lengthy but perhaps valid dissertations on this matter. Perhaps that principle would have more respect on this side if he applied it equally on both sides of the chamber. It does not deter me from saying that I think, in determining what we mean by rights, will take us a long way towards determining our attitude to human rights legislation as such. Undoubtedly, the most perceptive critic or the most perceptive writer on the question of rights during the course of development of this idea among the English speaking people was Edmund Burke. He dealt with this subject in a number of his writings, for instance, the Speech on Fox's East India Bill, his Reflections on the Revolution in France, on Letters on a Regicide Peace and the Appeal from the New Whigs to the Old, and many others. 
Something along those lines, senator. He had a great deal to say on the question of rights and he was particularly concerned to try to balance what I believe this Bill is a first tentative step in balancing. A legislative framework to provide for the protection of human rights based upon the belief that simply stating that rights exist and hoping that somebody else at some other time will act to protect them is, in fact, an insufficient way of securing those rights. He particularly talked about the pretended rights of man in one of his works. He said: 
The pretended rights of man which have made this havoc - 
He was referring to the French revolution- cannot be the rights of the people. For to be a people and to have these rights are things incompatible. 
He was trying to make the point that we do ourselves no great service in simply making assertions that rights exist and then expecting that we can build a whole edifice upon that. On this vein the classic basis of people stating that Bills of Rights ought to be written and ought to present the answer to all these problems- that is not a point of view that I hold- was stated by Jeremy Bentham. In talking about the written Bill of Rights and why he rejected it, he said: 
Look to the letter, you find nonsense- look beyond the letter, you find nothing . . . There are no such things as natural rights- no such things as natural rights opposed to, in contradistinction to legal . . . Natural rights is simple nonsense: natural and imprescriptible rights, rhetoric nonsense- nonsense upon stilts. 
If we are to come to grips effectively with these problems, we will have to do so by a more precise definition of what we mean by rights, a more precise definition of those rights that we expect to be protected by and a more precise definition about how we expect those rights to be protected. If people are interested in following this even further, I think the most perceptive thing written recently about this matter was published in 1977 in a book entitled  Individual Liberty and the Law,  The Tagore Law Lectures delivered by the now Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen. 
It is equally important to distinguish between rights and needs. The simple assertion that certain things are needed is not the same as the assertion that one has rights to a certain thing. This leads us to the situation in which two alternative approaches, are presented to the way in which human rights can be secured. It is said that either one can rely exclusively upon the operation of the common law and the common law will provide the protection of one's rights, or that one can go to the other extreme and have a written Bill of rights and a written Bill of rights will be sufficient. I believe that neither of those is an effective solution; neither of those brings us to the position of providing an adequate protection of the rights of the Australian people in the 1 980s and beyond. For instance, many people who believe that the common law is quite sufficient to provide for all one's purposes, say: 'We have the Magna Carta, we have the Bill of Rights, we have habeas corpus and all the law that goes with those and that is sufficient'. I think the mistake that they make is to overestimate exactly what those fundamental laws really mean. It is fashionable to talk about Magna Carta, yet there are only two out of the 63 parts of Magna Carta that are still applicable in law today. One of them, Chapter 9, relates to the protection of debtors. The only part of the Magna Carta which still stands as statute law is Chapter 8. 1 suppose those people interested in the feminist movement would be interested in this fact because that Chapter of Magna Carta reads: 
. 'no widow shall be compelled to many so long as she wishes to live without a husband . . .' 
It is small comfort to believe that the protection of widows is the only part of Magna Carta that still exists in statute law. The Bill of Rights is essentially a protection not for the rights of citizens but for the rights of members of parliament. Apart from the qualifications about the elections of parliament, the Bill of Rights is a statement about the powers of parliament. The Chief Justice of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, in presenting his 1979 Bentham Oration, was moved to make this point: 
These foundation documents asserted existing rights and claimed their Royal recognition. Those instruments were not sources of individual rights. 
That is a point that I think needs to be made and to be made over and over again. One knows that even habeas corpus has been suspended from time to time in situations of emergencies or when governments essentially felt it necessary and proper. It is interesting to reflect that for those who believe that the common law is all that one needs, one would have expected to find that this proposition was most vehemently defended in the United Kingdom, and in the United Kingdom most vehemently defended by members of the Conservative Party. But that is certainly not true. For instance, Lord Hailsham, the current Lord Chancellor, has written in his latest book about a need for a Bill of rights because he fears the elective dictatorship of parliament. In his Menzies Oration delivered on 12 May 1978 in Sydney, he warned about the problems of centralised democracy which required us to write down limitations upon the power of the Parliament. 

 Sir Keith Joseph, who I think would not be taken as a blushing radical among the conservative Administration at the moment, has been moved to write as follows: 
Which brings me back to natural justice and the need to embody it in law. Until recently, people of all classes regarded the law as basically just. The Marxist minority would call it 'class law ' more out of habit than from immediate conviction, but the public was not with them. Today the law is becoming a party-political football. If we are to save the law from Parliament, and Parliament from itself, we need a new safeguard. 

 Mrs Thatcher has gone on record as supporting the need for a Bill of rights.  Sir Leslie  Scarman, as he then was, in presenting his Hamlyn Lecture entitled 'English Law- The New Dimension' in 1974 said: 
When times are normal and fear is not stalking the land, English law sturdily protects the freedom of the individual and respects human personality. But when times are abnormally alive with fear and prejudice, the common law is at a disadvantage: it cannot resist the will, however frightened and prejudiced it may be, of Parliament. 
He went on to say that he sees:  no reason why a curb should not be placed on Parliament herself when the issue is one of human rights. 
Finally,  Sir Norman  Anderson again presenting a Hamlyn Lecture entitled 'Liberty, Law and Justice' was at great pains to spend part of his discussion on illustrating why he believed the state of the common law in Great Britain was such as to require, in that country, the enactment of a Bill of rights. I have said previously that I do not support the concept of a Bill of rights. I think this part of my argument demonstrates that the proposition that people can rely upon the operations of the common law, leave it to judges, to tradition, to history and to the good sense of people in the community simply does not exist when there are pressures- the pressures against blacks, the pressures against Vietnamese refugees, the pressures of unemployment or anything else- because one of the first things that is sacrificed when those sorts of conditions prevail are the human rights of other people and essentially the human rights of voiceless and defenceless minorities. 
I wish to say something about the Bill of Rights debate in Australia. I have listened with great care and interest to  Senator Evans'  speech this evening but I was even moved to spend some time reading an article by, as the lawyers would say,  Mr Evans  as he then was. That article occupies a full 30 pages in the  Australian Quarterly  of March 1973. 
I am distressed that as an academic the honourable senator would be prepared to give good marks simply because the examiner was being flattered. In coming to his conclusion  Senator Evans  at the end of that article said: 
Any supporter of a bill of rights who retains his objectivity must concede that there are difficulties and uncertainties surrounding this method of protecting fundamental rights. But such difficulties as there may prove to be with a bill are as nothing compared with those involved right now in getting parliaments and the courts to recognise the importance of these rights, and to go on respecting them in practice. At present there are no effective constraints at all on their action, and no clear principles to guide them. It is hard to imagine that a bill of rights would make no difference. 
This is the old Jewish joke about chicken soup- it cannot do any harm. Frankly, if that is the best that can be adduced for a Bill of rights I think that it still requires us to view that matter with some degree of scepticism. 
-I doubt that there is anybody with either the time or the patience to read the rest of  Senator Evans's  collective works on this or any other subject, although I do regret to say that I will be coming back to one of them later on in my speech. 
It will be recalled that when the Law Reform Commission legislation was first being debated in this place  Senator Greenwood  on this side introduced a proposal to require the Law Reform Commission to ascertain whether legislation that came before it for consideration was in fact compatible with the articles of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Of that piece of legislation, he said in the Senate on 6 December 1973: 
I think there is some novelty in the provision relating to the articles of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Its use as a standpoint from which all legislation which is being reviewed could be tested in order to ascertain whether it accords with those principles is also a desirable function of the Commission to have in mind. 
One of the tests which is now constructed in the piece of legislation before us is to measure against an objective set of criteria derived admit.tedy outside Australia but adhered to by Australia whether in fact the laws of Australia can stand test against that piece of legislation. 
As my colleague  Senator Missen  has already indicated, the Turner Memorial Lecture delivered by  Mr Justice  Kirby- I think it was printed in the University of Tasmania Law Review in 1 976- again canvassed this issue in some considerable detail. I have said and  Senator Missen  before me this evening said that one of the things that those of us who are not attracted- 
-I appreciate that, senator.  (Quorum formed).  I was saying that one of the reasons for my not supporting the idea of a Bill of Rights is the extent to which it makes the rights of individual citizens dependent not just upon the views of the judiciary but upon the views of the particular judges of the day. If one could be assured that there was some degree of continuity, that rights once defined and laid down by the judiciary were to remain without change one would have a little more confidence in a Bill of rights. But one knows from the Australian experience that a case which may be regarded as the precedent may be overthrown and an entirely new precedent established in terms of things like the immunity of instrumentalities with the case of D 'Emden and Pedder being overthrown by the Engineers case or in terms of the corporations power with the case of Huddart Parker and Moorehead being overthrown by the Rocla Concrete Pipes case. 
One can look for instance at even a judicial expression of the fact that the judiciary will itself from time to time vary the way in which legislation is to be interpreted.  Mr Justice  Mason in giving his judgment in the case Victoria v. Commonwealth and Hayden in 1975 said: 
No doubt there are other enterprises and activities appropriate to a national government which may be undertaken by the Commonwealth on behalf of the nation. The functions appropriate and adapted to a national government will vary from time to time. As time unfolds, as circumstances and conditions alter, it will transpire that particular enterprises and activities will be undertaken if they are to be undertaken at all, by the national government. 
Frankly, I am not impressed with the idea of making the fundamental human rights of Australian citizens dependent upon what the judiciary says will vary from time to time, as time unfolds, and as circumstances and conditions alter because I do not want human rights in Australia to be dependent upon time and circumstance. 
The Americans have found this to their great cost. One looks at the American Constitution and the variety of interpretation. Who would have thought that Article 1 of the United States Constitution, which makes the statement that it is necessary to have a well regulated militia should be used as the basis for striking down all gun control legislation in the United States or indeed that the provisions of Article 1 which relate to free speech should be used in the case of Buckley v. Valeo as the basis for saying that there can be no limit on election campaign expenditure. Who would have thought that Article 14 of the American Constitution, which is the equal protection clause, in terms of education could be interpreted in 1 896 in Plessy v. Ferguson as saying that separate educational facilities could be equal and then be overturned in Brown v. Topeka in 1 954 which said that separate facilities are inherently unequal. 
Who would have thought that the equal protection clause in Article 14 dealing the voting rights could be held in 1926 in Fergus v. Marks as being purely a political issue and by the time it had come round to 1964 in Reynolds v. Sim it was found that the American Supreme Court said: 
Legislators represent people, not trees or acres. Legislators are elected by voters, not farms or cities or economic interests. 
As a result, the argument was that the courts had the right to interfere in apportionment matters. Who would have thought that Article 5 in regard to self-incrimination could have been so far extended perhaps at the high water mark of Miranda v. Arizona to prevent almost any form of police investigation. One would have thought, for instance, that Article 1 makes it absolutely clear that Congress should impose no limitations on the freedom of the Press. Yet recent decisions even this year, by the American Supreme Court in cases such as Hutchinson v. Proxmire or the Progressive Case have made it clear that the courts are now prepared to erect barriers to investigative journalism or that the right of public trial specified in Article 6 should have been in July of this year defined by the American Supreme Court in a case involving De Pasquale to say that the public has no constitution right to attend criminal trials; or that the American Constitution should have been found so deficient in its legal interpretation to require it to be altered on no less than four separate occasions- in 1 870, 1920, 1964 and 1971- to try to secure voting rights for all adult Americans over the age of 1 8. 
We know that in Australia the debate whether Australia should have a Bill of rights is one that preoccupied the Founding Fathers of the Australian Constitution. Professor La Nauze in his book  The Making of the Australian Constitution  indicates quite clearly: 
The Convention did, however, discuss almost to the end the most celebrated of American 'rights', and there were more reasons for discarding or diluting them than an unshakeable faith in parliamentary democracy.  (Quorum formed). 
It has been said that there were three fundamental rights written into the Australian Constitution. They are to be found in section 80, which provides for jury trials; section 116, which prevents the Commonwealth from enacting laws establishing religion; and section 1 1 7, which provides basically that citizens in any State should not be subject to any disqualification or discrimination which would not be equally applicable to them were they subjects of the Queen resident in such other State. Those three rights have turned out to be fairly illusory protections in the Australian Constitution. Professor Sawer writing in his book entitled  Australian Federalism in the Courts  has described section 80 regarding trial by jury as worthless in practice. We know that section 1 16 is a matter of some disputation before the court at the moment. Section 117 appears to have done precious little to secure the rights of Aboriginal citizens of Australia who happen to be resident in the States of Queensland and Western Australia and in the Northern Territory. We are therefore brought to a situation in which adopting the International Convenant on Civil and Political Rights appears to be a weak middle ground between these two extremes. I say that it is weak and I regret that, as a covenant, it is not a stronger document. If one looks at Article 4 one finds that there is one form of limitation on fundamental rights. Those rights can be abrogated provided that such measures are not inconsistent with other obligations under international law and do not involve discrimination solely on the ground of race, colour, sex, language or social origin. Article 4 states:  the State Parties to the present Covenant may take measures derogating from their obligations under the Present Covenant to the extent strictly required by the exigencies of the situation. 
There is a qualification in Article 9 which says: 
No one shall be deprived of his liberty except on such grounds and in accordance with such procedure as are established by law. 
I suppose law in the Soviet Union has a different meaning. There is a qualification in Article 12 which says: 
The above-mentioned rights shall not be subject to any restrictions except those which are provided by law, are necessary to protect national security, public order . . . public health or morals or the rights and freedoms of others, and are consistent with the other rights recognized in the present Covenant. 
There is a further qualification in Article 18 which says: 
Freedom to manifest one's religion or beliefs may be subject only to such limitations as are prescribed by law and are necessary to protect public safety, order, health, or morals or the fundamental rights and freedoms of others. 
The document in that sense is in many ways an extremely weak document. I regret that we have not sought to use the test of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms which I consider to be a much more powerful and much more appropriate document in current circumstances. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the text of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the protocols attached to it. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Appendix 1 
-I thank the Senate. The test of the bona fides of the Government in this matter will be whether we are prepared to extend the operation of this legislation to take care of State legislation, not to override State legislation, but simply to allow the Commission to pronounce upon State legislation.  Mr John  Dowd, M.P., a Liberal member of the New South Wales State Parliament and  President  of the Australian section of the International Commission of Jurists wrote to the  Sydney Morning Herald.  His letter published on 16 November 1979 said in part: 
The Australian section of the International Commission of Jurists is deeply concerned at the inadequacy of the Human Rights Commission Bill at present before the Australian Senate. 
Governments are the greatest violators of human rights and in the Australian Federal system the overwhelming majority of these violations occur under State law. 
Let me give honourable senators a few illustrations of that. Arrest without warrant is provided for in the Crimes (Powers of Arrest) Act of Victoria, section 459; in the Criminal Code of Tasmania, section 27; in the Criminal Code of Western Australia, section 5; in the Criminal Law of Queensland, section 5; in the Police Offences Act of South Australia, section 75; and in the New South Wales Crimes Act, section 352. The extraordinary business in this day and age of the imprisonment of people for being in debt is provided for in the Local and District Criminal Courts Act of South Australia, section 1 80; the Local Courts Act of Western Australia, section 130; the Debtors Act 1870 of Tasmania, section 3; and the Imprisonment of Fraudulent Debtors Act 1958 in Victoria. The reverse onus of proof is paraded through the Criminal Code of Western Australia, section 407 (c); the Criminal Law Consolidation Act of South Australia, section 172 (b); the Criminal Law of Queensland, section 425 (c). The power to interfere with the correspondence of citizens in Australia who happen to be in mental institutions- the power of a superintendent to decide that it may not be delivered to them or from them- is provided in the Mental Health Act of Western Australia, section 59 (2); the Mental Health Act of Tasmania, section 109 (2); the Mental Health Act of Victoria, section 79 (2); the Mental Health Act of South Australia, section 72 ( 1 ); and the Mental Health Act of Queensland, section 53 (2). 
People want to come into this Parliament and say that a Human Rights Commission designed  to investigate and report upon breaches of human rights should have this great swag of State legislation- I have qouted in relation to only four parts, namely, offences against Articles 9, 11, 14 and 17 of the Convention which we are now putting into this Bill- not subject to the investigation of the Commission. What sort of bona fides does this represent by a government that says that it is prepared to have a commission to investigate breaches of human rights provided the breaches of human rights are not those flagrantly, blatantly and continually undertaken under State legislation? It is for that reason that I will certainly be voting for the amendments foreshadowed by  Senator Missen  to extend the scope of the investigations of the Human Rights Commission to look at those activities undertaken by the States which constitute ongoing and flagrant breaches of human rights in Australia. I am not prepared to wear the argument that the Attorney-General puts forward in his second reading speech when he says: 
There have been suggestions that a Bill of Rights which is enforceable in the courts should be developed for Australia. There are a number of objections to such a course. First, it would have serious implications for our Federal system of government. 
I say to the Attorney-General that much as I am one who admires the federal system and federal principles, if a decision has to be made between the principles of federalism and the principles of human rights, I do not think the principles of federalism are worth a brass razoo. If that is to be used as the feeble and facile argument to say that the human rights of citizens in Australia are less important than the attachment to a political ideology regarded as federalism, it is an argument that I am not prepared to wear in any circumstances. I can assure the Attorney and members of the Government that the majority of people in the Australian community are not prepared to wear it, and if it is paraded in the Australian community as a legitimate reason for not extending the scope of this Bill it will deserve the reaction from the Australian community that certainly will be forthcoming. 
The BUI is deficient also in terms of the provisions for enforceability and it is deficient in terms of the problems which an individual citizen, unless this legislation is amended, will find in terms of establishing before the Commission his standing in order to have matters brought to attention and brought to a situation where the Commission can take some activity in that matter. The Australian Law Reform Commission in Discussion Paper No. 4 'Access to the Courts: Standing Public Interest Suits' has indicated a number of occasions where lack of standing as interpreted by the courts, or the failure of the Attorney-General to provide his fiat for suits to go on, has prevented people from taking action. On pages 9 and 10 it mentions cases concerned with the Antarctic Expedition and the tenders called for the supply of helicopters in 1961, the problems arising under the Sugar Agreement and the environmental controversies arising in 1 972 as far as Lake Pedder was concerned and in relation to the mining of recreation reserves in Queensland, where the fiat of the AttorneyGeneral was not granted. One could now add to that the failure of the Attorney-General, without explanation to this Parliament or anybody else, to grant his fiat to the Australian Conservation Foundation to pursue its interest in the Iwasaki development in Queensland. 
The Law Reform Commission has indentified why this occurs. It occurs as the Law Reform Commission says in this sentence: 
Finally, Australian Attorneys, much more than their English counterparts, are politicians first; they generally sit in Cabinet. Very often they have made their names as politicians rather than lawyers; some State Attorneys have not been qualified lawyers. 
The fact that throughout recent times we have found situations in which we have said that we have erected pieces of legislation designed to protect the public interest, and then excluded individual members of the public from pursuing that interest, is something which ought not to be tolerated and which I hope will be picked up in terms of amendments which can be made to this Bill when we get to the Committee stage. The criticism that  Senator Missen  has made in a critique which is now part of his speech in  Hansard  under the heading 'clause 16 (f): 'Enforcement of Human Rights' is an area which bears further study by all honourable senators. 
The final thing that I say on this particular point is that if one turns to the recently produced magnificent volume entitled  Freedom of Information  brought down yesterday in the Parliament, one will find on pages 60 to 62 a discussion about conclusive Ministerial certificates. One would hope one would plead with the AttorneyGeneral, that, having this report before him now and having before him a report from the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs- which seeks in terms of the Sankey judgment and other matters to argue as precisely as it can argue on those pages against the system of conclusive Ministerial certificatesunless he expects the members of the Consitutional and Legal Affairs Committee and other members of the Senate not to believe that this report is being treated with monumental contempt, he will make some sort of attempt to come to grips with the question of whether conclusive certificates, which this Committee recommends, ought to be subject to a number of qualifications and appeals which should not appear in the Freedom of Information Bill or the Archives Bill and, equally should not appear in the Human Rights Commission Bill. I appeal to the Attorney, in terms of making a response to the considered argument of the Senate Committee on the question of conclusive certificates, that he now has an opportuniy at a early stage to say whether the Senate committee, having laboured for a year and more, was in fact simply wasting its time and public money, or whether the recommendations that it has made are recommendations that the Government is prepared to consider. 
There are a couple of very quick subsidiary issues that I wish to raise. One concerns the constitutional power of the Federal Parliament to enact human rights legislation. In a speech which the former Attorney-General-  (Quorum formed)  I was saying that there was some debate as to whether the Commonwealth possesses the constitutional power to enact human rights legislation which might have any effect whatsoever upon the States. On 9 August 1976  Mr Ellicott,  the then Attorney-General, addressing the Citizens Welfare Service of Victoria, said:  my own view is in favour of each arm of government maintaining its traditional role; the Executive should make policy, the Parliament should legislate and Judges should judge. 
He went on to say: 
Leaving aside the serious doubts which I share as to the power of the Federal Parliament to legislate on the matter for the whole of Australia (there would appear to be no constitutional difficulty associated with the Commonwealth and each State legislating for Bills of Rights in their respective areas of responsibility), there are other difficulties which I see. 
With great respect to  Mr Ellicott,  I think the majority of people who write on this subject do not appear to share his particular concern in that matter. Lumb and Ryan writing in the book  Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia  make it quite clear. 
But despite the fact that Commonwealth governments have made it a practice in relation to some conventions not to use s 51 (xxix) to create intrusions into fields of State legislative authority, and have looked to the States to pass implemental legislative measures, it would seem clear that if s.51 (xxix) is to have any meaning whatsoever as an independent head of power, then it does give the Commonwealth at least some power to intrude into "State" fields, so far as this is necessary for the implementation of its foreign affairs commitments. 
Professor Sawer goes on to make the same point, saying: 
Australian governments sometimes use the Federal difficulty as an alibi for not committing the country to agreements when the government dislikes the agreement on policy grounds but does not want to say this, whether for external or internal political reasons. 
I said that I would even have the temerity once again to quote. As I say, the devil may quote scripture for his own purposes. I quote from a book of which  Mr Evans,  as he then was- now  Senator Evans-  turned out to be the editor, entitled  Labor and the Constitution,  a chapter of which I am sure  Mr Crommelin  had more hand in writing that did  Senator Evans. 
-That is why I judged it was obviously his, because he said quite clearly: 
It is now clearly beyond doubt that the external affairs power, whatever else is within its reach, extends to the domestic implementation of international treaty obligations. 
I am hopeful that the Government will also be prepared to see that taking this first step ought to lead it a little further. For instance, I would be grateful if the Attorney-General would inform me in his reply to the second reading debate whether it is the intention of the Australian Government, when proceeding to ratification, to ratify also the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political rights adopted by resolution 2200 (XXI) at the General Assembly on 16 December 1966. It provides for a human rights committee to be set up in consequence of Part IV of the covenant which appears as the Schedule to the Bill. Article 1 of the optional protocol provides: 
A State Party to the Covenant that becomes a party to the present Protocol recognises the competence of the Committee to receive and to consider communications from individuals subject to its jurisdiction, claiming to be victims of a violation by that State Party of any of the rights set forth in the Covenant. No communication shall be received by the Committee if it concerns a State Party to the Covenant which is not a party to the present Protocol. 
I seek leave to have the whole text of that Protocol incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

OPTIONAL PROTOCOL TO THE INTERNATIONAL COVENANT ON CIVIL AND POLITICAL RIGHTS 
Adopted by Resolution 2200 (XXI) of the General Assembly, 16 December 1966. 2 1 GAOR, Suppl. No. 16 (A/6316), at 59-60. 
The States Parties to the present Protocol, 
Considering that in order further to achieve the purposes of the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (hereinafter referred to as 'the Covenant') and the implementation of its provisions it would be appropriate to enable the Human 
Rights Committee set up in part IV of the Covenant (hereinafter referred to as 'the Committee') to receive and consider, as provided in the present Protocol, communications from individuals claiming to be victims of violations of any of the rights set forth in the Covenant. 
Have agreed as follows: 
Article 1. A State Party to the Covenant that becomes a parry to the present Protocol recognises the competence of the Committee to receive and consider communications from individuals subject to its jurisdiction, claiming to be victims of a violation by that State Party of any of the rights set forth in the Covenant. No communication shall be received by the Committee if it concerns a State Party to the Covenant which is not a Party to the present Protocol. 
Article 2. Subject to the provision of article 1, individuals claiming that any of their rights enumerated in the Convenant have been violated and who have exhausted all available domestic remedies may submit a written communication to the Committee for consideration. 
Article 3. The Committee shall consider inadmissible any communication under this Protocol which is anonymous, or which it considers to be an abuse of the right of submission of such communications or to be incompatible with the provisions of the Covenant. 
Article 4.- 1. Subject to the provisions of article 3, the Committee shall bring any communications submitted to it under the present Protocol to the attention of the State Party to the present Protocol alleged to be violating any provision of the Covenant. 
Within six months, the receiving State shall submit to the Committee written explanations or statements clarifying the matter and the remedy, if any, that may have been taken by that State. 
Article 5.- I. The Committee shall consider communications received under the present Protocol in the light of all written information made available to it by the individual and by the State Party concerned. 
The Committee shall not consider any communication from an individual unless it has ascertained that: 
the same matter is not being examined under another procedure of international investigation or settlement; 
the individual has exhausted all valuable domestic remedies. This shall not be the rule where the application of the remedies is unreasonably prolonged. 
The Committee shall hold closed meetings when examining communications under the present Protocol. 
The Committee shall forward its views to the State Party concerned and to the individual. 
Article 6. The Committee shall include in its annual report under Article 45 of the Covenant a summary of its activities under the present Protocol. 
Article 7. Pending the achievement of the objectives of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 concerning the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, the provisions of the present Protocol shall in no way limit the right of petition granted to these peoples by the Charter of the United Nations and other international conventions and instruments under the United Nations and its specialised agencies. 
Article 8.- 1 . The present Protocol is open for signature by any State which has signed the Covenant. 
The present Protocol is subject to ratification by any State which has ratified or acceded to the Covenant. Instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations. 
The present Protocol shall be open to accession by any State which has ratified or acceded to the Covenant. 
Accession shall be effected by the deposit of an instrument of accession with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. 
The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall inform all States which have signed the present Protocol or acceded to it of the deposit of each instrument of ratification or accession. 
Article 9.- 1. Subject to the entry into force of the Covenant, the present Protocol shall enter into force three months after the date of the deposit with the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations of the tenth instrument of ratification or instrument of accession. 
For each State ratifying the present Protocol or acceding to it after the deposit of the tenth instrument of ratification or instrument of accession, the present Protocol shall enter into force three months after the date of the deposit of its own instrument of ratification or instrument of accession. 
Article 10. The provision of the present Protocol shall extend to all parts of federal States without any limitations or exceptions. 
Article 1 1 .- 1 . Any State Party to the present Protocol may propose an amendment and file it with the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations. The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall thereupon communicate any proposed amendments to the States Parties to the present Protocol with a request that they notify him whether they favour a conference of States Parties for the purpose of considering and voting upon the proposal. In the event that at least one third of the State Parties favours such a conference the Secretary-General of the United Nations shall convene the conference under the auspices of the United Nations. Any amendment adopted by a majority of the States Parties present and voting at the conference shall be submitted to the General Assembly of the United Nations for approval. 
Amendments shall come into force when they have been approved by the General Assembly and accepted by a two-thirds majority of the States Parties to the present Protocol in accordance with their respective constitutional processes. 
When amendments come into force they shall be binding on those States Parties which have accepted them, other States Parties being still bound by the provisions of the present Protocol and any earlier amendment which they have accepted. 
Article 12.- 1. Any State Party may denounce the present Protocol at any time by written notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Denunciation shall take effect three months after the date of receipt of the notification by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. 
Denunciation shall be without prejudice to the continued application of the provisions of the present Protocol to any communication submitted under article 2 before the effective date of denunciation. 
Article 13. Irrespective of the notifications made under article 8, paragraph 5, of the present Protocol, the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations shall inform all States referred to in article 48, paragraph 1, of the Covenant of the following particulars: 
Signatures, ratifications and accessions under article 8; 
The date of the entry into force of the present Protocol under article 9 and the date of the entry into force of any amendments under article 1 1; 
Denunciations under article 12. 
Article 14.- 1. The present Protocol, of which the Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited in the archives of the United Nations. 
The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall transmit certified copies of the present Protocol to all States referred to in article 48 of the Covenant. 
-Article 50 of the present Covenant extends the obligation to all parts of federal States once this convention is ratified. It reads: 
The provisions of the present Covenant shall extend to all parts of federal States without any limitations or exceptions. 
I wonder whether the Government will have the courage also to ratify the optional protocol which it seems to me would allow individuals to appeal to the human rights committee set up as a consequence of Part IV of the principal Covenant in order to receive complaints from individuals about acts of discrimination by State parties which take place as far as they are concerned. I say that there is a demonstrable need for the legal protection of human rights which are all too subject to the whim of the majority of the day, to the most base and ignorant predjuices of the day and the situations where minorities receive as limited an amount of protection from majorities as can possibly be eked out by the inadequate measures that we have at the moment. That is not satisfactory. The present reliance upon the common law is increasingly irrelevant and inadequate. I dislike Bills of rights as a fundamental solution to this matter. I believe that this is a first step in a long journey in which we will still have a great road to travel to provide proper protection of civil liberties. This could be better legislation if the amendments, particularly those circulated by my colleague,  Senator Missen,  were agreed to. I am still undecided on the question of the second reading of the Racial Distrimination Amendment Bill and I am waiting to be persuaded by spokesmen for the Government's point of view about the validity of that piece of legislation. 
Finally I say that this Parliament has no role which is legitimate if it is not the role of protecting the rights of individuals and representing them. It has no role unless it, as the sole possessor of the legitimate means of coercion in the State, is prepared to use those means not to coerce but to protect. It has no more important role than the role that it plays in debating legislation like human rights and racial discrimination legislation. 
-It means that the Parliament has a genuine role to play in these things and not a one-off bleeding heart headline grabbing role which anybody can get with a quick resignation at any time. This is something that requires serious consideration by the Parliament. While I am prepared to vote and work for those amendments which have been put forward to attempt to strengthen this piece of legislation, if they are not successful I will nevertheless give my support to the legislation. I believe that it is a first step which governments, as they progressively realise their responsibilities and as they change to get themselves more and more into line with the views that the majority of the people in this community hold, will be able to build upon this piece of legislation to ensure that the protection of human rights and civil liberties is recognised as being a significant role which the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia has to play.  (Quorum formed). 
I support the amendment that  Senator Missen  has put forward for the ratification of the Covenant at this stage. As has been rightly pointed out, the Covenant can be ratified at any stage by Executive action. Presumably that Executive action can be a qualified form of action; that is to say, the Executive can ratify this with qualifications attached. Article 4, paragraph 2 of the Covenant itself, reads: 
No derogation from articles 6, 7, 8 (paragraphs 1 and 2), 11, IS, 1 6 and 1 8 may be made under this provision. 
I am concerned that a clear statement ought to be made. If it is not a statement of intent, I would prefer a statement by way of amendment to this legislation that we intend to ratify this Covenant without any derogation from Article 50 which makes the terms and conditions of the Covenant binding upon all parts of federal states without any limitation or exception. I am concerned that the Parliament should state clearly that it believes that the convention should be ratified in an unqualified fashion, so that no attempt is made to derogate from the effect of Article 50 extending the operations or the coverage of the Covenant to all parts of the federal state. Nothing would constitute a greater betrayal, in my judgment, than to ratify this convention and at the same time seek to make some derogation from the provisions of Article 50. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in his response to the second reading debate tonight raised a number of matters which relate directly to this in terms of the way in which he structured his argument about political philosophy and the federal principle. I think we on this side of the chamber are all aware of the importance which all of us attach in varying degrees to the federal principle. This has not stopped previous governments from acting in a way that sought to override State legislation. The Commonwealth Electoral Act has been used to override legislation in Queensland and has been upheld in that regard by the High Court. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act has been used to override the New South Wales factories and shops legislation. The accession of the Commonwealth to an international obligation as far as civil aviation is concerned by the passage of the Air Navigation Act, was used by the Menzies Government to override the provisions of the New South Wales legislation in relation to the control of civil aviation. I do not think anybody would have believed that the Menzies Government was not a government which placed a high value on the concept of federation or federalism. 
If one looks at the Senate  Hansard  of 27 November 1974 one will see a second reading speech made by  Senator Cavanagh,  the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, on a Bill entitled: Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Bill 1974.  Senator Cavanagh  said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to supersede certain provisions of the laws of Queensland that discriminate against Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and deny them basic human rights.  (Quorum formed).  It will be seen on page 3191 of the Senate  Hansard of 5  December 1974 that  Senator Rae,  leading the debate for the then Opposition, recognised the import of the Bill. He said: 
The Bill with which we are concerned will override certain Queensland legislation relating to Aboriginal people in that State. 
On page 3281 of the Senate  Hansard  on 10 December 1974 it will be seen that the Bill passed through the first two stages and was read a second time without any dissent. So the parties on this side of the chamber, who then constituted the Opposition, had absolutely no problem with the federalist principle when it came to specifically overriding discriminatory laws which sought to deny human rights to Aboriginals in Queensland. I believe that the import of this matter is, as  Senator Evans  indicated, partly symbolic as well as having some statement to make. I believe that the symbolic gesture of saying that we are establishing a human rights commission and that its job is to monitor compliance with the international covenant should be followed by the third step of saying that we now ratify the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and give a clear expression of our bona fides in this matter. It is for those reasons that I support the amendment moved by  Senator Missen. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will recall that the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs presented a report to this Senate entitled 'Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders on Queensland Reserves' exactly one year ago this month. I wonder whether the Minister is in a position to advise the Senate as to the degree of consideration which has been given to that Senate Committee report and when the Senate might be able to receive a formal response from the Government on that report in line with its practice of responding to parliamentary committee reports at an early stage. 
I support the amendment. Before speaking to it, I address the issue of  Mr Grassby  by putting it in this way: I do not particularly like  Mr Grassby.  I have made that clear on past associations. I do not agree with his behaviour, whether it be in relation to  Mr Barbaro  or in relation to his visit to Plati. I have always believed that the test of principle is to be able to make judgments about the validity of an issue free from the colour of personality which may or may not be involved. Perhaps in political life the most cynical test is the test of Cul bono. I am not interested in who personally benefits or who does not benefit from a particular action which ought to be contemplated when there is underlying that a substantial matter of principle. I hope that I do not apply the Cul bono test as the determinant of my view about these matters of principle. 
I do not know whether  Mr Grassby  's term as the Commissioner for Community Relations will be extended when it comes to its statutory end. However, if somebody else were to be appointed to that position, I must say that I think that person, if he were a person of great integrity and great capacity, probably would want to think twice about taking a position which potentially was of such subservience as these Bills, the Human Rights Commission Bill and the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill, would reduce it to. I think that failure to pass the amendment might well lead to a situation in which we will be unable to attract to the position of Commissioner for Community Relations a person of the quality and integrity that we would hope would always be holding that office. I believe that racial issues are in fact the critical human relations issues. I believe that the support which both sides of the Parliament gave to the original Racial Discrimination Act indicates that. I believe that the support given to it in its eventual form by distinguished former Liberal senators, such as the late Ivor Greenwood, and the way in which he linked the Racial Discrimination Act with the first statutory reference to the International Covenant, indicate the seriousness with which honourable senators on this side of the Parliament have regarded the problems of racial discrimination. We know that the Commissioner himself complained on page 1 of his fourth annual report- the report for 1979- in the following terms: 
It has been stressed each year that lack of resources in personnel and finance have made it impossible to make the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 and its provisions widely known and more readily accessible. 
I believe that the failure to keep the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations at the sort of level of staff, resources and respect that it occupies at the moment- in fact, not so much fail to upgrade it as positively to seek to degrade itwill make that situation considerably worse. 
I draw attention to what I believe to be the likelihood of racial issues becoming more prominent in Australia and needing greater vigilance on the part of the Government. As the Aboriginal population of Australia becomes progressively more and more educated and articulate it will find more and more that it is subject to acts of discrimination and that it is the object of positive prejudice by other Australian citizens and by governments. The fact that racial prejudice against the Aboriginal community appears to be more of an issue in recent years is quite simply because Aboriginal people have attempted in recent years to assert and claim their proper and full rights. Every time they have done so those who have existed very well for a prolonged period by keeping those original Australians in their position of subservience have attempted to adhere to standards of the past, standards which I hope will become standards recognised as being of the past if human rights legislation is to work effectively. 
Appendix B on page 139 of the Commissioner's report shows that 238 of the 993 complaints that he dealt with last yearoverwhelmingly the largest number; in fact twice as large as any other individual group singled out- concerned complaints of discrimination against Aboriginals. I believe that as we bring, properly, more Indo-Chinese refugees and settlers to Australia they in turn will become the object of increasing prejudice. There will be an increasing need for us to be vigilant about protecting their rights in Australia. Last night  Senator Chipp  indicated, while reading out a list of the hatred and filth pedlars in this community, that there are groups at work in the community and throughout the political framework whose objective is simply to promote racial hatred and racial prejudice. The exposure of these groups and the exposure of the points of view that they represent is an important responsibility for the Commissioner for Community Relations to report to the Parliament. Under the amendments proposed at the moment he will not have the facility to report directly to the Parliament. If he is a member of the Human Rights Commission I hope that he will get through that body more easy access to reporting to the Parliament. If we are not vigilant about the League of Rights and all the claptrap that goes on from that sort of organisation we will be failing to meet a significant responsibility that we have not only to today's Australian community but also to communities of the future. 
As economic problems continue and in some areas increase one of the surest things that one can expect is that migrant Australians will become the first target of the frustration at the failures of the economic system. The Commissioner, at chapter 9 of his report, which is headed Discrimination in Employment', says: 
Australia has proportionately the largest overseas-born workforce in the world outside of Israel. There are serious grounds for concern in the present economic situation that community relations in Australia will come under severe strain with continued high unemployment. 
If honourable senators look at the figures in Appendix B as to why the Polish communities, for instance, should be singled out for discrimination they will see the extent to which that is economically based. When  Senator Missen  spoke in this place on 8 November he had incorporated in  Hansard  a critique which he had made of this piece of legislation. It is to be found on page 2105 of  Hansard.  I direct the attention of honourable senators to those criticisms- the criticism that the Commissioner is placed under the control of the Human Rights Commission, that complaints will not be as easily handled by the Commissioner in the future, that he will be subject to directions that his access to staff will be reduced, that his report to Parliament will disappear and that his role in promoting an understanding and a public awareness of racial discrimination matters will also disappear. 
The matter seems to me to be quite simple. The problem is that the personal views of many honourable senators on this side of the chamber about  Mr Grassby,  some of which I may share, are clouding the issue as a matter of principle. The matter of principle ought to be decided in isolation from the position of A. J. Grassby. He is, I trust, a transitory phenomenon in a personal sense, but the office that he represents and the job that he has to do is no transitory phenomenon. It is an integral part of the future development of a decent and civilised Australian community. To bring about a situation in which a Commissioner for Community Relations whose prinicipal job will be to warn Australia about and to monitor in Australia the activities of those who would promote racial hatred and division in this country is a matter that requires attention. 
Every day of every week the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  considers the issuing of deportation orders against people who come to this country and seek to stir up racial hatred and racial opposition. As often as he can and, I take it, with the support of all members of this Parliament, a large number of those deportation orders are put into effect. He is aware, this Government is aware and the Labor Government was aware of the necessity to ensure that racial discrimination in Australia is treated as the sort of community disease that it is and that actions are taken in order to prevent the spread of the disease and to excise the cancer of the disease whenever that is possible. As we are to have a situation in which race relations in Australia will be severely strained not only, as I have said, by the increasing education of the Aboriginal population but also by the increasing number of Vietnamese refugees and the increasing tensions in the employment situation in this country, the Commissioner for Community Relations ought to be one of the members of the Human Rights Commission, one among many and an equal among many. The role that he will have to play, acting through that Commission, will be an important role and should have the wholehearted support of all members of the Commonwealth Parliament. 
I rise to support the Australian National University Amendment Bill 1979 and the associated measure, the Canberra College of Advanced Education Amendment Bill 1979. As has been said, the Australian National University Amendment Bill has had a reasonably rocky passage. A Bill of the same title, first introduced on 21 November 1978, was withdrawn on 25 October this year to make room for this particular Bill, which comes before us with some provisions different from those in the earlier Bill to which I will refer in a few moments. However, in making his speech the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  at one point claimed that this Bill was opposed by the majority of people affected by it. He then went on to discuss the attitude of the Australian National University Council. However, the majority of people affected by this Bill are the students on the campus of the Australian National University. 
The legislation is about the rights of the students on the campus at the Australian National University in regard to the compulsory membership of student organisations and the attitude that the University was previously prepared to adopt- of denying students entry to the University, preventing them from sitting for examinations and denying them their examination results on no other test than that they had failed to become members of a student organisation. That is one of the matters to which this Bill goes. They are the majority of people affected by the provisions of this legislation on whose behalf and for whose protection from strong arm tactics by the University and its Council this legislation has been introduced. 
There are a number of other things carried out in this legislation, apart from those matters which relate to student organisations. They involve the changing of the structure of the academic boards of the School of General Studies and of the Institute of Advanced Studies. The name of the School of General Studies is to be changed to Faculties in the School of General Studies and there will be amendments to the financial provision in the Act to bring them into line with current Commonwealth provisions. Those matters are certainly not opposed in any way by the University. Indeed, a Press statement issued by the Vice-Chancellor on 25 October makes that abundantly clear. The policy on the control of student organisations and the question of the compulsory membership of student and other organisation has been a clear plank of the Government parties for a considerable time. When elected both in 1975 and 1977, there was no doubt in the mind of anybody who cared to investigate the matter that the Government parties were opposed to the principles of compulsory unionism and would seek where possible to bring about a situation in which membership of any such organisations was entirely voluntary. This Bill is a step in that direction, taken in relation to a body for which this Parliament has ultimate legislative responsibility and authority. I, for one, hope that the principle established in this regard is a principle that will find its way into other pieces of legislation in due course. 
I wish to raise two matters concerning the differences between this Bill and the Bill which was introduced on 24 November. In the previous Bill there was a provision in proposed new section 29a (3) that organisations on campus, in order to be eligible for support out of moneys collected by way of fees, should be only those in which, at their last election for office bearers, the percentage of students electing office bearers was not less than 25 per cent. That rule which, as  Senator Wriedt  indicated, was one of the matters that concerned the Government members who had the responsibility for examining this legislation, was believed to be somewhat impractical and does not reappear in the new legislation. 
The previous total prohibition on the payment of moneys to national student organisations- I should perhaps say supra-campus organisations- which originally was proposed in the old Bill in proposed new section 29A (6) (b), has now been replaced in the current Bill by proposed new section 29a (4) which, as honourable senators can see, allows payment to be made to national student organisations which fulfil certain criteria and which are essentially those that are providing services and amenities, those services and amenities being services and amenities which are of direct benefit to the University. Even when an organisation represents or claims to represent students at tertiary education institutions, there are three provisions to allow the Council of the University to see that compulsorily collected fees are available to them. Those objects listed in the sub-clause are: 'Encouraging sporting or other recreational activities amongst students or students and other persons'; 'promoting the interests of students, or students and other persons in some particular educational, social or cultural field '-which one would have thought was a fairly broad sweep; or 'promoting the interests of post-graduate students, or a class of post-graduate students, at tertiary education institutions '. 
The important thing, in my view, is not the provisions which may or may not relate to the Australian Union of Students, but the question about whether membership of student organisations is to be compulsory. Proposed new section 32a provides that admission of a person to, or enrolment of a person at, the university as a student shall not be refused on the grounds that he has refused or failed to make application to become a member of an organisation of students, or of students and other persons; that his position at the University shall not be terminated or suspended on that ground; and that no discrimination based on the failure to become a member, or termination of membership, of an organisation of students shall be allowed to interfere with his admission to or continuation in any course of study or instruction, the conferring of a degree, diploma or certificate of the University or the enjoyment of any benefit, advantage or privilege in relation to the University. It will be interesting to invite honourable senators opposite to indicate whether they believe that the University is justified in any way in refusing to a student the details of the results of his examination simply by virtue of the fact that he fails to become a member of a student organisation. 
The attitude which the University adopted was not only immoral but also intellectually dishonest and certainly dictatorial. The University, having shown no willingness on its own part to come to grips with that attitude, and clearly not being prepared to remove this burden from students, finds that the Government will remove this burden from students. That is the purpose of the Government in this part of the legislation. In the annual report of the Australian National University, which was presented only the other day to the Parliament, the following comment on this legislation is to be found: 
The University is dismayed at this - 
That being this Bill- proceeding not only because of the absence of consultation on this point . . . 
That is a point that the Council of the ANU has raised on previous occasions- it raised it in the  Canberra Times  on 8 May 1979- and it indicates the extent to which the University Council, in my judgment, ought to be maintaining certain higher standards in terms of the accuracy of the statements it makes publicly. I refer honourable senators to a question asked in the Senate on 8 May 1979 by  Senator Knight.  He asked  Senator Carrick,  as Minister for Education, what degree of consultation had taken place.  Senator Carrick  said this: 
Let me simply say at the outset that upon reading that report - 
That was the newspaper report- this morning I could only hope that it was not a complete report of the information handed out by the Australian National University. If it is, it is a gross distortion of what has happened. I think that the matter should be put right. From reading that article this morning, one would believe that there was an exchange of letters and no consultation at all. One would never know that subsequent to the writing of the letter to me by the Chancellor I received the Chancellor and three of his councillors in a very lengthy discussion. I was able, I believe, to assure the Chancellor that there had been very frequent discussions on this matter. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I draw his attention to an announcement made last week by the  Deputy  Prime Minister to the effect that Australia might be prepared to send military forces to Zimbabwe as part of a Commonwealth effort to aid the peace settlement there and that it will take other steps to facilitate the sending of other Commonwealth troops to the region. Does the Minister recall that this is now the second commitment to send troops, if required, to Southern Africa, the other case involving the United Nations proposal for a peace-keeping force in Namibia? Does the Minister recall telling me on 2 1 August that he would seek to facilitate a debate in this chamber on the issue of Namibia? Does he accept that Australian forces should not be sent overseas where lives may be in jeopardy without the issues involved being fully debated by both Houses of the national Parliament, something which the Government has failed to facilitate in this chamber? Are the issues of Australian overseas military involvement and peace in South Africa regarded as not important enough to warrant debate in the Senate or as too important? 
I wish very briefly to indicate my support for the amendment which  Senator Missen  has moved. I said, I hope fairly clearly, during my speech at the second reading stage, that I believed that failure to extend the power of the Human Rights Commission to examine matters under State law was an unnecessary weakening of the effective role that the Commission could play in the protection of human rights in Australia. I drew attention to an impressive letter that appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 16 October 1979 from  Mr John  Dowd, M.P., a member of the New South Wales Parliament, who is  President  of the Australian Section of the International Commission of Jurists. In his letter he stated: 
Governments are the greatest violators of human rights and in the Australian federal system the overwhelming majority of these violations occur under State law. 
The proposed Commission is limited to Commonwealth laws, and indeed excludes, unless the responsible Minister refers it, all proposed legislation. Conciliation, a useful technique in the discrimination context, is an inadequate tool to deal with rights such as those of an accused person on arrest, or matters such as the death penalty, to name but two of the matters covered by the Covenant. 
I agree very strongly with those comments. My views on that matter were reinforced in a document which I received today, which was prepared by the office of the Commisioner for Community Relations under the Racial Discrimination Act 1975. It is entitled: 'Queensland Aboriginal Reserves Policies, Administration and Discrimination'. In that document the Commissioner referring to the practices of the Queensland Government, says in part: 
The powers of the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement and of Community Councils- which are merely fronts for many administrative decisions and actions- are destructive of communities in that they allow the removal of people from reserves often for minor reasons. The impression is gained that segregation and protection are still current practices. 
Without full consultation and full knowledge and understanding of administration and operations on reserves, Community Councils can only be regarded as fronts for achieving goals which appear alien to the enjoyment of fundamental freedoms and human rights. 
Frankly, if the Human Rights Commission is to have any validity I think it should have the power to inquire into breaches of human rights which takes place under State jurisdiction. It is no more than that; it is not an enforcement mechanism or anything else, but an ability to make an inquiry, an ability to draw these matters to the attention of the Federal Parliament and the people of Australia. It is for those reasons that I support the amendment moved by  Senator Missen. 
-I refer the Minister for Education to a recent publication by the Schools Commission entitled 'Australian Students and their Schools', for which publication I congratulate him. Does that report show, in part, that about one student in eight may be losing a day's schooling each fortnight through illness; that one-third of school children aged five to 14 years are taking some form of medication, most of it not prescribed medication; and that almost one in four of such students suffer from some form of chronic illness? Is the Government concerned about this evidence of fairly widespread illhealth among Australia's youngsters? Is the Department of Education giving any thought to developing programs in schools which seek to promote healthier lifestyles among the young specifically, given that we are doing that for adults, and which specifically seek to discourage young children from taking pills and other medicationa habit which if started at such a young age may prove almost impossible to break at a later stage in life and in fact may lead to long term adverse consequences? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 November 1979: 
1 ) How many of the 90 1 passengers on the cancelled voyage of the  Empress of Australia  during the period 25-29 July 1 979 were booked to travel on a pensioner concession. 
What arrangements were made to assist those passengers who were not able to obtain pensioner concessions on alternative modes of transport, once the voyage of the  Empress of Australia  was unavailable to them. 
Will the Minister, if no special arrangements were made, have this matter urgently reviewed, in view of financial pressure placed on pensioners by such an alteration of travel arrangements, and the direct responsibility of the Commonwealth in this matter. 
-I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment, absolutely without notice, what progress has been made on the upgrading of Australian legislation and Customs regulations to reflect the changes made in the appendices to the Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species which were made at meetings held in Berne in 1977 and in Costa Rica earlier this year. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask the same question as I have now asked him on three previous occasions at the end of parliamentary sessions.  Senator Missen  also has asked him the same question. The Leader will recall having indicated on three occasions that he would take steps to facilitate a debate some time in the course of the following session on the Royal Commission on Human Relationships. I now ask him for the fourth time: In the approaching session, at the commencment of 1 980, will he again take steps to facilitate such debate? 
I am grateful to my colleague,  Senator Missen,  for having had incorporated in  Hansard  a statement which sets out quite clearly the view which he,  Senator Bonner  and I came to. It is a matter upon which the Government has legitimately formed a view. The discussions that we have had with the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and with members of the Cabinet have been lengthy. They have considered our point of view but have found themselves unable to make any accommodation. That view is supported by the majority of my colleagues on this side of the chamber and in the other place. We accept that. We have taken an attitude that, in order to have a Human Rights Commission which has some power in terms of investigation and the ability to generate some publicity and some study of this matter, it is better to be in the position of having a commission- albeit a commission which we believe to be a weak one and one without the powers of enforceability- than to have nothing at all, which seems to be the alternative. 
My colleagues and I are singularly unmoved by the comments made by  Senator Evans  about what we do according to our better instincts. Our better instincts are to get some form of commission and to work at a later stage, through whatever means we can, to strengthen it in the future. Frankly, we would be more moved to pay the slightest bit of attention to  Senator Evans  if he or any of his colleagues, with the exception of a former honourable member for Batman, had the courage to stand up in his place at any time and speak contrary to the dictates imposed upon him by his Caucus, his Federal Council or anybody else. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
1 ) How many companies indicated to Project SCORE that they were performing research and development activities in the surveys conducted in 1973-74 and in 1976-77. 
How many of those companies which reported some research and development activity in 1973-74 but did not so report in 1976-77: (a) ceased, in fact, to operate entirely; (b) were Australian-controlled; and (c) were foreign-controlled. 
What is the classification each company in each of categories (2) (b) and (2) (c) above, by industrial or other sector, based upon the classifications given in the Report of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, Industrial Research and Development in Australia, pages 67-68. 
How many companies in each of categories (2)(b) and (2) (c) have (a) fewer than 10 employees; (b) between 10 and 19employees; (c) between 20 and 49 employees; (d) between 50 and 99 employees; (e ) between 100 and 1 99 employees; (f) between 200 and 499 employees; (g) between 500 and 999 employees; and ( h ) 1 ,000 employees or more. 
How many companies reported research and development activity to Project SCORE in 1976-77 and had not reported such activity in 1 973-74. 
What are the details of these companies in terms of the details requested in parts (2), (3 ) and (4) above. 
