
 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I trust that you will convey to the  President  my congratulations on his elevation to that office. I heard recently about a suburban newspaper in Melbourne- I think it was based in Caulfieldwhich was still publishing reports concerning  Mr Max  Fox and describing him as MHR for Henty. I was reminded of that story when I listened yesterday to  Senator Scott  who was referring to the revaluations of the Australian dollar which have occurred in the last 18 months as though they were some tragic aberration from the laws of economic rationality which would be put right if only the conservative political parties were in a position to reassert their Divine Right to govern. 
When one hears this sort of thing one sometimes wonders whether an announcement that Queen Victoria is dead would really be believed in some sections of this Parliament. Likewise when listening to  Senator Carrick  yesterday I realised that the ghost of David Syme still haunts this chamber. It was particularly interesting to hear  Senator Carrick  speaking in the way he did on protection and also on the subject of unity within political parties. I wondered how the modest honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  would react to  Senator Carrick  's evident views on the question of tariffs and protection, and whether there would be unity in the Liberal Party on that issue. I was, however, deeply touched by  Senator Carrick  's concern for the Australian working class and the nationalistic economic sentiments which he expressed. But what appealed most of all was his determination to protect our very own Australian motor industry and such well-known Australian firms as Leyland, General Motors, Ford and Chrysler. 
I understand that there is a somewhat loosely observed convention in this chamber that the maiden speech of a new member should contain some reference to the State which he or she represents and some reflections on a member's personal background and previous experience. I shall observe that convention. 
I am, or I suppose more correctly I was, a farmer and I have been for the last 25 years. I was catapulted, somewhat unexpectedly, into this Senate by the ill-considered decision of the Opposition to force a double election for the Parliament on 18 May, and I represent the State of Western Australia. The Premier of Western Australia, to the best of my knowledge, has the distinction of being the original slow learner in the field of interpreting and evaluating election results. According to the Premier of my State and I remind honourable senators who are not terribly familiar with the election result in Western Australia- in that State the Labor Party increased its representation to both the House of Representatives and in the Senate. According to  Sir Charles  Court the result of that election constituted a 'stern rebuff' for the Whitlam Government. It is regrettable that  Sir Charles  Court's post-election trip into the realm of fantasy, was not an isolated deviation, but is consistent with the long-standing and widespread propensity within the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party to stand truth on its head. It was a product of precisely the same sort of perverted logic which compels the conservative parties to insist that an electoral system- such as that used in Western Australia and under which the votes of some Western Australians have 15 times the value of other Western Australians- is democratic. Perverted logic also enables conservatives to pose as champions of civil liberty and individual freedom while simultaneously voting for conscription, sometimes with enthusiasm and apparently without embarrassment. 
Predictably I have a particular interest in rural issues and a special interest in agriculture. I want to place on record in unequivocal terms that I support the agricultural policies of the Whitlam Government. Indeed I have argued strenuously for many years inside the Labor Party and inside farmers organisations for the adoption of that sort of rational economic approach. 
According to the conventional wisdom of the Country Party only farmers with sunburnt faces and dirt under their fingernails are properly qualified to understand the complexities of rural policy making. That belief was epitomised in the slogan which the Country Party used for many years when it was in power, the slogan that it was just 'waiting for the industry to tell us what to do'. The Labor Party, the conventional wisdom asserts, has very few people who are properly qualified to speak on agricultural issues. Be that as it may, the Labor Party now has one more. I think I can justly claim to possess all the attributes so much admired by our agricultural fundamentalists except, hopefully, the intellectual atrophy of which the Country Party is both a product and a cause. 
Ironically most of the people who expound the puerile line that only farmers understand agriculture have not actually been farmers for a very long time. The whole exercise is nothing more than an attempt to ingratiate themselves with their own supporters- once again epitomised by the slogan 'we are waiting for the industry to tell us what to do'- and to conceal their own often profound misunderstanding or even ignorance of the very areas in which they claim to have special expertise. 
It is not possible to canvass the whole area of agricultural policy or even of recent decisions. I propose to comment briefly on a few aspects of the report of the working group on rural policy or, as it is more commonly known, the Green Paper, and on the 1973 Budget. When the Green Paper was released some 3 or 4 weeks ago the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party in the other place  (Mr Sinclair)  asserted that nearly all its guidelines were acceptable to the Opposition but predicted that very few, if any, would be acceptable to the Labor Party. 
Since that very ill-considered statement, someone from the Country Party has not only read the report but evidently grasped its implications. Hence we find that  Mr Anthony,  the Leader of the Country Party in this Parliament, is reported in the 'West Australian' on 8 July- that is, last Monday- as describing the Green Paper as a cover-up by the Government to conceal the damage that it has done to rural industry. The alleged damage was not specified- at least, not in the report which I read. 
I have noted from looking at some statistics this morning that gross and net farm incomes have reached an all time record high level this year and that net farm income has risen by almost 300 per cent on what it was 3 years ago. By contrast I remember that in 1969, as the Country Party was nearing the end of its 23-year reign in Parliament, no less an authority than its then Leader,  Sir John  McEwen, observed that Australian agriculture was facing its darkest hour since the depression of the 1930s'. 
It is, of course, true that the unprecedented prosperity of Australian farmers is due to a variety of factors, most of which are beyond the control of any Australian government; but it is equally true that the depression which marked the end of the Country Party's long reign was substantially attributable to that Party's passion for treating symptoms instead of causes and consistently ignoring economic realities, thereby aggravating long term problems. 
Referring to the Green Paper, it is encouraging to note such a healthy divergence of opinion within the Country Party as exists between its Leader and  Deputy  Leader on this subject. On the one hand, its Leader,  Mr Anthony,  says in effect that the Green Paper sets out to tip a bucket of whitewash over the Labor Party's policy record. On the other hand, the  Deputy  Leader,  Mr Sinclair,  says in effect that the Green Paper tips a bucket of scorn over the Labor Government's record in agriculture. Both of those contradictory versions, however, are wrong, whilst it does not endorse every detail of the policy record of the Whitlam Government or the things it has done or not done, the Green Paper, without any reasonable doubt, endorses the broad thrust of Labor's program. It could not do otherwise since it was prepared and written by rational and humane economists. It recognises that the twin desirable goals of human welfare and economic efficiency are often in conflict and that a final policy is most likely to incorporate a sensible compromise between the two. It recognises quite explicitly, in chapter V paragraph 48, that previous across the board subsidies and tax concessions have been 'in conflict with both efficiency and welfare criteria'. The low income farmer, who is usually but not invariably the small farmer, receives very little assistance from such measures, even though he is commonly used as human propaganda to justify or provide a rationale for massive handouts to the large wealthy farmers who effectively control the Country Party machine. 
As  Dr Schapper  a fairly well known agricultural economist from the University of Western Australia, quantified and pointed out some years ago, the distribution of agricultural subsidies in Australia by income categories- the figures referred to the year 1966 but have not changed substantially since or up till 1973 at least- is as follows: The 15 per cent of farmers who in 1966 had net farm incomes of zero or below received 2 per cent of the total subsidy payment; on the other hand, the 1 5 per cent of farmers at the top of the income scale, on net incomes in excess of $ 1 0,000, received 47 per cent of the total subsidy payment. The Green Paper has quantified subsidy distributions in more recent years. Here I am using round figures from Table 6. 1 of the Green Paper. In the wheat industry for the years 1969-70 to 1971-72- that is, taking an average for those 3 years- the 22 per cent of wheat growers with net farm incomes below $2,000 received 10 per cent of the subsidy and the 23 per cent of wheat farmers with net farm incomes above $10,000 received 44 per cent of the subsidy. So, taking a comparable percentage of farmers in each category, the wealthy have received more than 4 times as much as those who are genuinely in need. 
The Green Paper also recognises that on occasions there can be a case on both economic and welfare grounds for financial support from governments to an industry. It explicitly states in chapter III paragraphs 79 and 1 1 1 that such assistance should be counter-cyclical; in other words, governments should provide assistance for industries which are temporarily depressed and withdraw such assistance when they are prosperous. I need hardly emphasise that that is exactly what the Whitlam Government has done during its first 1 8 months in office. Those sectors of agriculture which are still depressed and which because of their comparative disadvantages are likely to remain, at least at the margins, depressed- the dairy industry and the fruit industry- are still receiving special assistance. In the case of the other industries- the meat industry, the grain growing industry and the wool industry, which are in no need of assistance and which have made the major contribution to the massive increase in net farm incomes that has been recorded in the last couple of years- assistance has been substantially withdrawn. 
On pure and simple welfare issues the Green Paper states what even blind Freddie should always have known, namely, that a welfare policy is most effectively directed at incomes and not at bounties or subsidies on production. For those who still insist that the revaluations of the last 18 months were anti-social, I recommend a study of chapter III, paragraphs 52 and 53, of the Green Paper or a study of the writings and comments of just about every economist in Australia over the last 2 or 3 years. 
I was interested to see that the issue of the superphosphate subsidy was raised during question time this morning. I intend to quote from chapter (V), paragraph 46, of this Green Paper report. It states: 
If the problem is that the input's price is rising, i.e. it is becoming scarcer, a subsidy encourages freer use of a commodity that the market suggests should be used more economically. Moreover, it discourages research into methods of substituting for the input or for using it more efficiently and discourages the adoption of management practices which economise in its use. 
Those honourable senators who heard the reply of the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  this morning to the question on superphosphate should have grasped that the quotation I have just read, and the Minister's comments in reply to the question, fit very neatly the current position in regard to superphosphate. Although there is no shortage of phosphates in the absolute sense, there is a rapidly developing shortage of high quality material which is accessible for export or for processing. It was implied this morning, and it has been explicitly stated by the Premier of Western Australia, that in this sort of situation the Commonwealth Government should step in to encourage the wasteful usage of a commodity which is becoming scarcer and more expensive. I will back up my comments on wasteful usage of superphosphate with a little technical information. For example, it is common practice in Western Australia to pre-spread superphosphate on land just about to be cropped with cereals. There is, and has been for many years, quite decisive evidence from the local Department of Agriculture that superphosphate used in that way is about half as effective as superphosphate which is drilled with the seed. But, of course, while superphosphate virtually is given away, even though it is a scarce resource which is becoming scarcer and more expensive, farmers are encouraged to use it in ways which are technically and economically inefficient. 
I turn to the question of tariffs. Probably, the section of the report dealing with tariffs has received more publicity already than any other section of the Green Paper report. Paragraph 64 of chapter (iti) of the report recognises that a case can be made for the payment of some sort of tariff compensation to industries which are exporters. Incidentally, in case anyone confuses that sort of more or less rational economist's approach with the practices which have been followed in Australia for the past couple of decades, I point out that a subsidy is paid to an export industry because it suffers a comparative disadvantage by reason of the fact that it is an export industry and because we live within a protected economy. However, that has not been the practice with agricultural subsidies in Australia over the last couple of decades. The major exporting industries have been the grazing industries- the meat and wool industries in particular- and the wheat industry. The wheat industry has received moderate levels of protection or compensation, if we want to view the question within that framework. The grazing industries, until the last couple of years, have received virtually nothing. On the other hand, agricultural industries which are substantially import replacement industries rather than export industries have received the highest levels of protection. If that sort of subsidy is to be rationalised on the ground of tariff compensation, it does not make economic sense. I return to the report. It recognises that under some conditions a case can be made out for a tariff compensatory subsidy or some other sort of tariff compensation assistance. But, so far the fine print or the very fine qualifications appear to have been ignored. The first qualification is the strong recommendation that any such assistance should be counter-cyclable. I mentioned this before. This means that some assistance might be provided when prices were depressed but it would be cut off when prices increased. A second qualification is that such protection should be subject to the elasticity of demand for a particular commodity being sufficiently high. In other words, we would want to make sure that we were not in the sort of marketing situation in which increased production for any commodity would substantially reduce prices. 
According to the Green Paper, this could very well happen in the wool industry. Incidentally, that is in direct conflict with what used to be the conventional wisdom of the conservative political parties. I do not know whether this is still the case, but the conventional wisdom of the conservative political parties used to state that if wool production increased, prices would rise. That piece of profound economic insight was described by Professor Lloyd, Professor of Agricultural Economics at Melbourne University, as a view which displayed - I think I am quoting him correctly- a profound ignorance of the process of price formation and evidence of- I am certain that I am quoting this part correctly; I will give the reference later to anyone who may require it so that it can be checked- 'widespread economic illiteracy in influential circles'. 
I wish to deal further with the tariff cuts. It is explicitly stated in paragraph 63 of chapter HI of the report that some sort of tariff compensation policy for export industries should be considered, at most, a second-best solution. Judging from the remarks made yesterday by  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Webster,  they seem to think that the thing to do is to jack up tariffs on the manufacturing sector so that a rationale is provided for jacking up tariffs on every other sector as well. 
The 1973 Federal Budget was described at the time of its presentation and almost incessantly since by various Country Party spokesmen, and especially by the Leader of that Party, as a savage attack upon the farmers and vicious blow aimed at the rural sector. It was described as being centralist, socialist, bureaucratic and so on ad infinitum. 
If we look behind this facade of inflammatory and irresponsible rhetoric, what do we find? We find that, in fact, the dominant theme of that Budget, at least as it affected rural industries, was to hand back to the market place, back to the market price mechanism, a substantial degree of control over the allocation of productive resources and of input and output mixes. Ironically, that theme which was so hysterically criticised by our opponents in the Parliament and their lackeys outside it constituted the antithesis of socialism, centralism and bureacratic control. It is near tragic that the self-professed partisans of a market economy and a free enterprise system who face us across the Senate chamber- I refer also to those outside the Parliament and to those in State Parliaments- seem to be completely unable to grasp the crucial role of a pricing system in a market economy. So often it seems that the only people who fully comprehend the internal logic of a capitalist system are socialists, although I concede that there are a few notable exceptions. I have read the speeches of some of them in the journals of the Senate. I do not know whether the ability to see into the heart of a capitalist system is a cause or an effect of a person having socialist political beliefs. 
I now wish to speak briefly on tax concessions for investment, or investment incentives as they are usually euphemistically named. Unless the rationale for these investment incentives is to provide a concession to individuals, which is regressive- in other words, in proportion to the marginal rate of taxation paid, so that those with the highest incomes get the greatest net benefit and those with the lowest incomes get the lowest net benefit- the only remaining rationale is an assumption that governments are better able than private investors or business managers to decide into which areas or which economic sectors investment funds should be directed and allocated. If that is the rationale for investment incentives I would like to place before the House the simple fact that it is also a rationale for a centrally planned economy since both presuppose that governments are better able than private investors or business managers to make sensible decisions in that area or, as the right wing rural propagandists would say, a rationale for the collectivisation of agriculture. I am neither for nor against government intervention in the economy per se. But I think that we must insist that the objectives behind such intervention be clearly defined ana that the policies as they finally emerge are compatible with the clearly defined objectives. Such has not been the case in the past. 
Finally, reverting to what I was saying a few minutes ago, may I commend the informed and responsible minority in the Liberal Party which realises that the things I have been saying are true- the informed and responsible minority which realised in 1971 that a revaluation of the Australian dollar was desirable and inevitable. That minority has always known that the agricultural policies which its Party implemented when in government, woven as they were from a mixture of romanticism, economic illiteracy and Country Party pork-barrelling, would at best be ineffective and at worst counter-productive. I wish those members well in their future endeavours because theirs is a difficult task. 
I have a question for the Attorney-General. It refers to people standing for elections who purport to represent a particular Party and who, upon being elected, repudiate that Party and claim to represent some other Party, as National Alliance candidates in Western Australia have done. Can any action be taken under the existing Commonwealth Electoral Act to prevent candidates from wearing false political labels when contesting an election? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. The State Government of Western Australia has attacked the Australian Government because the latter has declined to release $2. 3m to irrigate more land on the Ord River for fattening cattle. The State Government has described the project as a new viable industry. Is there any evidence to support the assertion that the project is viable? If not, would an allocation of funds constitute a prime example of irresponsible government spending to which the Liberal and Country Parties are ostensibly opposed? If the Western Australian Government wants a beef industry on the Ord, could it be established on existing cotton growing areas, thereby saving scarce capital and easing the burden on the State Treasury which has previously subsidised cotton production by up to $20,000 per grower in one year? 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, refers to the Chief Electoral Officer's rebuke published on 20 July to the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate concerning  Senator Withers'  innuendos in this chamber last week which reflected upon the diligence and/or honesty of electoral officers in the Division of 
Stirling in Western Australia. I ask: Will the Leader of the Government again invite  Senator Withers  to withdraw and apologise for his scurrilous allegations? If  Senator Withers  again declines to withdraw will the Leader of the Government consider moving, at an appropriate time, a motion to dissociate the Government from the Opposition Leader's deplorable imputations and also provide honourable senators in the Opposition with an opportunity to repudiate their Leader's slanders? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Agriculture. When can we expect to receive the report on the wood chip industry which is being prepared by a specialist working party? Is the report overdue? 
-Has the Minister for Agriculture seen a recent issue of the 'Farmers Weekly', the Western Australian Farmers Union newspaper, reporting that  Mr Sinclair,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, is claiming that the latest rise in interest rates was an act of vandalism- whatever that meansagainst the rural sector? Was the rural industry singled out for higher interest charges? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister refers to the question which was just asked by  Senator Greenwood  and the earlier question asked by  Senator Withers,  both of which concerned the petroleum products freight subsidy scheme. I ask: Is it correct that between 1954 and 1971, under the previous LiberalCountry Party Government and a proliferation of allegedly decentralist policies, the proportion of the population living in rural areas fell from 31 per cent to 14 per cent? Does the Minister know that the Green Paper on Rural Policy- and I refer his attention particularly to paragraphs 141, 150 and 152 of chapter 9- explains very lucidly why across the board pseudo decentralisation gimmicks like the petroleum products subsidy scheme are ill-conceived and ineffective? Does he agree that the view to which  Senator Withers  and  Senator Greenwood  still stubbonly adhere is conceptually suspect and thoroughly discredited by the empirical evidence. 
My question refers to statements made recently by  Mr Jack  Hallett, former member of the House of Representatives for the electorate of Canning, at the Western Australian Country Party conference.  Mr Hallett,  who was a Country Party member of the House of Representatives, described  Sir Charles  Court, the Liberal Party Premier of Western Australia, as a hypocrite and attacked the Liberal Party for its support of the Industries Assistance Commission legislation. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
What were the prices at which the British Phosphate Commission supplied comparable phosphate rock and sulphur to fertilizer manufacturers in each Australian State and New Zealand (a) before the end of June 1974 and (b) after the end of June 1974. 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral: How many young Australian men were imprisoned by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government under the provisions of the National Service Act 1964 because of their refusal to be conscripted? At any stage did any of the 2 1 sitting Liberal or Country Party senators prior to December 1972 protest at this abrogation of individual liberty, or move to suspend the Act? Did any Liberal or Country Party senator elected since 1972 make any similar protest? If not, can the Attorney-General explain why Liberal and Country Party senators who showed no interest in protecting the liberty of young Australians have suddenly developed a passionate interest in the very dubious allegation that the liberty of one Russian youth may be in jeopardy? 
It seems that there are 3 major issues or 3 strands in the dispute between the Government and the Opposition in this debate. They could be put under these headings- I use the Opposition's highly emotive and rather meaningless term- of centralism, the aggregate level of Commonwealth funding for road expenditure, and the distribution of that aggregate level of funds between various States and various categories of roads. On the issue of centralism my colleague,  Senator Devitt,  has already exposed the Opposition's argument by quoting the statement of the Minister for Transport (  Mr Jones)  who referred to many of the charges and allegations that have been made by members of the Opposition that the Government in Canberra is going to scrutinise in the most minute detail the expenditure on every road work which is to be conducted by local government authorities at places such as Nullagine or Marble Bar. My colleague has already dealt with that and shown that it simply is not true. On the broader issue of what the Opposition likes to call centralism- that is, whether we should have a national roads system which is nationally planned- I think perhaps I could do no better than to quote from the Minister's second reading speech to the Bill which established the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads in 1964. The second reading speech of the then Minister for Transport,  Mr Gordon  Freeth, is reported in Hansard on 20 May 1964. On the problem of assessing road priorities within Australia  Mr Freeth  said: 
We have official statistics and we obtain the views and assessments of the States. Inevitably, however, this falls short of what we require. Necessarily the views and representations put to us stress particular- and, in the nature of the case, sectional- aspects of the problem. But the Commonwealth must be in a position to make a competent and reliable appraisal of its own. It has to do this in the context of its many other responsibilities. It has to try to see the problem as a national whole and not simply as the sum of particular views of it. 
I was not here in 1964 so it may well be that the anti-centralists or self-professed pseudo anticentralists who have spoken in this debate tonight and in the other house on this Bill disagreed with  Mr Freeth  when he laid out that philosophy in quite lucid and explicit terms. If they did, I apologise to them. If they did not I ask them: What has changed between 1964 and 1974 which made the proposition that the national government should plan the national road system in 1964 a sound proposition and makes it an allegedly unsound proposition in 1974? 
I refer now to the second issue, the aggregate level of funding. We all know that it is very easy for an opposition to say that no government is providing enough funds for any particular pressure group or for any particular avenue of government expenditure in any part of Australia. It is very easy for an opposition to say that. It becomes somewhat indefensible when an opposition which has been habitually complaining that a government has been spending too much money criticises a government for allegedly spending too little in any particular area without offering alternative areas in which it suggests expenditure should be cut. Certainly the priorities of road construction as against other competing areas of government expenditure and the distribution of whatever level of road funds is finally decided involve value judgments. They involve an area within which there are quite legitimate grounds for genuine differences of opinion. That is inevitable. What is not inevitable but what has unfortunately crept into this debate tonight, into the House of Representatives debate 2 weeks ago and throughout Australia, is that the facts of the case and the statistics have either been misunderstood or deliberately misrepresented. 
There have been a number of changes in the specification of road classes and the categorisation of expenditure in this Bill vis-a-vis the legislation for the period from 1969 to 1974. Because of these changes it is not very easy to grasp the true implications and the true nature of" the comparisons between one period and the next if we feel there is any point in making such comparisons. That inherent difficulty has been compounded by the persistent attempts, knowingly or unknowingly, of the opponents of this Government to mislead the public. We have witnessed one of the most glaring examples of it tonight. I do not mean to cast any aspersions on the integrity or the intentions of  Senator Lawrie.  I am quite willing to accept- in fact, it is my firm belief- that when  Senator Lawrie  was quoting what  Mr Nixon  said he did so in good faith. I am sorry that the honourable senator is not present in the Senate chamber. If he were I would offer him this little bit of advice: Be careful when quoting members of his Party to make sure that the statements he is quoting are correct. 
The statement by  Mr Nixon  made in the House of Representatives, which was quoted by  Senator Lawrie,  concerned the allocation of funds for rural local roads.  Mr Nixon  presented a table showing that for the 3-year period $156m would be allocated. I think that figure is correct. But from that fact  Mr Nixon  drew, deliberately or otherwise, a completely erroneous conclusion that that expenditure represented a decline from the previous level of spending of $248m on rural local roads. What  Mr Nixon  conveniently overlooked, wittingly or unwittingly, was that there had been a profound change in the definition of rural local roads. Those roads which are classified class 3 and which under the previous legislation had been included in the rural local road category have been transferred under this legislation to the rural arterial road category. That accounts for the apparent difference in the figures. To show the importance of these class 3 roads, within my State of Western Australia there are some 6,000 miles of these class 3 roads which have been transferred from one category to another. I do not know what the mileage is on a national level. That is what  Mr Nixon  neglected to tell us and what  Senator Lawrie  unfortunately chose to repeat, I accept, in innocence. 
I suggest to people who want to argue- I am not suggesting that the Bill should be argued on this basis- that this Bill is not giving rural areas a fair go vis-a-vis other areas or that it is giving urban areas too much of the cake, if they want to assess the position on this petty parochial level, they should at least get their facts straight. I look now at  Senator Wright.  In fact, under the previous Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement the percentage of funds allocated for spending in rural areas represented 47 per cent of the total allocation. In this proposal, the percentage allocated for expenditure in rural areas is 61 per cent. That,  Senator Wright,  represents an extra 1 4 per cent allocated to rural areas. 
I am quoting from the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  delivered on 18 July 1974 and recorded on page 385 of Hansard. 
-I ask  Senator Wright  to correct me where I have misunderstood it.  Senator Wright,  by his silence, has tacitly acknowledged that his ignorance is profound and my understanding is at least somewhat more complete than his.  Senator Wright  has cast the wholly unwarranted aspersion that this Government has deliberately spent more on urban roads because there are more votes in urban areas. It is true that there are more votes in urban areas, but it is not true that this Government has allocated a higher percentage of the expenditure under this Bill vis-a-vis the previous Bill to urban areas. Why this Government did that is perhaps an open question. But it certainly was not a very sensible thing to do if it was trying to attract votes in the urban areas by bribing them with a greater allocation of road funds. I now refer to statements which  Senator Withers  made in opening the Opposition's argument in the debate. I may well have misunderstood what he said. 
You have not corrected me yet, have you? I understood  Senator Withers  to say that the Bunbury Council had notified him that it would require a 50 per cent increase in vehicle licence fees. 
The Council would require a 50 per cent increase in local rates to maintain the level of road expenditure. I stand corrected on that. I had understood the honourable senator to refer to vehicle licence fees. The Minister for Transport in Western Australia,  Mr O'Connor,  was quoted by  Mr Nixon,  again on 1 August in the other place, as having stated that it would be necessary to increase motor user taxation by a substantial amount of the order of 65 per cent if these Bills were passed in their present form. He did not define what he meant by motor user taxation but presumably at the very least it included vehicle licence fees and by most definitions would also include drivers licence fees- a substantial source of revenue. Either  Mr O'Connor  or  Mr Nixon  did not bother to define in any greater detail or with any greater clarity the point they were making, but I assume they were making the claim that in order to meet the matching requirements stipulated under this Bill for State Government road expenditure from their own financial resources it would be necessary to increase motor user taxation by 65 per cent. That is not true. 
-Other members of the Western Australian Government have made the statement that in order to meet the quota requirements - 
Other members of the Western Austraiian Government made the same claim previously- that in order to meet the quota requirements a 65 per cent increase was required in vehicle licence fees. The quota for Western Australia is $23.8m. The projected matching income for 1974-75 on the basis of the old charges was $ 18.8m which leaves a deficit of $5m. A 65 per cent increase in motor vehicle licence fees over a full 12-month period would produce additional revenue of the order of $10m. It is true that when the State Government made its announcement and stated its intention to increase motor vehicle licence fees by 65 per cent the proposal was that it should apply for only 9 months of this year but even on a pro rata basis there is a sum of $2'/2m in excess funds not accounted for or $2.5m over the quota. 
There is a stipulated requirement in the Bill. The quota for a State government is not subject to the inflation factor. The quota remains fixed whether there is inflation or not. When the Bill was debated in the other House  Mr Nixon  once again- and this could well be a Hansard misprint- is reported to have said that the total grant to Western Australia under the Road Grants Bill is reduced from $38.5m to $372m over the 5-year period. There is obviously something wrong there because clearly  Mr Nixon  does not believe that a grant which goes from $38.5m to $372m is a reduction. So I am not sure what he meant but the facts of the case are that - 
-The point that I am making is that there has been no reduction in the grant allocated to Western Australia in this period vis-a-vis the last 3 years of the previous road grants. 
I am sorry, I cannot find the figures that I have written down for Western Australia. I have so many papers in front of me. 
Thank you,  Mr Minister.  For Australia as a whole, contrary to what has been stated, it is proposed that total grants for the 3 years of this legislation to all the States in aggregate- including planning- will be $1,1 26m as against $870m for the last 3 years of the previous program. The $870m includes supplementary grants and beef road grants. If honourable senators like to compare the figures for 1973-74, with the current financial year of 1974-75 they will find that the allocation for all States has increased from just over $32 1 m, including grants for beef roads, to $350m. I have now found the figures for Western Australia. There is an increase of $ 13m in this 3-year period as against the last 3-year period- not a decrease as has been alleged. When this Bill was debated in the other place the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  made 2 allegations. He said: 
One must appreciate also that the base amount that was raised in Western Australia last year was $ 11.279m. The quota for Western Australia under this Bill is $23. 8m. 
The figure of $11. 279m appears to have been extracted from schedule 7 which appeared at the end of the 1969-74 Roads Grants Bill. I think it related to the basic quota requirement for the first year. In fact, the quota requirement for Western Australia last year was not $ 1 1 .279m, as  Mr Drummond  appeared to believe, but $16.5m. The actual revenue raised was $20. 8m. So the required increase in quota is not nearly of the magnitude suggested by  Mr Drummond.  He also referred to- there is probably somewhat more justification for this complaint- a complaint from the Secretary of the Local Government Association of Western Australia which had been sent to him. The Secretary, in that letter, stated:   . .the Press reports, statements by the honourable Premier of the State, indicate that the grants to Western Australia will not only not be increased out that grants are to be reduced by one-sixth. 
Now, it is quite feasible that some reports which were appearing in the Press at that time could have led  Mr White  to believe that there was to be a decrease in the grants. I do not particularly blame him for it but I would like to point out that on 14 June 1974 a Press statement was issued from the office which I share in Perth setting out the basic facts of the allocation of funds under this Bill, comparing funds allocated to urban and rural areas between the period 1972-74 and the 1974-76 period. It compared the future period with the past period and made a comparative analysis of expenditure and of the direction of expenditure. It also specified the important changes in the definition of road categories and the effect this has had on road finances. That statement was circulated to every local newspaper in Western Australia and to all rural weeklies. To the best of my knowledge, the statement was published in only one. 
It is the prerogative of a newspaper proprietor to decide what he will publish and what he will not. But if one of the reasons for existence of a rural newspaper is to pass on to rural residents information which is relevant to their interests, surely it is not too much to expect that these rural newspapers could have seen fit to publish what was just a bald statement of facts, even if it did come from what they regard as a tainted source. Had they done so, a lot of the confusion which led  Mr White  to make that incorrect assessment of the situation would not have occurred. If  Mr Drummond  has any complaints about this I suggest that his complaints should be directed towards the rural Press in Western Australia which declined to publish important information. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the number of statutory boards established by the Australian Government. 
What are the names of the persons who sit on each of these Boards. 
What salary and/or allowances and/or sitting fees are received by the members of each Board. 
asked the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What wholesale prices were charged by the Australian Canners' Association for choice grades of 'basic cartons' of (a) peaches, (b) pears and (c) apricots for sale within Australia from 1970 to 1974. 
) What, approximately, was the average freight cost per basic carton 'of canned fruit for export from 1970 to 1974. 
What minimum wholesale price, if any, is set for sales within Australia of fresh apples and pears, and by whom is it set. 
Has the Attorney-General seen recent reports which allege that some right wing groups in Australia plan to train private military forces? Is there a legal prohibition on private military training in Australia? If so, is the Australian Government able to take appropriate action to ensure that the proposed illegal military training is effectively prohibited? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Agriculture, concerns reports of unauthorised landings by Indonesian fishermen on the Western Australian coast. What action is the Government taking on this matter, particularly to prevent the risk of exotic livestock diseases being introduced into this country by fishermen who often land with livestock in their possession? 
Before dealing with the substance of this legislation I wish to make a couple of brief comments on the previous speeches. I say to  Senator Scott  that I am extremely gratified, firstly, that the Opposition as a whole is accepting these Bills without amendment, and, secondly, that he recognised quite clearly the distinct advantages which accrue to the wheat industry as a whole through having an organised marketing system, not so much in Australia as for the purposes of selling wheat abroad.  Senator Scott  recognised implicitly the very dangerous situation into which the wheat industry would degenerate if we were to have 5 separate State marketing authorities competing with each other and cutting each other's throats to secure markets abroad. It is gratifying to see that  Senator Scott  recognises this implicitly and that his colleagues in the Senate and the Parliament recognise it. Unfortunately it has not been recognised so clearly by a number of Liberal and Country Party politicians and ex-Country Party politicians in the State in which I live who, during the autumn period when this Bill was being delayed, campaigned quite vigorously and irresponsibly to establish a State wheat marketing athority 

 Senator Scott raised one other point; the question of the owner-operator's allowance. I notice that the focus of his complaint centred on the fact that the allowance was fixed at far too low a level. Certainly that is a point upon which opinions could well vary, but it is interesting, and once again gratifying, to note that  Senator Scott  has at least confined his objections to the owneroperator's allowance on the ground of the absolute level at which it is fixed and not to the fact that it is fixed per se.  His  colleague in the House of Representatives,  Mr McVeigh,  last week stated: 
We object to the owner-operator's allowance being constant. 
My comment on that is that there is nothing new about the owner-operator's allowance being constant. Such a provision was in fact included in the previous Wheat Stabilisation Act which was passed in 1968 by a government of  Mr McVeigh's  persuasion. 
The other comment which I wish to make on previous speeches concerns  Senator Young's  passing reference to Government interference in the Australian Wheat Board's affairs. I think  Senator Young  said that he hoped that Government interference would be confined to a minimum. He made an oblique reference to alleged Government interference in Wheat Board affairs last year. I am glad that  Senator Young  has raised this point because I have some personal knowledge of Government interference in Wheat Board affairs which pre-dates 1 973 and in fact pre-dates the election of the Whitlam Government. I refer in particular to a statement made on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's program 'Country Hour' in Western Australia on 31 October 1973. October 1973 was the month when the alleged interference by the Whitlam Government occurred. Shortly following this, on 31 October 1973  Mr Wolf  Boetcher who was at that time a vice-president of the wheat section of the Farmers Union of Western Australia and a member of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, when asked whether there was anything new about governments issuing directives to the Wheat Board as to where and under what conditions it would market wheat, ridiculed that suggestion. He stated that in fact quite early in 1 972 a directive had been issued to the Board by the then Liberal-Country Party Government not to trade with the Chilean Government following the election of the Marxist  President  Allende. I refer  Senator Young  also to the book by Ronald Anderson which was published in 1971 entitled 'Crisis on the Land', in which Anderson makes an admittedly oblique reference to directives handed down in 1969 by the then  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Sir John  McEwen, to the Wheat Board to terminate its aggressive marketing policies because they were producing an unfavourable reaction in Washington. 
I wish to refer most of all to something of which I have direct personal knowledge. In 1967 a Wheat Board selling mission visited Hong Kong and there met representatives of the Chinese Government. Prior to leaving Australia this selling mission was instructed by the Government of the day to deliver to the Chinese officials a note in which it issued the ultimatum that unless the anti-British rioting, which was then in progress in Hong Kong ceased, the Australian Government would terminate the Australia-China wheat trade. I heard that story directly from a member of the Australian Wheat Board,  Mr Horrie  Smith at a meeting of the Farmers Union executive in Perth in 1 967, which was shortly after the event took place. In 1972 I made a statutory declaration setting out the events which I have just recounted to the Senate. A short time after making the statutory declaration I approached the 'Farmers Weekly', which is the official organ of the Western Australian Farmers Union, to insert a paid advertisementpaid for by me- which included the relevant extracts from that declaration. The 'Farmers Weekly' refused to accept the advertisement. I stress that it was an advertisement to be paid for at commercial rates. Although the newspaper was then losing about $25,000 a year, largely because of lost advertising revenue, it refused to accept the advertisement. 
Those stories collectively tell us a good deal about government interference in Wheat Board affairs. They also tell us a good deal about the level of objectivity which prevails among Wheat Board members when they made such a hoo-ha, to coin a phrase, last year, because the Government had allegedly interfered in its marketing activities. The Wheat Board not only remained utterly silent when the previous Liberal-Country Party Government had interfered in 1 967 and on previous occasions, but also endorsed implicitly a deception by remaining silent after the events had been exposed and by refusing to accept an advertisement which would make the information available to all wheat growers who were interested. 
I am not sure whether  Mr Smith  was a member but he was reporting on a Wheat Board meeting which had been held shortly before in Melbourne. I hope that there will be no more hypocrisy about the alleged evils of government interference in the affairs of the Australian Wheat Board, or at least no more hypocrisy from the members of the previous government which practised it. 
I have a couple of other comments to make. I wish to deflate a couple of popular myths concerning the balance sheet, if I may call it that, between the Australian wheat industry and the Australian consumer. It is often claimed that the Australian consumer owes an enormous debt to the Australian wheat industry because in the late 1940s and early 1950s wheat was sold on the domestic market at prices considerably below export parity. Because in the last 12 months or so we have been back in that sort of marketing situation, this story has had a revival. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wriedt)  ad journed. 
I direct a question to the Postmaster-General. Is the allegation, which is frequently repeated by Labor's political opponents in country areas and echoed in the rural Press, that postal and telecommunication charges discriminate against country people correct? 
As  Senator Maunsell  has already indicated, there are 2 major Bills being discussed jointly in this debate. The Wool Marketing (Loan) Bill 1974 provides for a 5 per cent levy to establish a growers' capital fund to support wool prices in the future in the market place and to provide for promotion and research. The second important Bill is the Wool Industry Bill 1974. It is the most important Bill in my view without any doubt and authorises the Government to appropriate anything up to $ 150 m for the purpose of supporting the stated reserve price of 250c a kilo clean for 21 micron wool for the remainder of this year. I emphasise, and I note with approval, that for the first time ever an Australian Government has had the courage and the gumption to serve notice to the rest of the world- to the entire wool trade- that wool will no longer be sacrified in a period of temporary market depression. I cannot stress too strongly the simple fact that throughout 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government, in spite of the fact that they were under continual pressure from a wide crosssection of the wool industry and an overwhelming number of growers to make such a move, the Country Party consistently declined to do so. I shall state some facts which are pertinent to the meaning of a 250c 21 micron clean floor price. I am pleased to note that  Senator Maunsell  has interpreted, I would think correctly, the meaning of that floor price in terms of an average greasy price for a clip in western Queensland. Such an interpretation, unfortunately has not been made by every person who has commented on this floor price. I refer in particular to a couple of statements made by the Premier and  Deputy  Premier of Western Australia, statements made by a number of people who claim to represent wool growers throughout Australia and a rather appallingly inaccurate editorial which was published in the 'Australian' shortly after the Government announced that it would support the market in this way. According to which version one likes to take- they vary greatly- the 250c floor price translated into terms of an average greasy price was anything between 40c and 45c a lb, which is nonsensical. In the case of the 'Australian' editorial it juxtaposed figures which referred to greasy prices and clean prices without bothering to differentiate between the two. It declined subsequently to publish a correction. However, I am pleased to report that  Senator Maunsell  has stated what seems to me to be the significance of that floor price for his area of Queensland. 
In terms of an Australian average price the 250c, 2 1 micron clean, according to information supplied to me last month by the Australian Wool Corporation, equals 133c per kilo average greasy price or 60c per lb average greasy price. Probably most wool growers still tend to think in terms of pounds. The allegation that an average greasy price of 60c per lb is equivalent to the 36c deficiency payment price guaranteed some 3 years ago by the previous Government cannot be accepted without very grave reservations. Since December 1970 the consumer price index has moved up 43 per cent. Almost certainly in that period the consumer price index has over-stated the true average increase in prices because it is comprised of a weighted average of a particular and limited index. For that reason it is not a realistic guide. Moreover, if we use simple indexes of prices paid and prices received for agricultural commodities or any other commodity over a significant period, it becomes quite unreliable. For example, an exercise related to an index of prices paid, and prices received by farmers, based on 1951 figures and projected forward to the mid-1960s would prove that virtually every farm in Australia had become non-viable. Even if one accepts this exaggerated estimate of a 43 per cent movement in the consumer price index, it does not equate the price of 36c per lb in 1971 with 60c in 1974. 
I wish to say a few words on the philosophy and assumptions, as I see them, which underlie the major Bill. I think that I have interpreted the position in the same way as the Government has. It is impossible to predict accurately the present market price for wool because the price is being supported by a non-commercial buyer, namely, the Government. But a reasonable estimate of the present market price in a free market is something below 200c clean per kilo compared with the 250c support price. The assumption is that that price level is unrealistically low and is the result of a temporary downturn in demand, principally because of Japan's withdrawal from the market. In the medium term that price will rise to a higher level. Assuming that it is a temporary decline in prices, the Governmemt- I stress again, for the first time- has moved in and served notice to the trade throughout the world that wool will no longer be sacrificed in periods of temporarily depressed demand at give-away prices, as it was when the Country Party governed Australia. 

 - Senator Webster should hear me out. I cannot guarantee what the Government will do. 
Did your Government ever give a guarantee at any stage or did it ever support the market? 
-We have said that we will do it for 12 months, and that is more than any Country Party government ever did. If  Senator Webster  cares to listen for another few minutes I will explain to him not only the assumption on which, as I see it, the Government based its policy, but also the philosophy which underlies it. I regret that from what I have heard of  Senator Webster's  comments in the Senate he probably will not understand it. To understand the philosophy requires a minimal comprehension of economic reality and analysis which, from the comments that I have heard  Senator Webster  make so far in the Senate, I estimate he does not possess. The philosophy is that it is not the function of governments to provide incentives to produce in normal circumstances. In a market economy incentives should come from market prices. Nor is it my belief or, in my opinion, the belief of the Government that governments should intervene indefinitely in a futile attempt to protect from the realities of the market place industries which are losing or have lost their comparative advantages. 
For the edification of  Senator Webster  I mention that the Country Party Government of which he was a member attempted to do something very much like this for the dairy industry for a period of 20 years, during which time about $750m, which would have bought half the dairy farms in Australia, was poured into the dairy industry to produce butter for many years at a marginal on-farm price of about 7c per lb. In the middle of that 20-year exercise in futility an expert committee of inquiry made certain recommendations. The economists whom  Senator Webster  detests comprised most of the members of that committee. I do not know why he detests economists so much. Presumably it is because they generally deal in factual statistics rather than metaphysical claptrap. The committee of inquiry into the dairy industry pointed out the irrationalities of the present policy. That was as far back as 1960. At the end of the 1960s, after this futile policy was continued for 10 years, even 

 Senator Webster's Government began to recognise that it was counter-productive in the long term to attempt to insulate from market realities industries which are losing or have lost their comparative advantage. Moreover, it does not eliminate poverty in an industry. No substantial agricultural industry in Australia has ever had as many low income farmers as the dairy industry had during the period when the policies of  Senator Webster's  Party were implemented. 

 - Senator Young wishes to discuss tariffs. 
I am astounded that anyone who claims to represent the interests of exporting industries- anyone on the other sidehas the audacity to raise in this Parliament the question of tariffs. If they want to talk about tariffs, their argument is as vulnerable as is their argument on the question of supporting the wool market because for 25 years what did they do about tariffs except to increase them progressively under the influence and domination of the then Minister for Trade and the Leader of the Country Party. I may repeat all the scurrilous allegations that I have heard from the Liberal Party, but not necessarily endorse them, that if one wants to know the most highly protected manufacturing industries in Australia one should look at the subscription list to McEwen House and one will find that the names are the same. 

 - Senator Webster has indicated that he is anxious to have political parties disclose the sources of their funds. I understand that in the not too distant future the Government intends introducing into the Senate legislation which will oblige political parties to do just that. I eagerly anticipate  Senator Webster's  full support for that legislation when it comes before the Senate. 
I am sorry,  Mr President.  I should not have permitted the asinine comments that have floated across from the other side of the chamber to distract me from the central purpose of this debate. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Treasurer. Is a member of Parliament considered to be fully employed as a member of Parliament? If so, is the Minister able to give an assurance that any income received by members, other than the parliamentary salary, will attract the 10 per cent surtax on income from property? 
-Has the Minister for Agriculture seen a report in last Saturday's 'Australian' according to which the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party,  Mr Sinclair,  alleged, inter alia, that devaluation would increase gross farm income by approximately $150m whereas someone whom  Mr Sinclair  called a Government spokesman had claimed that the increase would be $500m? Is there any truth in either of  Mr Sinclair's  allegations? 
Firstly, I congratulate those Opposition senators who have already spoken during this Budget debate, and spoken very eloquently. In particular, I commend my fellow Western Australian,  Senator Chaney,  for the very fair and reasonable summary, which he delivered last week, of the Budget's general objectives.  Senator Chaney  has recognised that the Budget, as he puts it, represents what the Government promised the people of Australia'. He recognises that it expresses the belief that resources, at least at the margins, should be directed towards satisfying public needs rather than private wants and that it contains 'a soak the rich element with its capital gains tax and property income surcharge '. By acknowledging those realities he achieved a level of objectivity which is not often reached in this Parliament and which has been conspicuously absent from post-Budget comments, some of which have been on those very issues, by many of his colleagues. 
Not everyone, perhaps not even  Senator Chaney,  will agree that relatively more resources should be directed from the private sector to the public sector. Some might even argue that the existence of what the American economist, Galbraith, described as public squalor in the midst of private affluence is a desirable social objective. In fact, in some conservative circles there appears to be a deeply entrenched view that all private spending is innately desirable and that all public spending is inherently wastefulunless, of course, it is directed to what is somewhat euphemistically called defence. A logical extrapolation of that point of view would be that the last few feet of non-functional metal on a modern motor vehicle is more important than the road upon which the motor vehicle moves, that the unsolicited plastic toy in the cornflakes packet and the costly package that contains it are more valuable than an adequate health service or that the half empty glass and concrete monoliths that dominate the city skyline are socially more desirable than public housing for economically or ethnically underprivileged groups. 
Some people may argue that people who possess considerable wealth and/or receive high incomes should not pay higher taxes. Such people may even argue that attempts by governments to redistribute wealth or income in favour of the relatively poor are unwise or even immoral. The degree to which income should be redistributed or the relative allocation of resources between the public sector and the private sector becomes ultimately a value judgment. As such, it provides an area of quite legitimate political dispute and debate. I do not complain because Opposition members debate these issues or dispute them. I do not complain simply because they believe or say that public spending should be reduced. But I challenge them to specify the areas in which they would reduce public spending if they were the Government. The silence is eloquent. Calls to restrict public spending are popular only in the abstract. Except in terms so vague or so petty that they are meaningless, the Opposition has failed to specify one area in which it would restrict spending. On the contrary, it talks vaguely of an alleged need to increase defence spending, sometimes by as much as one per cent of gross national product or about one per cent of gross national product, which amounts to about $500m. A few months ago it promised to restore the superphosphate bounty which last year cost $68m and which benefits far more than proportionately farmers on the highest incomes. 
If  Mr Snedden  's much vaunted calls for leadership are to acquire any credibility outside Liberal Party cheer squads, let him specify the areas in which he would reduce spending. Is it to be spending on pensions, is it to be spending on education, is it to be spending on health or is it to be spending on grants to local and State governments? 
In dealing with the question of overseas trips and the chartering of transport, I can state that there is one thing of which I am sure. I can guarantee that the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party in the House of Representatives  (Mr Sinclair)  does not believe in restricting Government expenditure on the hire of private motor cars for shopping trips for his wife. But to keep the discussion on a more orderly basis, I have excluded petty areas and that is a petty area. Let  Mr Snedden  specify where his much vaunted tax cuts would be made and whom they would benefit, not by vague and deceptive references to middle income earners but by specific references to taxable income divisions. Until the reductions in spending and the like reductions in taxation about which the Opposition talks have been specified, the talk amounts to nothing more than a sustained exercise in political chicanery. 
The Budget itself could not, by any rational judgment, be claimed to have more than a marginal influence on inflation. It is true that it assumes a continuation of inflation. In the circumstances which exist throughout the capitalist world, not to have done so would have been at the best optimistic or at the worst dishonest. 
It is exactly half way down the scale of the Organisation for Economic Development and Co-operation countries with which we are normally compared. We are equal twelfth on the scale of 24 countries. A high and recently accelerating rate of inflation is common to all capitalist democracies. 
In a series of books stretching as far back as 1952, of which 'The Affluent Society ' is probably the best known, the American economist, Galbraith, both forecast this phenomenon and provided a convincing analysis of its underlying political and economic causes. His basic premise was that price competition has virtually disappeared from most sectors of the economy and has certainly disappeared from what he calls the economic heartland. The private entrepreneur or the private corporation is not, as poltical dinosaurs and free enterprise myth makers would have us believe, an aggressive, fiercely price competitive human or corporate dynamo. Prices are determined not by competitive market forces but by cost mark-ups or, probably less commonly, by collusive agreement. Demand is not spontaneous, but is largely synthesised by a continuous and expensive campaign, the object of which is the manipulation of consumer preferences and the creation of human wants, as distinct from human needs. 
-I will deal with the beef producer later. The sheer size, the resources and the limited number of firms in the secondary, and to some extent even in the primary and tertiary, sectors have provided for each of those firms a considerable degree of original monopoly power, and in response to this monopoly power organised labour has developed countervailing power. The Bourbons of capitalist society, of course, still believe that the former can be tolerated but the latter cannot. Progressively, both the sellers of labour and the sellers of commodities become price setters rather than price takers. So on both sides of the market pressure on prices is upward. 
According to more or less conventional economic theory, a business recession accompanied by high levels of unemployment will deflate price pressures on both sides. In a political democracy that so-called solution is not viable. Even if it were, the cost in terms of human suffering probably outweighs the gain. Recessions, as the cynics have noted, are usually championed most vigorously by senior public servants on de facto lifetime appointments and politicians holding blue ribbon seats. Given the constraints of a political democracy, inflation, according to Galbraith 's diagnosis, is unlikely to disappear until an intellectual revolution has developed into a common consensus, until a new conventional wisdom more attuned to the realities it seeks to interpret has replaced the old. Unfortunately, there is little sign that such an intellectual revolution has become a common consensus. Acceptance of the simplistic notion that inflation is a product of the Whitlam Government demands the exclusion of evidence from the rest of the world. It ignores the destabilisation of all capitalist economies which flowed from the declining strength of the American dollar, which was a direct consequence of the reckless distribution of $60 billion worth of paper currency throughout the world, chiefly to finance the United States' immoral adventures in IndoChina, which I understand were warmly applauded by virtually every member of the present Opposition in this Parliament. 
Acceptance of this notion demands also a blackout on history for the year prior to 2 December 1972. Many factors have contributed to and have compounded price increases in 1973-74, but the genesis of what ultimately occurred took place in December 1 97 1 . After 3 days of internal wrangling the then Liberal Party-Country Party Government made the most selfish, irresponsible and sectionally motivated economic decision an Australian government has ever made, with the possible exception of a similar decision made by a similar government in 1950. In December 1971 the McMahon Government caved in to political blackmail from an unrepresentative minority party which was concerned with the protection of its eroding electoral base and the interests of its financial backers, who had been foolish enough to write long term contracts in United States dollars in the late 1 960s. In December 1 97 1 the then Liberal Party-Country Party Government settled for a de facto devaluation of the Australian dollar. In the ensuing year $ 1900m of foreign capital poured into the country. In the last quarter of 1972 the money supply grew at an annual rate of 37 per cent. 
Not only did that Government make a mistake, not only did it refuse to correct it when the evidence became clear that it had made a mistake, but at the time it took the decision it knew, or at least the majority Liberal Party knew, that it was a mistake. The then Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  who was an accessory, however unwilling, to that decision, is now the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives who talks glibly of leadership. Leadership indeed! The Labor Government was accused in this chamber last week of dividing the nation. Virtually all political activity is divisive to some extent, but do the people who involved Australia in the war in Indo-China expect to be taken seriously when they pontificate about divisions in society? The Country Party, that sectionally based group, which for as long as I can remember has spewed out anti-urban venom, which nurtures and feeds upon farmers' distrust of city residents, civil servants and city business, has the audacity to accuse the Whitlam Government of turning city people against country people or against farmers who, in the Country Party lexicon appear to be synonymous. Since the end of 1972 the Country Party in general and its leader in particular have conducted a continuous campaign of vilification against the Whitlam Government, a campaign which preyed upon the fear and ignorance of large sections of the rural community, a campaign supported by misinterpretation, distortion, deception and irresponsible inflammatory rhetoric. Some examples of the last: From the Farmers Weekly' of 21 December 1972: The Leader of the Country Party launched an attack upon the appointment of  Senator Wriedt  as Minister for Primary Industry, later Minister for Agriculture, who has subsequently been described by the  president  of the major farmers' organisation of Victoria as the best Minister for Primary Industry Australia has ever had. From the 'Farmers Weekly' of 19 April 1974: Story: The Government has country people in its gunsights. Author: Anthony. From the 'Farmers Weekly' of 23 August 1973, commenting on the Budget: Vicious attack upon rural industry. It really puts the boot into rural industry. Anthony. From the ' West Australian ' of 1 September 1973 a report of  Mr Anthony's  speech at a meeting of the New South Wales Country Party Council, in which he 'predicted that a tax of up to 12c a lb would be applied initially to meat exports.' He went on to say it would then be increased because an export tax would not reduce domestic prices. 
I wonder whether the Leader of the Country Party still believes that domestic prices are not set by export prices. That is the answer to the honourable senator's question about the beef industry. Both the claims by  Mr Anthony  were false. The climax of his long campaign of vilification and fabrication I personally witnessed in Forrest Place, Perth, on 25 March 1974. Incited by Country Party propaganda, obligingly amplified by the rural media, and fortified by Swan Lager, a few dozen political thugs staged an exhibition of violence without precedent in the city of Perth. A Prime Minister was physically assaulted by people who had been told so often and for so long that they were being victimised that they believed it. In electoral terms the demonstration was almost certainly counterproductive, which probably explains why the Country Party is now trying to dissociate itself from the violence which it originally incited. 
I challenge those members of the Western Australian Government who may choose to disagree with my interpretation of the events in Forrest Place to authorise the royal commission that they were asked to hold or even to release the police report which I understand they have suppressed. The Labor Party was exhorted in this chamber last week to deal with facts. Here are some facts relevant to whether farmers were being victimised. In the financial year just ended net farm income in Australia reached an all-time record high of almost $3 billion. It was almost $3,000m in the financial year just ended. 
It was more than treble- 
I do not have the time and have never claimed that the election of the Whitlam Government was responsible for it. The point I am making is that net farm income reached an all-time record high and I do not believe that people who have record high incomes are being victimised by any government. Apparently  Senator Young  disagrees. By any realistic definition-- 
Do you not want the facts? By any realistic definition of what constitutes a farm, average net farm income in Australia last year was around $15,000, which is more than double average weekly earnings. Sixty-five per cent of Australians have incomes below average weekly earnings. Now who is being victimised? In Western Australia, the State where this demonstration of violence, this exhibition of thuggery, took place, it was considerably higher. Average net farm income there was probably as high as $25,000. These were the people who were persuaded that they were being victimised. Honourable senators opposite asked for the facts and now they have them. I might add that the Green Paper has estimated that the average net worth of Australian farmers is in the vicinity of $100,000 compared with $12,000 for nonfarming Australians. So much for victimisation. 
I think someone asked what was happening a couple of years before. Amidst all this talk of a rural revolution or attempts to incite a rural revolution it is interesting to look back a few years to when net farm income averaged about $3,500. That was in 1970-71, I think. At that time  Mr Anthony  was telling the wheat growers that he would not sell his soul for trade by desisting from insulting the Chinese, the previous Government had worked its way out of its major wheat market, and  Mr Anthony  called off the professional lobbyist that the Australian Wheat Board was employing in the United States because, as  Mr Anthony  told a meeting of the executive of the Farmers' Union of Western Australia, he was starting to embarrass the Americans. Of course, in those days- that is, 1970- we did not do anything to embarrass the Americans. I seem to recall in 1969 the former Leader of the Australian Country Party stating that rural industry was facing its darkest hour since the great depression. I noticed that the current  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  repeated that the other day. Where was the rural revolution then? The distinction between a real economic crisis which existed in respect of agriculture in 1970-71 and a fantasy economic crisis which exists today and between the reactions to the two can be explained by the fact that current so-called attempts to incite a rural revolution are politically motivated. It is true that average net farm incomes this year appear likely to be much lower. Possibly they may fall to an average as low as $8,000 but that is still above the average weekly earnings. 
Only 35 per cent of Australians exceed average weekly earnings.  Senator Marriott  must have a well paid typist. Certainly there are poor farmers. Certainly there are poor people in country towns. The Henderson report showed that the incidence of poverty in country towns was nearly twice as high as it was in capital cities. That is the way it was under Country Party rule. The rural town poor received no assistance from superphosphate bounties, dairy bounties or farmer taxation dodges and the small farmer received very little assistance. The weakening of their competitive position vis-a-vis the larger farmers possibly exacerbated their problems. So far as I am aware, neither the Country Party as a group, the Liberal Party nor any major farmer organisation has ever campaigned for income assistance for either the rural town poor or the small low-income farmer. Perhaps they do not realise that input or output subsidies and taxation concessions are regressive. Perhaps they callously regard the rural poor as expendable human propaganda which can be used to rationalise the regressive distribution of largesse to the rural aristocracy. The real inequalities in the distribution of income and wealth in this country do not exist between the urban sector and the rural sector. The real inequalities are within the urban sector and within the rural sector. 
This Budget expresses the fundamental belief of the Australian Labor Party that gross inequalities in the distribution of wealth and income are immoral. Quite apart from their propensity to filter the evidence and distort the facts, the opponents of this Government and the opponents of its agricultural policies in particular suffer from a congenital inability to comprehend the basic logic of the free enterprise system they espouse and the crucial role of market prices in allocating productive resources.  Sir Charles  Court, who is probably best known as the exgoverning director of Cherita Investments but who is also the Premier of Western Australia, at least until the more rational and progressive members of the Liberal Party, some of whom sit across the aisle in this chamber, can engineer his removal, made the astounding claim last month that the Australian Wool Corporation would sell more wool to the trade if the Government set the reserve price higher. He was at the time accompanied by his new-found ally, the Premier of Queensland, who has, I understand, recently embraced the economic doctrines of the League of Rights. 

 Sir Charles evidently possesses not only a remarkable ignorance of the process of price formation but also is ignorant of recent wool marketing history. In July the corporation did try to hold a 300c floor price. The trade bought less than 30 per cent of the wool offered when the reserve price was 300c. Since then the reserve price has dropped to 250c and the trade has bought about 50 per cent- and 50 per cent is more than 30 per cent. Having denied the existence of a rational world,  Sir Charles  then asserted that the world needs more wool growers and greater production. If anybody wants the reference for this, it was reported in the 'Western Australian Farmer and Grazier' on 12 September. The Australian Government is currently buying about 40 per cent of the wool clip. In what sense the world needs more wool growers or greater production  Sir Charles  Court did not explain.  Sir Charles  is, of course, a growth man, a simplistic growth man, and it was he who boasted loudest and longest during the 1960s of the 'million acres a year' being opened for agriculture in Western Australia. He was the architect of a policy of reckless agricultural expansion. 
In 1969 his Government introduced legislation to restrict wheat production on land which only one year earlier it boasted of having developed. In 1969 thousands of sheep were fed to pigs, not because there was no demand for mutton but because there was a shortage of abattoirs to slaughter the sheep. The Government was warned as early as 1966 of the impending abattoir crisis in the Towns and Austin report. It did nothing to forestall the crisis. Indeed it exacerbated it by continuing the 'million acres a year' policy.  Sir Charles,  of course, does not believe in economic planning or indeed any rational planning. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it correct that the Liberal Party's new platform no longer pretends that the SEATO treaty has anything to do with Australia's defence? If so, does this indicate that the Liberal Party has begun to catch up with the realities of the 1960s? 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture what progress has been made in speeding up the flow of funds to wheat growers from the 1973-74 wheat pool? Has the third advance been paid and, if not, when is it expected? 
Very briefly, I believe that some comment should be passed on some of the issues that  Senator Webster  has raised. Firstly, he referred to the very substantial decline in meat prices. This is certainly true; this has happened. I hope that the across the board fall in meat prices has been an educational lesson to the Australian Country Party and its allies because I distinctly recall the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the majority of his vocal colleagues insisting only 12 months ago that the level of export prices did not determine the level of domestic prices. I hope that the Country Party will accept what has been to some producers a very serious downturn in prices as educational experience and learn from it the simple fact that if meat is being exported, the price right across the board in the meat market, or at least for livestock, is set by export prices, as of course it must be in any competitive market. 
Secondly, I am astounded that  Senator Webster,  a senator from Victoria, should be claiming in this Senate that the removal of the petroleum freight subsidy in August this year has been a serious blow to the farmers of Victoria, because in August the Treasury produced an official document which named 52 major centres in Victoria. In only five of those centres was the price of petrol affected by the removal of the subsidy. So far as I can recall, the maximum level of subsidy was 2.2c per gallon, and in three of the five centres that were affected by the removal of the subsidy the consequent increase in the price of petrol was 0.6c a gallon, or less. 
His remarks were presented within the context of a Victorian farmers meeting as if this was an important issue in Victoria. That is an extreme example, that is true, but the matter was of somewhat more importance in the other States. Overwhelmingly throughout the agricultural areas of Australia the removal of the petroleum freight subsidy in August this year was a matter of negligible consequence. The position in Queensland is a little different, and I might take this opportunity of pointing out that if the Queensland Premier is so concerned about the effects of the removal of the petroleum subsidy in the outback areas of Queensland, I understand that he has completely within his field of legal jurisdiction an optional method under which he could compel the fuel companies to sell petrol out of bowsers at a uniform price throughout Queensland. Of course, under such a scheme city and coastal consumers would have to subsidise petrol freight rates to outback areas. I do not expect that the Queensland Premier will act upon such a proposal because to restrict the subsidy to those people who buy petrol from bowsers would, in fact, restrict the benefits flowing to the private motorists, and I suspect that the Queensland Premier is far more interested in the effect that the removal of the subsidy had on some very profitable inland mining companies. 
The final point is very important because the issue has been raised that superphosphate should be subsidised, and within the context of the argument for such a subsidy it has been suggested that we have a moral obligation to produce food for the world, and so on. The subsidy on superphosphate can be considered on 2 distinctly different grounds. The first is on economic grounds. If farmers make rational economic decisions they will achieve any given level of production at the lowest true or social cost if all production inputs are costed at true market prices. That is a simple economic axiom. If, however, the Country Party believes that farmers do not make rational economic decisions and that therefore a superphosphate bounty is justified, I believe that the Country Party should say that farmers do not make rational economic decisions. Even if they do not, of course, the argument is still unproven because it needs to be demonstrated not only that some farmers may use less than the optimum quantity of superphosphate, but also that the consequent net gains from an increase in the consumption of superphosphate induced by a subsidy would more than offset the losses which accrue through the over-usage and technically inefficient usage of superphosphate. 

 - Senator Baume has mentioned rural poverty. I understand that there is a great deal of rural poverty in the State of Queensland, and that in that State the consumption of superphosphate is by far the lowest of any State in Australia. Consumption of superphosphate on an average per farm basis in Western Australia where incidentally the average net farm incomes are consistently higher than any other States, is by far the highest of any State. So it seems to me that the suggestion of  Senator Baume-  no doubt a well-intended suggestionof subsidising superphosphate as an effective way of treating the income problems of low income farmers cannot be squared off with the facts of the case which are, of course, that either on a State basis or on an individual basis people who use little or no superphosphate have low incomes. There is not necessarily a correlation between the usage of phosphate and the level of income. If  Senator Baume  is interested in farmers' incomes and suggests that there is a social justification for assistance it seems to me rather obvious that such assistance should be directed towards sustaining income levels rather than towards subsidising any particular input or output. 
The point I really wanted to make is that there has again been raised the argument which has a strong but very superficial appeal, namely that we ought to subsidise superphosphate in order to feed more effectively the world's hungry. It is raised by people who applied very restrictive quotas on the production of wheat in Australia only 5 years ago and maintained quite restrictive quotas for the following 3 seasons. There were hungry people in the world at that time too, yet we under a Liberal-Country Party Federal Government and under Liberal-Country Party governments in four of the 6 States imposed restrictions on wheat production- for what reason? lt was to maintain the price. 
If we are really interested in maximising food production in Australia there are ways of doing so other than by subsidising superphosphate. Wool, for example, competes with food crops for land and other resources. If our paramount national objective was simply to increase food production it would be desirable to apply a disincentive to wool production. I do not know whether the Opposition Parties are suggesting that but if they are suggesting that the maximisation of food production should be a paramount national objective, I would suggest in turn that they give serious consideration to disincentives to wool production. 
It is not nonsense,  Senator Martin.  Wool production competes for land and other resources with food crops. The higher the price of wool the less likely the land is to be used for food crops and vice versa. This applies also to beef production. Surely the members of the Opposition are not so naive that they believe the people in the world who are suffering from malnutrition or from absolute starvation are going to have the purchasing power necessary to secure a luxury commodity like beef. Moreover, if we are really interested in feeding the hungry world why do we devote a considerable amount of resources to attempts to persuade the overfed at home and abroad to endanger their health by gluttony- by eating more than is good for them? 
Looking at this question on a world perspective, Australia produces somewhat less than 2 per cent of the world 's food production. If it were doubled- which is probably technically feasible within a decade if it was given very high national priority- it would feed the world's population increase for about one year. That is putting it in something like a world perspective. It still disregards the enormous problems of transport and distribution in the areas of the world where the world 's hungry actually are. If we can look at this rationally and not as an attempt to justify handouts from society to particular privileged groups but as an attempt to feed the world's hungry, it quickly becomes fairly obvious that the only means which is likely to be effective is to stimulate food production in those areas of the world where agriculture technology is backward and where the hungry people actually are. Of course, that will also fail unless it is complemented with an effective program of birth control. 
Restricting the discussion to the question of superphosphate, high quality phosphate deposits are also a very limited world resource. The marginal gain from the application of an extra tonne of superphosphate to food crops in India, for example, is immeasurably greater than the marginal gain from the application of a tonne of superphosphate in Australia. That disregards the fact that much of the superphosphate used in Australia is not used to produce food crops at all. If we are interested in maximising world food production in the areas where it would be most effective, namely, the areas of the world where the hungry are, instead of encouraging the wasteful use of superphosphate- I know from my own personal experience as a farmer that it has been used wastefully - 
It has been used in ways that are technically inefficient.  Senator Baume  wants to investigate that statement. I will tell him what I am talking about. I am talking about the practice that is quite widespread in Western Australia of pre-spreading superphosphate on land which is about to be sown with cereal crops. It is about half as effective as drilling the superphosphate in with the seed. I believe that  Senator Baume  was suggesting that I as a farmer had been in the habit of using superphosphate in technically inefficient ways. Let me set his mind at rest. I was never associated personally with that practice. 
If we are interested in maximising world food production we will act far more effectively by giving the Indians a tonne of superphosphate than by giving them a tonne of grain. Giving them a tonne of superphosphate would allow them to produce something like 12 tonnes to 20 tonnes of grain in India. It is much easier to transport a tonne of superphosphate than subsequently to transport the 20 tonnes or grain which could be produced with it. I appeal to members of the Opposition who are genuinely concerned about this problem to drop all the cant and humbug about maximising food production to feed the hungry people of the world when their argument is used only as an excuse to justify the privileged position of privileged groups within Australia. If they are really serious I appeal to them to give the subject consideration in somewhat more depth and to seek a more rational solution to the problem than many of them appear to have been pursuing in the past. 
Does the AttorneyGeneral have any information concerning fines imposed by the Perth Stock Exchange recently on member firms? Specifically, does he know the names of the firms, the penalties imposed, and the type of malpractice for which the penalties were imposed? Is he able to provide this information to the Senate? 
-Has the Minister for Agriculture seen a report of an assertion in the House of Representatives by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party that  Senator Wriedt  should be replaced as Minister for Agriculture because of his alleged lack of sympathy and understanding of agricultural problems? Has he also seen a statement by  Mr Sinclair  that during the election campaign an agricultural chemical company was asked to contribute funds to the Australian Labor Party's campaign, with the implication that if a donation was not forthcoming then, to quote  Mr Sinclair,  some ill might befall that company's continued participation in the agricultural community'? Are these statements true, and have any farmer leaders supported  Mr Sinclair  in his call for replacement of the present Minister for Agriculture? 
I present the following petition from 399 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
We the undersigned citizens of Australia do humbly petition the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia that it might take such steps as may be necessary either to direct the Commonwealth Banking Corporation to preserve and restore The Palace Hotel or itself acquire the said Palace Hotel, St George's Terrace, Perth on its present site so as to preserve and restore it in perpetuity. 
Further we do humbly petition this honourable Parliament to make such funds as may be necessary available to purchase the entire contents of the said hotel from the owners thereof. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Minister seen  Sir Norman  Giles 's report, as  chairman,  to Elder Smith Goldsborough Mort Ltd in which  Sir Norman  mentions socialism, free enterprise and a national companies Act? Does the Minister know whether the socialism of which  Sir Norman  disapproves would include the Government's maintenance of the 250c floor price for wool and whether the free enterprise he eulogises includes the fraudulent company practises exposed by the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange? Does he know whether  Sir Norman  Giles has a propensity to mouth the loose and emotive cliches of the political propagandist? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I ask: Does the Bureau of Mineral Resources receive any compensation from private mining companies for its exploratory work? Did the BMR first strike phosphate rock at great depth in the Mount Isa area in Queensland and did its geologists predict with reasonable accuracy the area in which the phosphate rock was likely to appear on the surface? Did the company, Broken Hill South Ltd, later claim to have discovered the deposit? 
Has the Minister for Agriculture seen  Mr Anthony's  week-end statement in which he declared that the Government has a compelling obligation to secure and expand markets for Austraiian exports? Did  Mr Anthony  assert in February 1971 that he would not sell his soul for trade at a time when the wheat industry was restricted by quotas and had lost its major wheat market in China? Further, does the Minister know the reason for  Mr Anthony's  latest self-contradiction? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy seen claims that the supply of natural gas to Perth could be inadequate by 1980? Will the potential problem be exacerbated by court challenges to legislation passed by the Australian Parliament and by the stalling and delaying tactics of the Liberal and Country parties and the Court Government in Western Australia? 

 - Mr President, I think it was Galbraith who once drew attention to the nexus between ideas and the environment of people who conceive those ideas. I recalled this to mind when I was listening to  Senator Townley  expressing concern about what he called the middle income earner. He defined the middle income earner as a person who receives a taxable income of about $12,000 a year. The thought which struck me was that pharmacy must be an extremely lucrative business, if the association between a person's environment and the ideas that he holds and the way in which he interprets or conceives reality is valid. I do not have up to date statistics on this matter, but 3 years ago, only1 per cent of people received incomes of $12,000 a year or above. No doubt, because of rising incomes the number is now significantly higher than that. It may be as high as even 3 per cent or 4 per cent. But even at 3 per cent or 4 per cent it illustrates pretty devastatingly how the majority of honourable senators opposite are out of touch with reality. They imagine that people with taxable incomes of $12,000 a year and above represent middle income earners. 

 Senator Webster then followed with what the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  has described as a diatribe of distortions, or words to that effect. Although I did not take it down, I think he opened up by referring to the disastrous and discriminatory policies which this Government had pursued against rural industry. He once again demonstrated the Australian Country Party's propensity to be very strong on prejudice, very weak on comprehension and sometimes very weak on factual knowledge. The gaps in its factual knowledge part of it were demonstrated clearly in the other place on 12 November 1974 when the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O 'Keefe),  speaking in the adjournment debate, followed the usual emotive rhetorical line of the Country Party when discussing the 1973 Budget. He claimed that the 1973 Budget had placed tremendous imposts upon the agricultural sector and concluded by saying: 
It did this at a time when our wool, meat and wheat were difficult to produce and when we had unfavourable markets. 
It just so happens that for the 6 months before and after that period meat and wheat prices had hit an all-time record high level, and wool prices had peaked at a level which had not been experienced for 2 decades. The honourable member for Paterson then stated that an export tax of lc per lb was imposed for meat inspection services. He stated that correctly. He went on to say: 
In addition there was levied ... a levy of 6c per lb for the eradication of tuberculosis and brucellosis. 
The magnitude of his error is 1,000 per cent. In fact, the levy imposed was 0.6c a lb. Possibly he has corrected the record since, but he had not corrected it in time for the printing of the daily Hansard- or perhaps he does not know any better, 

 Senator Webster went on to repeat the stereotyped Country Party argument. He referred to taxation concessions, depreciation allowances and revaluation, and in the context of the last point I was interested to note that he stated it is impossible to calculate the precise effects of currency adjustments. At least that is a new twist for the Country Party. About 12 or 18 months ago the Country Party insisted on pushing the simplistic line that there was a direct one-to-one association between changes in the exchange rate and prices received by Australian exporters. I note with approval that the Country Party seems to have amended that simplistic idea. With respect to special depreciation allowances and special taxation allowances, on occasions there may be some justification for government intervention in some way in order to stimulate investment in a particular sector. But it is not possible to justify policies, which have become ossified or entrenched, of providing incentives permanently for particular areas of investment. I will not go into this matter at great length. The reasons behind this policy have been expounded many times by many people They are put very succinctly in the Green Paper on rural policy in Australia from which I shall quote an extract. Chapter 5.48 states: 
Incomes tax concessions accentuate this problem much more . . . 
That is the problem of unequal distribution. It continues:   in that, as they have been operated in Australia, they provide the greater per unit subsidy to those with the highest marginal tax rate, i.e. those with the highest taxable income, and in this sense conflict with both efficiency and welfare criteria. 
Without going any further into this question of taxation concessions and all the other imposts which the Whitlam Government was alleged to have placed on farmers in the 1973 Budget, the final test of the sincerity not only of the Country Party but also of the entire Opposition was demonstrated quite decisively in the election campaign in May 1974 when, despite having fulminated for the previous 8 months about the alleged injustice and the alleged unwisdom of these policy decisions, the Liberal and Country Parties gave no undertaking to reverse any of these policies, with the exception of the superphosphate bounty; and even then that undertaking was carefully qualified by the statement that the bounty would be extended for 3 years and referred to the Industries Assistance Commission for study. No commitment in relation to the superphosphate bounty was given beyond a period of 3 years. No commitment was given for anything else which the Liberal and Country Parties had said should not have been changed. That, I suggest, was a fair test of the sincerity of the criticism that they direct towards this Government. 
I certainly do not think that it was unreasonable to put it to the IAC. I suggest very strongly, though, that it is highly deceptive, to say the least, to grandstand in the countryside and say how necessary particular taxation concessions and rates of depreciation are, or are alleged to be, and then, when there is an opportunity of offering an alternative policy in an election campaign, to give no undertaking to provide some real backing for the empty rhetoric that the Country Party had been throwing around the electorate for the previous 8 months. 
I was also interested to note that  Senator Webster  moved on to the old area of food production and raised the argument that we are under a compelling moral obligation to maximise the production of food. I find this intriguing in view of  Senator Webster's  opposition expressed consistently inside and outside this chamber to the removal of margarine quotas, because it so happens that the imposition of margarine quotas is a restriction on food production and, moreover, a restriction, deliberately imposed, on a type of food production which is vastly more efficient in terms of land and other resource requirements than the alternative productbutter. If  Senator Webster  is sincere in his desire to maximise food production I trust that he will cease opposing, in the way he has constantly done up until this time, the removal of margarine quotas. 
Yes. As  Senator McLaren  points out, starvation and malnutrition are nothing new in the world. In 1969 the previous Liberal-Country Party Government was in power and when Liberal and Country Party governments were in power in all wheat growing States they imposed wheat quotas. People were then starving in places like Biafra. They were starving soon afterwards in Bangladesh. Of course, people have been undernourished in half the world for the past 50 years 'or longer. 
We now have the Opposition apparently putting its imprimatur on the notion that policy should be dictated to government from bodies outside Parliament. That appears to be the only reasonable interpretation that can be placed upon  Senator Young's  interjection. Although it is true that the Wheatgrowers Federation made such a statement, it did so under extreme pressure, in fact under duress from the then Federal Government which had placed an absolute limit on the amount of money which would be made available for a first advance payment. That absolute limit was $440m. The Government said: 'That is all the money there is.' Then it asked the wheat industry: 'What are you going to do about it?' The wheat industry came back and said: 'Well, maybe it would not be such a bad idea to impose quotas. ' That was supposed to have been a spontaneous decision arrived at by the Wheatgrowers Federation. 
The argument that the Wheatgrowers Federation made the decision is advanced in this chamber by people who have maintained for the last couple of months that the level of the first advance is crucial in determining the volume of wheat which is likely to be produced. I also add that the Western Australian Government, which was a Liberal-Country Party Government at the time, moved to introduce wheat quotas before it received any request from the local wheatgrower organisations to do so. I shall say a bit more about the first advance payment, especially as the Opposition has seen fit to raise the subject. Over the last couple of months we have seen a sustained campaign with respect to the first advance payment for the coming 1975 harvest and for the 1975-76 harvest. The people who have been conducting this campaign fall into 2 broad categories- the political opportunists and the galahs. The galahs are those who either do not know any facts or who do not know how to interpret the facts which may be available to them. The political opportunists seem to be well represented in this chamber. It has been repeatedly said that the wheat industry has a liquidity problem. As usual no evidence has been produced to support that assertion. 
If we examine the level of money which has been paid into the wheat industry over the last 3 or 4 years we see the sort of general picture which emerges. I refer to an article which appeared in the 'Financial Review' of, I think, Wednesday of last week. I do not have it on hand at the moment. I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of the article. It discloses that between now and April- which is 5 months- $667m will be paid into the wheat industry. For the same period last year $540m was paid in. The Minister for Agriculture has provided figures over the last 2 weeks in this chamber in response to a succession of questions from honourable senators opposite. If we set the figure of $667m from the Financial Review' which is to be paid into the wheat industry over the next 5 months alongside the payment for 1972-73 which amounted to $253m- that was for an entire financial year- we find that the payments to the wheat industry for the next 5 months will be 150 per cent in excess of the industry's total receipts 2 years previously. Certainly there has been an increase in the cash cost of wheat production. I stress cash cost because it is a good idea to distinguish between the 2 costs. It is impossible to estimate that cost at this time. It may have been as high as 25 per cent. 
-Senator Webster, 1 shall discuss taxation in a moment. Increased costs do not affect the industry's increased cash flow up by 1 50 per cent on what the amount was 2 years ago. So to talk about a liquidity problem in the wheat industry on an across the board basis is utterly absurd. I trust that honourable senators opposite will cease to do so. Of course, at the individual level it is possible that there are exceptions. It is possible that a wheat grower who either had a poor crop last year, will have a poor crop this year or who has had or will have a poor crop in both seasons may have a liquidity problem. To a wheatgrower who has a very small wheat delivery in either of these years, an increase in the first advance will have little effect on his liquidity position because he has not delivered much wheat on which he could receive a higher first advance. 
Once again, I suppose this is typical of the type of thinking which prevails among honourable senators opposite. They have an apparently genetic propensity to use ineffective remedies to solve alleged problems. A simple fact emerges. Anyone who knows anything about wheat growing or anyone who has looked at actual case studies or analyses from wheat farms must realise that the margin in favour of wheat growing- - given anticipated price levels for wheat and its alternative commodities- runs so heavily in favour of wheat that any wheat grower who is facing a liquidity problem and who does not plant as much wheat in the coming season as he can must have rocks in his head. Just a couple of days ago I obtained from the Western Australian Department of Agriculture an estimate based on the assumption that the on farm price of wheat for the 1975-76 harvest would be in the vicinity of $2. 1 5 a bushel. Most people consider that estimate to be conservative. But based on that assumption and on the Department's estimated cash costs, the gross margin for wheat growing was $46 a hectare. 
Given prevailing levels of meat and wool prices it is extremely unlikely- at least within the wheat growing areas of Western Australia- that any alternative to wheat production, other than some other grain, could reach half that gross margin figure of $46. If we look at the past, current and expected pool returns for wheat we find that in 197 1 the total return to the grower was in the vicinity of $1.25. For 1974-75- this is necessarily an estimate- it will be in the vicinity of $2.70. For 1975-76 which is a more hazardous estimate because it is further ahead, but which is a very conservative estimate, the figure is $2.20. If we look back to 1970 we find that the total return of $1.25 to the wheatgrower was so profitable that the Government of the day considered it necessary to introduce quotas which would restrict competition between farmers so that they would grow the limited quantity of wheat which was marketable at the ruling prices. Farmers 4 years ago were fighting each other for the right to grow wheat for a return of $1.25 a bushel. Do members of the Opposition have the audacity to suggest, given that historical reality, that it is not attractive to grow wheat for a return of $2.20 or $2.70 a bushel this year or next year? 
As I have frequently tried to point out to members of the Country Party for their enlightenment, the thing that overwhelmingly determines the level of prosperity in Australian agriculture, particularly in those sectors of it which are exporters, is the level of overseas demand. I certainly nave never denied that. Governments exert little more than a peripheral influence over the final result. There are some sectors where the misconceived actions of governments can seriously aggravate problemssuch sectors as fruit growing and butterfatwhere in the past most of the output has been consumed on the home market and marginal production has been exported, normally at very low prices. In that situation, if a government moves in to artificially stimulate production it can have quite serious consequences for the producers in those industries. I observe in passing that previous Liberal-Country Party governments showed a very disturbing propensity to do just that. 
It also has been claimed that because the price of wheat is higher the first advance should be higher. I suppose there is a rough logic in that unlike the liquidity argument which is nonsense. There is perhaps a certain amount of rough logic in the argument that because the final return is likely to be higher the first advance should be higher. If the first advance for a particular year is increased- I am sure members of the Country Party would appreciate this if they were in government- a precedent is established for future years. If the first advance was increased beyond the level of $1.50 which the Government has approved for the following year, it would create a precedent from which it would be very difficult to retreat if wheat prices subsequently fell, and we still followed the argument that there ought to be some correlation between the likely final return and the level of the first advance. Perhaps it is worth looking back 2 years before this Government came to power when the likely size of the 1972 harvest was known, when farmers generally had had 3 years of pretty low incomes and when there probably was a genuine liquidity squeeze as distinct from a fictitious liquidity squeeze. Two years ago approaches were made to the then Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  to increase from $1.10 the level of the first advance. Honourable senators should remember, once again, that it was quite a poor wheat crop. The average yield was significantly below normal so the total amount of money circulated to wheat growers, even if the first advance had been increased, would not have been greater than normal.  Mr Sinclair  said no, which perhaps was a fair comment. What was not fair or reasonable were the reasons he gave for saying no. He said 2 things. The first was that it could provoke an adverse Treasury action. As I commented at the time, I would have thought that even the Country Party, after 23 years in government, would have learned that the Treasury is a Department of the Federal Government which has no option but to abide by directives transmitted to it. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wriedt)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Did  Mr Snedden,  the Leader of the Opposition, state last night that growth of the money supply should be closely regulated and controlled? When  Mr Snedden  was the Treasurer only 2 years ago at what rate was the money supply growing and did he make any attempt to control it? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask: Has he seen a report in last Thursday's 'Australian Financial Review' stating that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development estimates the economic growth rate in its 24 member countries this year will be 'approximately zero'? Can this highly reputable forecast be reconciled with the Opposition's tiresome assertions that economic problems are caused by the Australian Government? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask: Can he inform the Senate whether the honourable member for Wannon walked through a bed of hot coals in his attempt to reach the political execution block and behead his leader? 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture: Has he seen a report that the Minister for Agriculture in the New South Wales Government criticises him for, among other things, suspending wheat quotas for 1975-76? Does this mean that the New South Wales Government is opposed to the suspension of quotas? Is the suspension of quotas an essential step towards maximising wheat planting next year? 
I had not intended originally to speak on this Bill, but I was tempted to enter the debate after hearing a repeat, a regurgitation, from several Opposition senators of the old myths and shibboleths that they have been displaying and spewing out again around the countryside ever since the major provisions of the 1974 Budget were made known. As I listened to members of the Opposition talk about the proposed taxation surcharge on income from property and as I heard them weep and wail for the poor savers of wages who were to have the income from their savings bank accounts and their building society accounts taxed at a penalty rate, I thought that the only people who have wealth in this country must be those who have saved wages. If one is to take seriously the arguments of members of the Opposition there is no such thing as inherited wealth or windfall gains. If we take seriously the arguments of members of the Opposition the only people in this country who have wealth are the hard working, frugal souls who have saved their wages. 
Another point that the Opposition seems to have overlooked is that a tax of this nature in fact applied in Australia from the time when Federal income tax was introduced in 1915 until 1952. If the proposed tax will have the disastrous consequences that members of the Opposition have suggested tonight and this afternoon it will have, why did it not have such disastrous consequences in the 37 years that a tax of a similar nature applied in this country? It has been acknowledged tacitly by  Senator Wood,  although I do not think he quantified it, that the proposed taxation surcharge on income accruing from property excludes the majority of Australian taxpayers. In fact estimates from the Treasury have shown that 10 out of 1 1 Australians, or perhaps 1 1 out of 12 Australians, are totally exempt from the imposition of this tax. From the Opposition's strenuous opposition to and trenchant criticism of the tax and the idea behind it- given the fact that 10 out of 1 1 Australians will be exempt from its provisions- one can deduce for whom the Opposition speaks. It speaks for one out of 1 1 of the people of this country. 
Having tacitly acknowledged that the majority of Australians, in fact 10 out of 11, will be exempt from the provisions of this tax,  Senator 
Wood tried to escape from the only rational conclusion that can be drawn from the fact by saying that the poor people will still be paying for it.  Senator Wood  said: 'Rents have already increased because of this tax which does not apply yet'. This is a type of logic that is more befitting his Country Party colleagues. Apparently the type of logic that prevails in the Country Party has spilled over and infected the Liberal Party. Disregarding the fact that  Senator Wood  has said that this tax, which does not yet apply, has already increased rents, and making the nonsensical assumption that  Senator Wood's  claim is valid, it raises some interesting implications.  Senator Wood  has said that if any measure whatsoever decreases the effective net income that is received by landlords rents will increase to the full extent of the reduction in the effective level of landlords' income. One of the implications of that statement is that landlords have unlimited power to set whatever prices they like for rent. If that is so it seems to me that the validity of  Senator Hall's  assertion that it is high time that governments in this country had and exercised power to control prices is emphasised. 
If we are to follow  Senator Wood's  line of reasoning and landlords have unlimited power to increase rents to any level that they choose, surely it is time that this Government had and exercised power to stop landlords from behaving in that predatory way. There is one alternative explanation to  Senator Woods'  line of argument, although he did not spell it out. If income received from rents were to be subjected to a penalty rate of tax- to a tax surcharge- and that tax applied to home building only, or to landlords only, it could be argued that this would induce a flight of capital out of home building for residential or rental purposes. In the long term there would be some validity in that argument if it were directed against landlords of residential dwellings. But, of course, this tax applies to all forms of property income. It cannot be argued that a potential investor will decline to invest in one specific area of the economy because he is going to pay a penalty rate of taxation in that area and therefore will invest somewhere else because in this instance there is no escape. It applies to property income no matter where that property income is derived. Consequently there is no danger and there is no way in which there could be a flight of capital from any particular sector of the economy. 
That brings me to the third argument implied in the points that the Opposition has raised. The Opposition implied that if there is to be a surcharge on taxation for income derived from property people will become less thrifty. Opposition members went on to argue that a high marginal rate of income tax with or without a property surcharge discourages thrift and therefore it will adversely affect capital formation. If Opposition members had done any reading on this subject minus their ideological blinkers they would have known that the evidence from the real world about this theory is far from decisive. In fact some of the evidence available from countries like Scandinavia, where marginal taxation rates are very high and the distribution of income is fairly equal- by world standards extremely equal- indicates that the rate of capital formation is also extraordinarily high. On the other hand in countries where the distribution of income is grossly unequal and the maximum marginal rates of taxation are quite low- this applies throughout most of South East Asia and the Arabian countries generally- the rate of domestic capital formation is quite low. So the ramifications of having high marginal rates of taxation on the rate of domestic capital formation is far from clear cut, as the Opposition would have us believe, and in fact some empirical evidence from the real world suggests that one has very little to do with the other. 
I would like to refer for a moment to  Senator Hall's  call to the Opposition, to the Liberal Party in particular, to reconsider its very short sighted attitude towards the referendum to control prices and incomes. Incidentally, it was held last December, not May as  Senator Hall  inadvertently stated. That referendum was defeated, due in no small measure to the vociferous opposition of members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party. It is most timely that  Senator Hall  chose this occasion to raise the matter in this chamber and to make a statement to the Press yesterday or today. It is time the Liberal Party and the Country Party reconsidered their attitude to this matter. I repeat that if  Senator Woods'  assertion is to be taken on face value, namely, that landlords have total and unlimited power to set rents at any levels they choose, this emphasises that it is absolutely vital that the troglodytes in the Liberal Party and the Country Party review their attitude to this vital question. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the new Government of Queensland committed by election promises to abolish several forms of State taxation and to pay consumer subsidies? Were these economic policies borrowed from the Australian Country Party's or National Party's fraternal organisation in Queensland, the Australian League of Rights? Is it true that peanuts are to be proclaimed legal tender in Queensland? If not, can he assure the Senate that the Queensland Government will not be permitted to print its own currency in order to fulfil its promises? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: In view of  Mr 
Snedden 's assertion last week that the attempt to depose him from the Liberal Party leadership was part of the Labor Party's propaganda exercise, will  Senator Murphy  assure the Senate that neither the honourable member for Wannon nor the honourable member for Chisholm is a secret Labor Party undercover man? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- The point of order is well taken. A question must be related to a matter which is within the province of the Minister to whom it is directed. But I will leave it to the Minister to give the answer. 
Has the Minister for Agriculture seen a statement made in Perth last Thursday by the Leader of the Australian Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  in which he accused the Government of embarking on what he called the dangerous course of deficit budgeting' and demanded that the Government say no to groups seeking government funds? Is it correct that the wool reserve price scheme will account for about $300m of the 1974-75 Budget deficit? Is  Mr Anthony  demanding that the Government reduce the Budget deficit by refusing to finance the reserve price scheme for wool, as the Country Party consistently refused to do when it was in power? Finally, would the withdrawal of such financial support have disastrous consequences for the very people  Mr Anthony  claims to represent? 
Firstly I want to draw attention to that section of this statement of a matter of urgency which says that the Labor Government is 'demonstrably incapable of preventing hardship and deprivation to the hundreds of thousands of Australian workers', etc. I think it may be salutary to remember that the level of unemployment benefits currently being paid is 82 per cent higher than the level of unemployment benefits paid by the Liberal-Country Party coalition government 25 months ago. A common blind' spot displayed by all Opposition speakers, with the marginal exception of  Senator Hall,  was their prediction that the Australian economy could be considered in isolation from the rest of the world. They failed to acknowledge that any of the current economic difficulties have been imported or externally caused. 
Coming from Western Australia as I do I am very conscious of the error into which that sort of economic isolationism or tunnel vision can lead a conservative politician. I distinctly remember the present Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court, having said, when he was politicking in the election campaign of March last year, that inflation could be beaten to a substantial degree State by State. Of course,  Sir Charles  Court had long asserted that economic conditions in Western Australia bore no relationship to economic conditions in the rest of Australia, just as the present Federal Opposition asserts that economic conditions in Australia bear no relationship to economic conditions in the rest of the world. Notwithstanding  Sir Charles  Court's assertion that inflation could be beaten State by State, what has happened since he has been elected is that the consumer price index for Western Australia, which at the time of his election in March 1974 stood at the national average, has rocketed to 58 per cent above the Australian average. For the December quarter of 1974 the consumer price index in Western Australia increased by 6.1 per cent, by far the highest increase of any State and, I emphasise, 58 per cent above the national average. There on record is the achievement of the Liberal politician who, in Opposition, asserted that inflation could be beaten State by State.  His  performance does not measure up to his promises. I warn the Opposition parties that if ever they get the opportunity to attempt to implement the baits which they have dangled or the assertions which they have made they are likely to be about as successful as  Sir Charles  Court has been, if external conditions remain comparable. 
There is a world recession. It has been aggravated and is still being seriously aggravated by the political instability which has hovered in the background of this Parliament ever since Opposition senators took the unprecedented step, broke all conventions and threatened to reject a Supply Bill last April. They were not at all chastened by their defeat in the ensuing election, and ever since they have continually threatened to do precisely the same thing. This week we have seen this push of political pirates, as I think  Senator Hall  described them yesterday, sink into a new depth of infamy and break yet another convention and assert that they are under no obligation to follow the 25-year-old convention to appoint to the Senate someone from the same party as the senator who is leaving the chamber for one reason or another. 
He did. I am not sure whether they are mad or contemptible. They must be one or the other. Although  Mr Snedden  nominally opted out of expressing a view or disaligned himself from the views expressed by his colleague in New South Wales, as the Prime Minister pointed out this morning  Mr Snedden  displayed once again his characteristically strong leadership and has refused to make any effort to dissuade or to prevent the New South Wales Premier taking the immoral and unprecedented action which he has publicly stated he intends to take. The Country Party leader, being the leading political pirate in the country, has enthusiastically supported the Premier of New South Wales. I suggest that  Mr Anthony's  eagerness to get back into government has a great deal to do with the fact that the petroleum price agreement for indigenous oil is to be renewed next September. He is desperate to be in power at the time because he has so many debts to repay to that sector of industry. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  A couple of weeks ago I attended a private party in Canberra at which a strong supporter of the Liberal Party, with the pompous and condescending manner which seems to be characteristic of many Liberal Party supporters, was lecturing me about the current state of the beef market. He informed me that we were having difficulties marketing beef because we had insulted our great and powerful allies. I was disappointed to hear  Senator Baume  repeat that myth in the Senate about an hour ago. The logic falls to the ground. It is true that Australian beef faces a virtual embargo by the European Economic Community, Japan and the United States. It has not been suggested that we have offended in any way members of the EEC or Japan. It has been suggested- there may be some truth in the charge- that we have offended some sections of the political spectrum in the United States, particularly the criminals of Watergate who have since been removed from office. No doubt they were greatly offended by some of the remarks which senior Ministers of this Government made 2 years ago. The logic of the myth falls to the ground when we realise that the United States market is closed not only to Australian beef but to beef from every other country. There are strict quotas. 
But Australian beef was subject to a very strict quota in 1970 when a Liberal-Country Party Government was in power. There was one important difference at that time. We certainly did not insult them.  Mr Anthony,  the Leader of the Country Party, bent over backwards to oblige them. In 1970 he quite nonchalantly informed an executive meeting of the Farmers Union of Western Australia that the Australian Meat Board had employed a lobbyist in Washington to arouse consumer interest and to secure freer entry of Australian beef to the American market. 

 Mr Anthony said that the activities of this lobbyist were so successful that 'we had to call him off'. Precisely who 'we' were was not stated. This lobbyist was employed by the Meat Board, so I assume that the 'we' was the Meat Board acting either on instructions from or in collusion with the Country Party. Apparently  Mr Anthony,  the Country Party and the then Liberal-Country Party coalition Government had no desire to offend administration which was subsequently removed from office as a result of the Watergate scandal. In fact, they bent over backwards ingratiating themselves and grovelling before the administration. In the process they misused the ostensibly independent Australian Meat Board. 
The Opposition's economic policy document, to which  Senator Hall  has referred at some length, contains at least one intriguing reference. On page 2 item 1 5 is 'Immediate policy actions to prevent an excessive and dangerously inflationary growth of the money supply in 1975'. I do not know about 1975, but I know what happened in 1972. In December 1971, against all the advice which was coming from the Treasury, the Reserve Bank of Australia and academic or business economists in Australia, the McMahon Government, the Treasurer of which is the present Leader of the Opposition, caved in under pressure from the Country Party and maintained a grossly under valued dollar for the ensuing 12 months. The result of that irresponsible decision was a net capital inflow of $ 1 ,900m in the next calendar year. In the last quarter of 1972 the money supply exploded at an annual rate of 30 per cent when the economy was already approaching a level of full employment. 
The Opposition's economic policy document contains a number of internal contradictions but more importantly I believe that there would be a great difference between what the document asserts and what a Liberal-Country Party coalition under pressure or under blackmail from its Country Party rump would actually do if it were in power. A similar situation applies to the comments in the document on government spending. It speaks of reductions in government spending at the same time as Opposition members, including front benchers, travel around Australia advocating more money for the States, more money for defence, subsidies galore and tax concessions galore. All those things can do nothing but increase the size of the deficit which  Mr Anthony  states must be reduced. While on the subject of  Mr Anthony,  it is interesting to note that in Perth only last week he presented in the same statement his old demand that the Budget deficit must be reduced and 6 specific proposals which would have increased the size of the deficit. It is not surprising that there is a good deal of contradiction and inconsistency. In this chamber and in the other place we have  Senator Carrick  who must be one of the finest exponents of Tudor economics which this Parliament has seen, the free trading laissez-faire member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and the Country Party's agricultural fundamentals who assert that agriculture is the backbone of the country notwithstanding the fact that it employs less than 10 per cent of the work force and produces less than 1 0 per cent of the gross national product. 
But the most intriguing of all the Opposition's economic analyses is that presented recently by  Mr Lynch  who subscribes apparently to a conspiracy theory of economic management. In a Press release dated 15 January this year  Mr Lynch  referred to 'Marx's comment that the most effective way to destroy established society is to grind it between the twin millstones of taxation and inflation'. I consulted a number of Marxian scholars from the far Right to the far Left in an attempt to discover the source of Marx 's alleged dictum. The answer in every case was what I expected. None of Marx's writings contain that statement or anything remotely resembling it. The only known source of  Mr Lynch  's conspiratorial view on economic phenomena is the assorted publications of the League of Rights and in particular the paranoic scribblings of its director, Eric D. Butler, Australia 's most verbose anti-Semite and author of 'The International Jew', Australia's antiSemite's bible. 
In the time that remains I would like to mention a few of the matters contained. in the document written by the man who appears to be  Mr Lynch  's historical guru or historical astrologer.  Mr Butler  informs us that the Jews controlled the Nazi movement, that Adolf Hitler was the illegitimate son of Baron Rothschild, that the Jews controlled world capitalism, the United States Reserve Bank, the Nazi Luftwaffe and founded the Jesuit order. Another one of his expositions is that Hitler's policy was a Jewish policy; that it helped to further the declared aims of international Jewry in spite of what Hitler said about international Jewry. This comes from the same pen as the alleged Marxian quotation which  Mr Lynch,  either in ignorance or for other reasons, repeats and circulates throughout Australia. 
Of course it is well known that the Country Party in Queensland is barely distinguishable from the League of Rights, but now apparently the virus has infected the upper echelons of the Liberal Party. I ask: Can we now anticipate the publication of a new edition of the protocols of the learned elders of Zion? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Has he seen the report of  Sir Charles  Court's address to American millionaires in New York in which he stated, among other things, that market forces should be allowed to determine prices and that academic would-be price fixers do not know what they are talking about? Do  Sir Charles  Court and apparently others on the Opposition benches who are now interjecting advocate transport subsidies for mining companies, subsidies for superphosphate and subsidies for petroleum exploration, to mention just a few, the avowed purpose of which is to prevent market forces determining prices? Are  Sir Charles  Court and apparently several members of the Opposition incapable of recognising their own contradictions or are the academic would-be price fixers not the only people who do not know what they are talking about? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, follows the question asked by  Senator Poyser  regarding  Mr Anthony's  persistent demands that Australian oil prices be increased by 40 per cent. Does  Mr Anthony  rationalise his claim by asserting that this massive price increase is essential to stimulate oil exploration? If  Mr Anthony's  demands were met, would there be any guarantee that Esso-BHP would actually spend any of its multimillion dollar windfall on oil exploration? Is there any logic in  Mr Anthony's  assertion that the best way to stimulate the search for oil would be to pay higher prices for oil that has already been discovered? Would not the most certain way of stimulating oil search be to direct money into the Petroleum and Minerals Authority which  Mr Anthony  says should be abolished? 

 -Mr President - 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. I refer to the stated intention of the Premier of Queensland to force Japan to buy Queensland beef in exchange for Queensland coal. What would be the effects of his policy on (a) Australian mineral exports and (b) beef producers in Western Australia or any other State? Are the federal leaders of the Liberal Party and the Country Party obliged to issue a firm and public repudiation of the Queensland Premier's incursion into Australian overseas trade policy? Have they done so? 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation in response to remarks made about me in the House of Representatives last Thursday in a personal explanation by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair). 

 - Mr Sinclair claimed that a letter written by me and published in the 'Financial Review' of 13 February 1975 contained statements that were untrue. The statements in question were that there was a long history of government interference in wheat marketing and that the previous government had interfered in the Australian Wheat Board's sales to Chile following the election of  President  Allende. The history of government interference in Wheat Board affairs goes back at least to 1967 when a member of the Wheat Board,  Mr H.  F. Smith, reported to a Farmers Union meeting in Perth that the Government had instructed a Board delegation to deliver a note to representatives of the People's Republic of China in Hong Kong. The note stated that the Government would intervene and terminate Australia-China wheat trade unless China complied with certain political demands. I supplied full details of this incident to the Senate on 25 September 1974. 
In August 1972 1 made a statutory declaration in Perth. It was covered by the Australian Broadcasting Commission's radio program 'A.M.'. When asked by the Australian Broadcasting Commission whether the declaration was correct,  Mr Sinclair  stated that he could not remember the details of the 1967 incident. In the House last Thursday he stated: 
There was no Government interference with respect to any sales undertaken by the Australian Wheat Board either while I was Minister for Primary Industry or at any time while I was in the previous Ministry. 
My sources of information regarding Government directives to the Wheat Board on sales to Chile after  President  Allende 's election was the Australian Broadcasting Commission's radio program 'Country Hour' broadcast by an official of the Western Australian Farmers Union on 3 1 October 1973. Last Thursday  Mr Sinclair  denied that there had been any directive to the Board but did state: 
There was a negotiation between the Wheat Board and the Government while I was Minister for Primary Industry relating to the degree to which Export Payments Insurance Corporation cover would be accorded to the wheat that the Wheat Board wished to sell to Chile. 

 Mr C. M. Toop,  deputy  manager of the Export Finance Insurance Corporation, formerly called Export Payments Insurance Corporation, explicitly stated under oath in Sydney last Friday at a public hearing of the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade that neither the present nor the previous Government had any such negotiations with Export Finance Insurance Corporation or Export Payments Insurance Corporation regarding the acceptance of export finance risks, nor did or does the Government have power to negotiate. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. In regard to the statement of the New South Wales Premier,  Mr Lewis,  that he may appoint a political neuter to fill the Senate vacancy, is there any truth in the allegation that following certain incidents in the House of Representatives yesterday  Mr Lewis  has decided to appoint the right honourable member for Bruce? 

 - Mr President, I speak in support of this Bill. I had hoped that it would not have been necessary for the Government to put up a case in this debate; I had hoped that the Bill would be carried. However, I understand that  Senator Hall  has made known his intention to vote against the Bill, not because he objects to the major clause in it, which compels political parties to disclose the sources of their funds, but because he has some reservations about some of the supplementary clauses. I suggest, in passing, that it seems to me that it would be more appropriate to amend the 
Bill in the Committee stage than to reject the Bill on the motion for the second reading which, I understand, is what the Opposition intends to do.  Senator Hall's  support of this Bill was crucial. Had the Government had his support I would have taken it for granted that this Bill would have been carried because  Senator Webster  is on record in Hansard of 26 September 1974 as stating that he would support it. 
-I will. I shall quote from Hansard. On that day I referred to allegations made by members of the Liberal Party that McEwen House had been financed by subscriptions from featherbedded Australian manufacturers. I shall quote what  Senator Webster  is reported as having said at page 1475 of Hansard. The record states: 

 - Senator Webster has indicated that he is anxious to have political parties disclose the sources of their funds. I understand that in the not too distant future the Government intends introducing into the Senate legislation which will oblige political parties to do just that. I eagerly anticipate  Senator Webster's  full support for that legislation when it comes before the Senate. 

 -If Senator Webster still shares that concern or still holds suspicions about suspect sources of funds for political parties which he expressed on that occasion about contributions to Labor Party funds, I again invite him to vote for this Bill. I also invite him, as an honourable senator, to stand by the undertaking he gave on 26 September 1974 to vote for this Bill. 
-This Bill will compel political parties to disclose any substantial contributions to their funds. The purpose of the Bill was summed up very succinctly in the House of Representatives on 13 February by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  He said: 
In summary, what does this Bill seek to do? It seeks to require all candidates for Parliament to disclose from what  sources they receive financial support. It also requires all political parties to disclose from what sources they receive support. 
I compliment the very erudite member for Moreton on that succinct and accurate summary of the purposes of this Bill. I regret, in passing, that the quality of the remainder of his address on this subject did not live up to that high initial expectation. In fact the whole case presented by the Opposition against this Bill - 
Would you like to see my notes,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack? This speech has not been written. 
I read from Hansard. I think that is necessary in the interests of accuracy. It is better to read from Hansard than to rely upon memory. The Opposition's entire case against this legislation consists of reams of sophistry spiced with contradictions, quibbling and double thinking. A prime example of a contradiction came from the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  on 13 February when he said this in the House of Representatives: 
Personally, I have no objection to making public the donations to political parties. I am proud of the money that flows into Country Party funds. 
The final sentence of his speech was: 
I oppose this Bill as strongly as I possibly can. 
When replying in the House of Representatives the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is in charge of electoral affairs and who was handling the Bill, quoted the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  as having said on an earlier occasion: 'We will support this legislation'.  Mr Daly  stated: 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is on record, as mentioned by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  at the same time as saying: We have nothing to fear in this legislation and will make only a minor amendment to see that such donations are tax deductible'. 
So much for the contradictions, for the double thinking. Among the reams of sophistry which the Opposition has presented as an apology for a case against this Bill, there are a number of references to the freedom of the voter. It is suggested, in some way which is never spelled out, that passing this legislation will impinge upon the freedom of the voter to record a free and secret vote and so on, and upon the freedom of people to stand for Parliament. One may have a genuine respect for people who genuinely respect the freedom of the individual even when the alleged threats to that freedom are so remote that they would seem to be innocuous. When members of the Opposition- members of the Liberal and Country Parties- who enacted a conscription law in 1964 talk about freedom of the individual, they should be and will be greeted with ridicule and contempt. In the eyes of members of the Opposition, freedom is rights. They have no concept of human rights. They recognise only property rights. At the very least their belief is that property rights must take priority over human rights. I defy any member of the Opposition who claims to respect the rights and the liberties of the individual to rationalise the introduction by their Parties of conscription in 1964 and in maintaining it until they were thrown out of office on 2 December 1972.  Senator Withers  carried this web of fantasy somewhat further last night when he said: 
One of the problems of bringing about the registration of political parties- we have seen this happen in many countriesis that what tends to happen is that eventually only two or maybe three parties are allowed to register. 
That was  Senator Withers'  contribution to the web of fantasy which was woven as a substitute for a case against the legislation. I defy him or any other Opposition senator to point to a clause in this Bill which enables the implementation of the suggestion that  Senator Withers  made, namely, that the number of parties will be restricted to one or two or ultimately to one. The definition of 'party', which is given quite clearly on page 3 of the Bill, is: 
Party' means a body or organisation, incorporated or unincorporated, having as one of its objects or activities the promotion of the election to the Parliament of a candidate or candidates endorsed by it or by a body or organisation of which it forms a part. 
So much for the objections to parties and to the suggestion that in some vague way or in some totally nebulous way the Bill will restrict the number of parties which can contest elections. The quibbling was about minor points such as whether the amount allowed should be 7.5c, 6.5c or 3.5c for specified elections.  Senator Withers  carried the argument a little further when he said that the amount was arbitrary. Of course it is. How could it be anything else? What does  Senator Withers  think the provisions in the Electoral Act are if they are not arbitrary? The provisions state that a candidate for the House of Representatives may not spend or may not have spent on his behalf more than $500 in an election campaign, and that a candidate for the Senate may not spend more than $1,000. Are not those provisions arbitrary? Did  Senator Withers  or his Party ever move when they were in office to change in any way those arbitrary provisions in the Act? Moreover, did  Senator Withers  or any other upholder of law and order who sits on the Opposition benches ever suggest that action be taken against those candidates for the Senate or the House of Representatives who flagrantly violated those provisions election after election? 
When we get away from the sophistry, the casuistry, the quibbling and the contradictions, we come to the real reasons the Opposition Parties are opposing this Bill. They were hinted at by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  in the debate in the House of Representatives on 13 February. I regret that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has left the chamber. If he had not he could have seen me reading from Hansard again.  Mr Howard  claimed that legislation aimed at limiting expenditure or disclosing sources of funds would be ineffective. He is reported on page 309 in this way: 
Does he . . . 
He was referring to the Minister for Services and Property - 
. recall that it was the United States of America with the most complicated laws for the disclosure of political funds which suffered the tragic experience of the fate of both the  President  and the Vice-President? 
I think  Mr Howard  was getting close to the real objections which the Opposition has to this Bill, namely, that it would enable malpractice to be exposed. He seemed to be expressing the regret of the Opposition parties that former VicePresident Agnew and former  President  Nixon had been found out because of laws in the United States similar to this proposed law. It is not surprising that members of the Opposition who were bosom friends of  President  Nixon and the criminals of Watergate up to the time that they were finally exposed and forced from office should regret the existence of the laws which made that exposure possible and attempt to prevent the introduction of such laws in Australia. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  developed the same theme. I understand that he is an ex-patron of the League of Rights. When speaking to the provisions of this Bill he said, as appears on page 295: 
It would more seriously affect the Liberal and Country parties than it would the Labor Party. Let us be frank about this. 
Let us be frank indeed. Last night  Senator Withers  spoke also of the advantages which being in government give to a political party. I doubt whether this claim is seriously disputed on either side. The party in government normally has considerable advantages. Anyone who examines the history of the Government of 
Queensland, for example, since the Kingaroy kernel became Premier should be well aware of that fact. Anyone who has witnessed the explosion on the personal staff of the Premier who at the same time has refused additional staff to the Leader of the Opposition, should be well aware that the Party in power has a potential to entrench itself in power by using in its Party electoral interests the power which it commands. The Premier of Queensland has done that more effectively than has any other politician in Australian history. 
At one time I was a little confused as to why the Country Party in particular should be opposed to this legislation, because for many years my Liberal Party friends in Western AustraliaI have quite a few friends in the Liberal Party- have been telling me the most scurrilous stories about graft and corruption within the Country Party. They have told me how John McEwen House was built with subscriptions from the most featherbedded manufacturers in the country. Naturally I was appalled that members of the Liberal Party could be so uncharitable towards their Country Party colleagues as to repeat stories such as that, especially when at that time I doubted whether those stories were even true. At that time I used to think that if the Country Party were ever given the opportunity to vote for a Bill such as this it would do so and then its Liberal Party colleagues no longer would have any credibility when they circulated scurrilous stories about dirty financial dealings within the Country Party. I used to think that the Country Party would support such a Bill. I was appalled that the Liberals would circulate such scurrilous stories about their coalition colleagues. I am no longer appalled, because I now know that the Country Party will not vote for this Bill. Therefore I can only conclude that the stories which my Liberal Party friends used to tell me a few years ago were true. 
That suspicion is strengthened by the attitude of the present Federal Leader of the Country Party,  Mr Anthony- Mr 40  per cent, as I understand he is known these days- towards oil prices.  Mr Anthony's  basic assertion is that we must encourage exploration and drilling in the hope of finding more oil. Many people would agree with that. I understand that many geologists are extremely sceptical about the chances of finding significant quantities of oil on the Australian continent or off-shore. But, leaving that aside,  Mr Anthony  says that we must encourage exploration and drilling in the hope of finding more oil. He then says that the method we should use to encourage this drilling is to increase the price of oil from fields already explored, already drilled and already producing. It should be selfevident that, no matter how high the price of oil to indigenous producers goes, it will not place any more oil in the already discovered Bass Strait field. 
The oil price hike suggested by  Mr Anthony  is tantamount to a tax on Australian consumers. Ostensibly the tax is to finance exploration, but under the proposition  Mr Anthony  has put forward there is no guarantee that any amount of the taxation revenue raised by his suggested 40 per cent petroleum price hike would be used for exploration. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  made this point very clearly yesterday. If taxes are to be used to finance oil exploration or expanded oil exploration, surely the money would be best spent directly on oil exploration. The most effective and direct vehicle for doing this, of course, would be the Petroleum and Minerals Authority which  Mr Anthony  says must be abolished. But, if ideological bigotry on the Opposition side prevents it from using the Petroleum and Minerals Authority- the most effective vehicle for expanding oil exploration or for directing increased taxes on petroleum products into the financing of oil exploration- even the discontinued and discredited subsidy scheme of the previous Government would be more effective and more sensible than what  Mr Anthony  is proposing now. 
The Country Party never was noted for sound logic in its arguments; nor is it particularly noted for the accuracy of its alleged facts. But one thing it is noted for, and always has been noted for, is saying the things that its potential electors like to hear. The truth of the things it says is usually irrelevant, but normally it says the things its electors like to hear. In this case there can be no doubt that none of the Country Party's potential electors, the Liberal Party's potential electors or the Labor Party's potential electors like to be told that they should be made to pay 40 per cent more for petroleum products. This leaves only one possible reason for the Country Party's extraordinary attitude on this question of oil prices and oil exploration. The only possible remaining reason is that the Country Party is under an obligation to the petroleum cartel. No doubt this will be denied. The denials are unconvincing, to say the least. All the Country Party needs to do to resolve this dispute quite decisively is to vote for this Bill. Its failure to do so will be tantamount to an admission of its own guilt. 
My question is directed to  Senator Wriedt  in his capacity as Minister for Agriculture. Has he seen statements from the Leader of the Australian Country Party, issued in Perth, in which the Leader of the Australian Country Party has asserted that the Australian Country Party's firm policy is to have majority producer control of statutory marketing boards? 
Is that policy consistent with legislation introduced by Country Party Ministers when the Liberal-Country Party Government was in power? If not, does the Country Party have one policy when it is in Government and an opposite policy when it is in Opposition, or are Country Party leaders unable to count? 
We have been treated, while debating the second electoral Bill in 2 weeks, to a display by members of the Opposition similar to that which we saw last week. Lacking a rational or logical case to present against the Bill, the Opposition's case degenerates into attempts to paint a frightening picture of the results which will ensue if this legislation is passed.  Senator Withers,  when debating the previous electoral Bill, the Electoral Bill 1975, told us, in some way which was not explained, that if political parties were forced to disclose the sources of their funds it would lead to one party rule. Today  Senator Scott  informed us that, once again in some way which is totally unexplained, if a Bill is passed which compels the Senate to have elections simultaneously with elections for the House of Representatives it will lead to totalitarianism. 
I was also amused to hear  Senator Scott's  pontificating about accepting the decisions of the people. I suggest that gratuitous advice directed towards politicians on accepting the decisions of the people would be best directed to the leader of his own Party,  Mr Anthony,  and the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  who do not yet appear to have accepted the decision that the people made in May 1974. They did not accept it in May 1974; they did not accept it in June; they did not accept it in October or November; and they do not accept it now. It ill behoves members of the Opposition to lecture our Party, the 
Government Party, on the virtues of accepting the decisions of the people. 
The standard reasons why this legislation is necessary have been fairly clearly detailed in the second reading speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee).  Of course it is much simpler to hold elections conjointly. It leads to more stable government in a time of unprecendented instability of government in Australia, and of course it was recommended very strongly by an all-party committee in 1959. As well as the self evident reasons for synchronising elections in the House of Representatives and the Senate, ever since May last year there has been another particularly compelling reason why this should be done. If elections are not synchronised and if the Government does not have the qualifications to force a double dissolution, having had Bills twice rejected by the Senate, the Senate can reject a Supply Bill and force the House of Representatives and the Government to an election without exposing itself to the verdict of the electors. Prior to May 1974 it may have seemed that this was not very important, but since we have witnessed that reckless grab for power last year it has become important that, if the Senate is to reject Supply, at least some of the senators who vote to reject Supply present themselves to the electors as well as forcing the Government and the House of Representatives to face the electors. 
I have read the substitute for an argument presented in the House of Representatives once again, I regret to say, by the erudite honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  It is very hard on the honourable member for Moreton to be continually handed these lame duck cases to present by his Party. I presume that it picked its most eloquent  speaker  because it realised that it never had a case so it would have to have a very eloquent  speaker  to try to conceal the fact that it did not have a case. On the one hand the honourable member for Moreton lambasted the Government for re-presenting this referendum question which was rejected by the people only 10 or 11 months before by a small margin. He then proceeded to ask why the Government did not re-present all 4 questions it presented at the May referendums. On the one hand he said: Why are you presenting the one?' On the other hand he said: 'Why have you not presented four instead of re-presenting the question which was defeated in the referendum by a very narrow margin?' I must confess that I could not follow his logic. 
I have endeavoured to check what I am about to put as an added reason why the Senate should support this Bill. Unfortunately I have not been able to do so. I have not been able to obtain a copy of the relevant document, but I have been informed- and I see no reason to doubt the accuracy of this information- that the Liberal Party's official platform states that elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate should be synchronised. If that is the case- I cannot be certain, as I have mentioned, because I have not been able to procure the relevant document- as I have been reliably informed that it is, I think that the members of the Liberal Party at least have a very heavy responsibility to explain to the Senate why they believe that in this instance their platform should be disregarded. 

 Senator Wood's comment, of which unfortunately I heard only the tail end, appeared in parts to have very little to do with the Bill which is before the Senate. I note that he also, like  Mr Killen,  complained about the Government's resubmitting this piece of legislation only 10 months after it had previously been submitted to the people by way of referendum. The obvious reason of course is that it is a very good Bill which seeks to enact a very necessary law. Over and beyond that- I am sure that privately members of the Opposition would acknowledge thisthe circumstances which existed at the time of the May 1974 elections and referendums were such that the electorate was overwhelmingly involved in the question of the election for the survival, the return or the defeat of the Government. The referendum questions received little informative ventilation and little informative discussion. It is unfortunate that there is a tendency in all referendums for this to happen. The people do not really understand what the issues are about, and there is a tendency when in doubt to vote no. 
In the case of these referendums the normal dangers of misunderstanding were exacerbated by the lies- I use that word advisedly- which were contained in the official 'No' case circulated by the Electoral Office in opposition to one of the referendum proposals. The deliberate lie did not refer to this Bill, but all the questions were associated with the same pamphlet and the same campaign. It referred to the referendum on the question of having electorates with equal population. The official 'No' case, which I presume was endorsed by at least the majority of the members of the Opposition in this chamber and /or in the House of Representatives, argued that it was not appropriate to have electorate sizes determined by population instead of enrolment. That is certainly a point of view that has a good deal to commend it and they were quite entitled to argue in that way. The case then went on to state: 
Equal numbers of electors, which is what we have now . . . 
That, I repeat, was a conscious and deliberate lie perpetrated by members of the Opposition and circulated by the Electoral Office at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. I place on record in the Senate a query of the Minister representing the Attorney-General as to whether there is any provision in the Electoral Act to prevent the circulation, in official publications, of blatant lies of this nature. 
I mention that incident to supplement the argument that there was a very confused, emotional and heady situation existing in May 1 974. The referendum questions were not properly understood. They were all defeated. The one we are considering now was defeated by a very narrow margin only. It-was defeated by a margin somewhat greater in terms of absolute numbers of votes cast than the margin by which the Opposition was defeated by the Government. I emphasise that it was only slightly greater. Because it is such an innately logical Bill and no rational case can be presented against it, the Government has decided that the people once again should be given an opportunity to express their will on this issue. The members of the Opposition claim to represent the permanent will of the people. The adversaries of  Senator Hall  in South Australia used to refer to their representation of the permanent will of the people, and  Senator Wood  seemed to go close to accepting that belief. Those members of the Opposition who claim to know and represent the permanent will of the people will vote against this Bill and prevent the people from expressing that will. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Has he seen the 'Financial Review' article in which the Leader of the Austraiian Country Party in the House of Representatives asserted that there was no way in which the Senate Opposition would pass an appropriation Bill to fund Medibank? In view of this article, can the Leader of the minority Opposition party in the House of Representatives now be regarded as a pre-emptive spokesman for the joint Opposition parties and the self-proclaimed, allegedly selfdirected guardians of State interests who populate the Opposition benches in this allegedly independent House of review? 

 - Mr President. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.44 to 8 p.m. 

 - Senator Cotton in his remarks before the suspension for dinner explained in a calm and rational way the central purpose of this Bill. He also made some comments on his belief, and presumably his Party's belief, that the medium and longer term future for the beef industry was basically sound. I am sure that that is a belief in which the Government concurs and is in fact the main motivating force for this Appropriation Bill being presented to the Senate tonight. The calm and reasonable comments of  Senator Cotton,  however, are in marked contrast to a number of other comments about the present condition of the beef industry, the causes of its current problems and the appropriate remedies which the Government should adopt to deal with those problems. In particular, his comments are in marked contrast to the strident overreactions both past and present, which are put forward principally by the Country Party and are in marked contrast to the series of rather inept panaceas thrown out by its collective disoriented thought processes. Speaking on this Bill in the House of Representatives the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  stated- and I quote from Hansard of 20 February: 
Only 12 months ago we were told that the beef industry was likely to be one of the more profitable continuing industries. 

 Mr Sinclair neglected to mention the sources of the belief which was so prevalent 12 and 18 months ago that the future of the beef industry was so buoyant. I can well understand his reluctance to mention the sources of that belief, which was so vociferously canvassed at the time because the major source of that belief was in fact his own leader,  Mr Anthony. Mr Anthony  issued a statement on behalf of the Australian Country Party which was a summary of a submission presented by that Party to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. It stated: 
The Country Party believes that Government policy inasmuch as it relates to the beef industry should be directed to: 
the encouragement of production. 
He went on to state: 
If, as appears likely, a world beef shortage is developing, then Australia must respond in the most effective manner possible to meet this position. 
The date of that statement is August 1973. In other statements made at about the same time, for example, on 24 August 1 973 in an address to the Agricultural Machinery Exhibition at Gunnedah, New South Wales,  Mr Anthony  stated: 
As incomes rise demand for meat will rise. In fact, I think demand will rise so fast that we'll be flat out trying to keep up with it. The thing that will most help us to meet the demand will be encouragement of higher production- and if people will restrain themselves from doing silly things about meat prices, production will rise quickly. 
In the same address he went on to state: 
There will be industries for which production increases will be the appropriate policy at particular times. The meat industry, the wheat industry and the wool industry are current examples. 
In yet another of the many statements he made at the time- this was a Press statement on the Budget, issued on 21 August 1973-  Mr Anthony  concluded his statement by explaining: 
At a time when production should be encouraged and decentralisation encouraged, the Government's strategy is to reallocate resources away from the rural sector. 
In a statement in the next month, on 13 September 1973,  Mr Anthony  concluded that statement by saying: 
At a time when the urgent need is for stimulation of meat production, the Government seems to be going out of its way to find ways of discouraging production. 
As we all know- apparently even  Senator Marriott  now knows- the prophecies of the Leader of the Country Party were wildly wrong. The gratuitous advice that he issued so freely to the Government at about that time could not have been more inept. Dazzled by  Mr Anthony's  visions of a glorious future in which the only blemish was an alleged socialistcentralist government, which oddly enough at that time opted in respect of this industry for the laws of the market to be free to operate but which declined to offer all sorts of incentives to promote even further the boom in cattle prices, beef men generally increased their herds. They refrained from selling at the very high prices which were then available and which, I remind the Senate, were still available as recently as 10 months ago. 
Granted that hindsight is a valuable weapon, in retrospect what the beef industry really needed at that time was some sort of massive disincentive to dampen down the boom. If anything could have induced growers to sell their surplus stock at that particular time to take advantage of the very high prices which were then available, it would ultimately have been to the advantage of the beef industry itself and to Australia and the beef industry would not be in its current position where prices are very seriously depressed and where cattle numbers have leapt alarmingly in the last 2 or 3 years. I refer to an article in the 'Financial Review' last Monday citing not only the increase in the beef cattle herd but also the accelerating rate of increase which was from 27.4 million in March 1972, to 29.1 million in March 1973, to 31.2 million in March 1 974 to a projected 36 million at the end of March this year. Apart from its current financial position, there could well be a serious biological problem for the beef industry if the rains are below normal throughout the major grazing areas of Australia, which emphasises that what the beef industry really needed in 1973 was the reverse of what  Mr Anthony  and practically all of his colleagues asserted so stridently it needed. 
Beef growers caught up in the Anthonypromoted boom got themselves into what ultimately became severe financial difficulties by paying ludicrously high prices for cattle to increast their herd numbers. Beef producers caught in this situation are probably the most seriously affected now. When the downturn did come- granted it was more savage than anyone had expected- it was greeted with increasingly vociferous demands from the apostles of free enterprise who populate the Opposition benches in this chamber and in the other place for government intervention to protect producers from the harsh realities of the market place. The people who asserted so shrilly only 12 to 18 months ago 'hands off the free market, leave the beef industry alone ' are now demanding government intervention. It is perhaps the most classic example we are ever likely to experience in action of the philosophy of capitalising gains and socialising losses. All this confusion into which the apostles of free enterprise have been thrust by this very sudden and, by then, extremely unexpected downturn in the market has induced a number of ill considered assertions, to say the least. Without doubt the prize for the most ill considered assertion must go to the Premier of Queensland who on 14 February in an interview broadcast by the Australian Broadcasting Commission on its 'AM' program reiterated his earlier demands of 8 November. I quote from the transcript of that broadcast.  Mr BjelkePetersen  said: 
It cannot continue this one way traffic as far as selling justerour minerals here in this State indeed Australia. We, we've got other things and I believe if they need meat and I 'm sure they do they should think in terms of their good friends and their good customers in this area where they buy this vast quantity of coal that is so vital to them, that they should think of us to buy our meat, not New Zealand, noter Tasmania- 
I draw  Senator Marriott's  attention to that- 
This is all I'm trying to . . . the message I'm trying to get over to them, they, they recognise that they . . . I'm quite sure. 
That is how it came off the transcript. That is how it was stated. 
Yes, indulging once again in the lucid prose for which he has become famous. This was the famous beef for coal trade resources blackmail, to use one the various names with which it was subsequently dubbed. To his very great credit the  Deputy  Premier and Treasurer of Queensland and Leader of the Parliamentary Liberal Party,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, promptly disowned his own Premier's very reckless entry into the area of resources diplomacy. He was also disowned in somewhat stronger terms by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  who is quoted in the 'Australian ' of 24 February as stating: 
Logic indicates that this son of blackmail ultimately leads to war. Only a fool would disregard the lessons of history. 
Only a fool, indeed. Unfortunately not all members of the Liberal Party displayed such good taste and discretion. The Premier of my own State, rather predictably perhaps in view of his recent antics in his apparent attempt to demonstrate who has the hairiest chest in all of Liberaldom and who was the most effective Whitlam.basher in Australia, in response to a very temperately worded Press statement from a number of Western Australian back benchers who appealed to him- that was the word used- to use his influence with the Premier of Queensland and try to persuade him not to proceed with this reckless endeavour, responded with a broadside in which he firstly asserted that, of course,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was not talking about Queensland beef but was talking about Australian beef, notwithstanding the fact that he is on record not once but twice in the 'AM' program as specifically excluding Tasmanian beef from the area of his comments and, secondly, assured the Western Australian members that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was held in much higher regard in Japan than the present Federal government. Unfortunately for  Sir Charles,  on record at the time he made that statement was an ABC television 7 p.m. news bulletin on 18 February which stated: 
In Tokyo a spokesman for Mitsui- 
We all know what Mitsui is-  said his company was in complete agreement with  Mr Connor's  criticism of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  The spokesman described as 'welcome and appropriate'  Mr Connor's  statement that the Queensland Premier has insulted the Japanese. 
From the 'Courier-Mail' of 27 February, also on record at the time  Sir Charles  made his hasty and ill-considered statement, is this report: 
Two Japanese visitors discreetly warned the Queensland Premier  (Mr Bjelke-Petersen)  yesterday about his coal- beef threat. 
They said that resources diplomacy, if taken to the ultimate, could be dangerous. 
Further on the article continues: 
The warning was given by two Japanese authorities on political and economic affairs, Professor T.  Yano  and Professor S.  Ichimura  of the South-East Asian Studies Centre, Kyoto University. 
This report appears in the 'Australian' newspaper of 1 March 1975: 
Japanese businessmen are concerned about trade relations with Australia as a result of the threat by the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  to use resources diplomacy to sell Queensland beef. 
I ask honourable senators to note that the article says 'Queensland beef- 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen said recently he would insist on longterm contracts to sell Queensland beef to the Japanese in return for coal sales to Japan. 

 Mr Tosho Takai,  the executive vicepresident of a major Japanese electrical industries association, said this in Canberra yesterday. 
So the score for the Liberal Party was two on the side of sanity and one against. The Country Party's score is not so good. From 'Queensland Country Life' of 27 February 1975- this is after some of the reports had come through- I read the following extract: 

 Mr Sinclair gave solid backing to the State Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  regarding coal- beef trading with Japan. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs,  Mr McVeigh,  is recorded in Hansard of 20 February 1975 as saying in the debate in that place on this same Bill: 
We cannot accept the principle that resources diplomacy is a one-sided arrangement. We cannot accept that another country can enter the Australian market, can take what it wants and cannot be expected to have conditions placed on it as to what else it buys as part of an overall package in a mixed bag economy. It is essential therefore that the Premier of Queensland be encouraged in his statesman-like approach to preserve the rights of the Queensland beef producers. 
Of a somewhat lower order of irrationality are a number of other suggestions which have been thrown around from time to time, many of which are still thrown around by assorted other spokesmen for the Opposition Parties, principally, once again the Country Party. A favourite which has not been repeated yet in this debate I am glad to say, is that to help the beef industry the Government should restore taxation concessions for land development, soil and water conservation and things like that. I have never been able to fathom how a tax deduction will be of any financial assistance to people whose real problem is that they have no income. But then, the members of the Country Party stand logic and frequently truth on its head. 
Another suggestion is that the Government should pay an across the board export subsidy on beef. I emphasise that this suggestion is put forward quite strongly by people who are advocates of free enterprise, the market system, allocated resources and above all of the unwisdom of governments, especially socialist centralised governments, attempting to interfere with the free play of market forces. However, my reservations about that suggestion are not based on ideological prejudice but on the probability that it would not work. Given the assumption that the intent is to increase the return to Australian producers, that suggestion is unlikely to work for this reason: In the current marketing situation what the Australian beef exporters face is not price competition but an import embargo. In the jargon of the economists, demand for Australian beef within pretty wide price levels or price parameters is almost totally inelastic. In this sort of situation the most likely recipient of an export subsidy- an across the board export subsidywould be the foreign buyer, particularly the United States of America. That is not simply a sort of conventional or respectable theory of demand price relationships. It is also borne out by empirical evidence. 
It will be recalled that at the end of September 1974 the Australian Government devalued the Australia dollar by 12 per cent. In a normal competitive marketing situation a devaluation is tantamount to paying an export subsidy. It could be expected to have precisely the same effects. What happen to the prices of Australian exports after the devaluation of September 1974 was that wheat prices moved up almost to the full extent of the 12 per cent devaluation. Once again, this was wholly predictable because wheat was being sold in a sellers market. However, what happened to meat prices was that they moved very little, if at all. I cite the figures contained in table 3 on page D-40 of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics paper on the Situation and Outlook of Meat prepared for the Outlook Conference. It shows that the price for meat per cents per kilogram for boneless manufacturing cow beef in the United States market at September 1 974 was 123.2c. In October 1974, after devaluation, the price was 123.9c. This conforms to the statements issued by the Australian Meat Board at that time that the meat price had increased marginallyperhaps of the order of half a cent per kilogram. That was the effect that a devaluation of 12 per cent had on export meat prices. For as long as the current marketing situation lasts it is probable- almost certain- that any further devaluations would have a similar minimal influence on meat prices. 
There may be some justification for applying or using some sort of export incentive on a more selective basis, but to pay a subsidy on an across the board basis on exports would be to provide a gift to the foreign buyer. Likewise, of course, the demand for further devaluations which occasionally crop up, once again principally from members of the Country Party, are likely to have similar effects. Incidentally, to carry the demonstration a little further, when the Australian dollar was revalued in December 1972 and January 1973, because there was an extreme seller's market for meat and wool at that time it appears to have had a minimal influence on the price received by Australian producers for those commodities. I am sure that every member of the Government is concerned about the position into which the beef industry has drifted. But a responsible government could not act upon the suggestions that have been thrown up by members of the Opposition even completely disregarding equity arguments. 
The provision of credit, for better or worse, in this society is normally a function of the banking system, that is, of the private trading banks, the Commonwealth Trading Bank and, in this field, marginally by the pastoral finance houses. The banks are in a highly liquid position and are well placed to supply credit upon normal commercial terms. The credit which is appropriated to the Development Bank under this Bill is of a supplementary nature and is different in kind from the credit that is normally provided by the commercial banking system. As the Minister stated in his opening speech, the main criteria which will determine the eligibility for loans under this appropriation, or the guidelines which the Bank will follow, are: 
In accordance with its banking charter the Development Bank would have regard primarily to the prospects of the applicant becoming or continuing to be successful rather than the value of the security available. 
Of course the value, particularly the market value, of the security available is what the commercial banking system normally looks for. It has been claimed, and no doubt will continue to be claimed, that the amount of finance which the Government has provided is inadequate. That assertion is hard to reconcile with the fact that only about $4m is currently being allocated under the terms of this legislation. The Minister may have more up to date figures and may mention them in his closing remarks, but the last figure I heard was approximately $4m, notwithstanding that the money has been available for more than 2 months. Given that reality, it is difficult to sustain an argument that the amount of finance provided is grossly inadequate. If it should ultimately prove to be inadequate, the Government, if it chooses- I have every reason to expect that it would do so- could submit an appropriation Bill for a further advance. 
It has also been suggested that the interest rate should be at sub-commercial levels. It is even suggested sometimes that there should be no interest charge at all. In this country and, I suppose, in other countries, there is a great mystique which refuses to accept that conceptually an interest charge is the price of finance and which refuses to regard finance as a commodity which can be and is sold in the market place in the same way as any number of other commodities. It just so happens that the price of this commodityfinance, money or credit- is interest. To subsidise the rate of interest is conceptually or ethically no different from subsidising anything else. In other words, those people who argue that finance should be available either at a grossly subcommercial rate of interest or at no rate of interest at all are arguing that there should be a gift from the rest of society to a particular sector of society. I am sure that in some circumstnaces that is a proposition which would not be resisted by this Government. But once again, as with export incentives or export subsidies, if any, surely it is more rational to be selective about the areas in which welfare payments will be made and it is necessary to be more selective than just to make them available on an across-the-board basis so that they would be available to people who perhaps do not even have a liquidity problem, or certainly do not have an asset problem. It could well be that at the tail end of the beef industry, among the last 5 per cent or thereabouts, there may be a case for welfare assistance. In my view, any assistance which is provided on welfare grounds should be provided as welfare and not provided to the whole industry on an across-the-board basis. Apart from the argument about equity as to why society, through the Government, should subsidise particular people who might well have higher levels of income and higher levels of assets or net worth than the people who are doing the subsidising, it is far more effective to direct any given amount of money towards where the need really is than to make it available on an indiscriminate acrosstheboard basis. That is the sort of policy which this Government has pursued since its election and, I trust, will pursue in the future.  Mr President,  I commend the Bill. 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen a statement in the Western Australian Hansard of 18 March, in which the State Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, in reply to a question on notice claimed, among other things, that Western Australia had the lowest inflation rate of all the States during 1974? Is  Sir Charles's  statement true? If not, can the Minister suggest any action by which antiLabor State Premiers can be discouraged from making false statements in their State parliaments? 
Is the Minister for the Media aware of the allegations made by the honourable member for Gippsland that the Australian Broadcasting Commission's news reports are politically biased? I refer particularly to  Mr 
Nixon's allegation of 14 March last and his violent objection to the ABC use of the term 'forces opposing the Saigon Government'.  Mr Nixon  asserted that the ABC should have used the words 'invading communist forces'. Did, in fact, the report in question arise from an attack by Montagnard tribesmen on Saigon Government forces? If so, will the ABC's terminology be far more accurate than that of  Mr Peter  Nixon or, as the 'National Times' prefers to describe him, Spiro Nixon? 
-Did the Minister for Agriculture hear the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Fraser,  say on television this week that wool buyers were staying out of the market and adversely affecting sales because of the delay in announcing a floor price for 1975-76? Is this a fact? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for the Media, concerns statements by  Mr Cowan,  M.L.A. for MerredinYilgarn, and others, that an original plan to erect a 500-watt regional television transmitter near Merredin in Western Australia has been changed and that only a 20-watt transmitter will be erected. These statements were reported extensively in the Merredin 'Mercury' of 12 March. I ask: Have any changes been made to the original television transmitter proposals for the Merredin area? Was there ever a plan to erect a 500-watt transmitter? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDSenator Walsh raised this matter with me privately last week and I told him that I would obtain some information on the subject from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, which is the statutory body responsible to the Parliament for the planning and provision of broadcasting and television services. I have made those inquiries. The Board advises me that the Merredin translator is to be established at the PostmasterGeneral's radio-telephone terminal in the Merredin township. The program source for the translator will be demodulation, at the Merredin radio-telephone terminal, of the signal on the main television bearer from Perth to Kalgoorlie. Effective radiated power of the translator will be 20 watts and an omni-directional aerial will be used. The translator will operate on Channel 10. I emphasise that the foregoing operating conditions remain unchanged from those which originally were determined by the Board about 12 months ago. There has never been any change to the proposed technical operating conditions that I approved, and the Control Board advises that no changes are proposed. The translator is expected to go to air during the last quarter of 1975. 
I preface a question to the Minister for Agriculture by saying that the Minister would no doubt be aware that the Australian Wheat Growers Federation is campaigning for an increase in the first advance payment for wheat to $1.80 a bushel for the 1975-76 harvest. Does the Minister accept the claim that, without the increase, the viability of the wheat industry is threatened and acreage will decline substantially? 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee A relating to the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1974-75 together with the Hansard record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
As is his custom,  Senator Cotton  has given a comprehensive, factual review of the substance of the Supply and Appropriation Bills. In addition, in his rational and unemotional way he has presented his somewhat conservative economic views.  His  comments about an investment allowance as a means of either reducing the deficit or reducing inflation- I am not sure which of those he referred to- were interesting. However, I fail to see how, at least in the short term, the remission of taxation liabilities via a investment allowance could do anything but increase the Budget deficit. What interested me most of all was his apparently complete rejection of the Keynesian belief that increases in Government spending in times of unemployment would act as an economic stimulus. I note in particular that this statement by the honourable senator appears to be diametrically opposed to the views expressed in the other place by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Fraser),  who spoke on 17 April in respect of this Keynesian belief. Referring to the former Treasurer of Australia, Edward Theodore,  Mr Fraser  said: 
Theodore sought to practise that policy in Australia and it would have been better if he had been allowed to do so. Similar policies have worked at different periods in the postwar years. 
Of course, these are uncertain economic times. I think we can all see that no single group has a monopoly of economic wisdom.  Senator Cotton  refrained from launching the type of highly emotive and sub-rational attack on the Government which was launched by his Liberal and Country Party colleagues in the House of Representatives and which I suspect will subsequently be embarked on by Opposition speakers who follow  Senator Cotton. 
In the debate on Appropriation Bill (No. 5) in the House of Representatives there were 2 major features of the Opposition's attack. Opposition members berated the Government, first, for increasing the money supply and, secondly, for allegedly excessive Government spending. It is fascinating to compare this advocacy of fiscal and monetary prudence as expressed particularly by the ex-Liberal leaders,  Mr Snedden  and  Mr McMahon,  on the question of money supply growth. On 1 7 April,  Mr Snedden  said: 1 believe that monetary growth should be cut immediately to IS per cent and subsequently brought down to around 10 per cent annual growth. 

 Mr McMahon spoke at somewhat greater length on the subject and said: 
There are 3 main causes of the changes in the money supply: The rise or fall in our overseas money balances and international credits. 

 Mr McMahon, who was Prime Minister of Australia in 1972 at a time when there was a net capital inflow of $ 1,922m, should certainly be very conscious of the effect of a rapid increase in overseas reserves on domestic money supplies. I trust he is also conscious of the fact that the reason for this dangerous inflow of foreign capital in 1972 was that his Party and Government lacked the intestinal fortitude to stand up to the Country Party in December 1971 when, as it customarily does, it caved into Country Party pressure and, in full knowledge of its error, maintained a grossly under-valued Australian dollar through 1972. The former Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  continued: 
The money supply should increase at about the same rate as gross national product in real terms plus a partial allowance for inflation. 
He also said that the increase in the money supply of as high as 10 per cent should be temporary. Finally, he referred to Treasury bulletin number 69 of 1973 which, he said, pointed out that the economy became swamped with money early in 1973. I wonder why the economy became swamped with money early in 1973. Could it have had something to do with the failure of  Mr McMahon  's Government to stand up to the Australian Country Party on the question of the exchange rate and the subsequent massive inflow of capital in 1972 and early 1973? Could it also perhaps have had something to do with the fact that in the December quarter of 1972, the last quarter of the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government, the money supply, Ml- that is the narrow definition- increased at a rate of 34.6 per cent, or broadly defined as M3, at an annual rate of 29. 1 per cent? So much for fiscal and monetary prudence. Increases in the money supply of that magnitude have not occurred in Australia before or since. Yet we have the man who was the Prime Minister in 1972 and the man who was his Treasurer, lecturing the Government in the House of Representatives on the dangers and the evils of a too rapid increase in the money supply. 
The second leg of the Opposition's attack on the Government was equally spurious. The Opposition berated the Government for allegedly excessive government spending. At different times, at least according to my understanding, members of the Opposition have advocated, and I believe still do, that the Government should spend more in certain areas.  Mr Fraser  himself in a radio broadcast to his own electorate, of course, advocated on 6 October that the floor price for wool should be set not at the 250c per kilogram that it is set at but at 300c per kilogram. The consequence of that policy had the Government chosen to accept it would have been to increase the deficit by about another $100m. I would also remind members of the Country Party, if they were here, that the price support for the wool industry is responsible for about $330m of this year's Budget deficit. I assume that when members of the Country Party criticise the Government for carrying a deficit of this magnitude they are advocating that the Government should withdraw that financial support from the wool industry. I trust that if the members of the Australian Country Party return to the chamber and participate in this debate they will clarify that point for the edification of the Senate and of the electorate. 
It is also my understanding that the Opposition Parties advocate payments of taxpayers' funds to the wealthy A class private schools, that handful of schools which incidentally- I think there are about 66 wealthy A class schools throughout Australia- educated three-quarters of the members of the inner Cabinet of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. Of course it is purely coincidental that that handful of schools educated three-quarters of the members of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. It is my understanding that members of the Opposition advocate payments to these schools which are not being made now. It is also my understanding that they advocate a superphosphate subsidy, the cost of which, depending upon which figure one likes to accept as to the magnitude of the subsidy they advocate, would be somewhere between $60m and $200m. Members of the Opposition certainly advocate a variety of taxation concessions which, as  Dr Coombs  succinctly observed, constitute disguised government expenditure. 1 believe members of the Country Party advocate the payment of a transport subsidy for petroleum products. They advocate an increase in military spending. The advocate more money for the States, more money for roads and more money for rural telephone services. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  also advocates more money for Esso-BHP via a 40 per cent increase in Australian domestic oil prices. If the Opposition does not advocate increased expenditure in any of these areas which I have detailed- it is by no means an exhaustive list- I trust that members of the Opposition will clarify the situation for us now or later in the debate. I assume from the silence from the Opposition benches that they do in fact advocate increased government spending, at least in all of those areas and possibly in many others of which I have not thought. No one tonight or, to my knowledge, in the past has disputed these undertakings which various spokesmen have given on behalf of the Opposition parties to increase government expenditure. 
On the question of reducing government expenditure, the Opposition of course habitually is non-specific. The problem with reductions of government expenditure is that they are always popular providing they remain abstract and merely a meaningless ideal and never become specific or meaningful. There was one exception to this convention observed by all other members of the Opposition not to become specific about the areas where government expenditure should be cut. In the House of Representatives on 17 April the former Leader of the Liberal Party stated: 
The cuts I have spoken of include the big spending but politically sensitive areas of education, health, urban and regional development, and social security. I would exclude only pensions from the economies. 

 Mr Snedden said that only pensions would be excluded from cuts in government expenditure. So  Mr Snedden  stated that he would cut expenditure in all those other areas which I have mentioned. He is also saying, of course, implicitly that there will be no superphosphate bounty should there be a Liberal-Country Party government. This statement is of course in direct conflict with his own statement prior to the 1 974 election. He is also saying that there will be a reduction in the education grant for isolated children. I would be interested to hear the Country Party's comments on that proposition advanced by a former Leader of the Opposition that education grants for isolated children should be reduced and likewise on the proposition that funds for the States and for rural roads would be reduced and presumably that the price support for the wool industry would be liquidated. Once again I ask members of the Opposition here assembled which of the mutually exclusive propositions they support- the proposition of  Mr Snedden  that cuts will be made everywhere except in the areas of pensions or the singularly mutually exclusive proposition that cuts will be made in the funds for the States, roads, postal and telephone services and so on. Again we are greeted with silence. 
That does not surprise me a bit. Of course the Leader of the Opposition has been far more devious, as is his custom, than the former Leader of the Opposition. He asserted that the Opposition is under no obligation to detail the areas in which expenditure cuts will be made. He attempted to support this evasion by repeating in a different form his statement, issued shortly after he became Leader of the Opposition, that the Senate would not reject these Supply Bills. He stated on 1 7 April: 
In the normal course of events, it is still 2 years until there will be an election. 
He argued therefrom that of course the management of the economy is the Government's responsibility for the next 2 years and not the responsibility of the Opposition. There may be a certain superficial plausibility about that point of view but I emphasise that although  Mr Fraser  stated that the Opposition will not reject these Supply Bills he has said nothing about the 1975 Budget, the 1976 Supply Bills or the 1977 Budget. Likewise in the House last week he prefaced his remarks about the Government having 2 years :n office with the phrase 'in the normal course of events'. In other words,  Mr Fraser  has not given a categorical assurance that Supply Bills will not be rejected during the life of this Parliament and, consequently, his argument that it is totally the responsibility of the Government is exposed as a sham and a farce. I repeat to Opposition members who are interjecting, if they support the proposition that Supply Bills will not be rejected, the invitation that  Senator Hall  issued a few weeks ago, namely, to stand in their places and state categorically 'I will not vote against a Supply Bill.' Of COL se, even if  Mr Fraser  had given such an assurance it is highly doubtful whether any weight should have been attached to it. After all, it was  Mr Fraser  who said on 6 February: 
Bill Snedden has my full support ... I support the elected Leader of the Liberal Party . . . There has been wide speculation that I am promoting a challenge to Bill Snedden. That is not so, there is no contest. 
Bill Snedden believed Malcolm Fraser and paid the penalty. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Milliner)-  Order! The honourable senator must refer to  Mr Snedden  as he should. 
I apologise,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  The member for Bruce,  Mr Snedden,  believed  Mr Fraser  and paid the penalty. I might also say in passing that all the 9 Liberal Party members from my own State issued a statement, which was published in the 'Western Australian' on 8 March, which stated inter alia: as Western Australian Liberals we categorically affirm that we stand four square behind the leadership of Bill Snedden'. 
-The Western Australian Liberal senators and the 5 Western Australian Liberal members of the House of Representatives all signed the statement. I do not know how they voted when the contest actually presented itself in the Party room, but I assume that more than one of them anyway voted for  Mr Fraser  and it is generally believed that more than one voted for  Mr Fraser  which, of course, casts some doubts on the value of the stated word not only of the Leader of the Liberal Party and Leader of the Opposition but of at least a significant number of his followers. But nowhere probably has this kind of technique been carried as far as it has been carried in my own State. Supply Bills No. 1 and No. 2 provide some $35 8 m to launch Medibank on 1 July and thereby give expression to the health and medical policy which gestated in the Labor Party in the late 1960s and which was presented to the electorate at the 1 972 election and which was a central feature of the double dissolution election last May. 
In my own State,  Sir Charles  Court and the Government of Western Australia- the two are virtually synonomous- rejected the Australian Government's Medibank offer of 31 December. At that time  Sir Charles,  in common with many other wishful thinkers in the Liberal Party and Country Party, was supremely confident that the Opposition would reject the Supply Bills and that the Whitlam Government would be defeated in a mid-year election, that Medibank would be aborted and that he would be acclaimed by his fellow obstructionists in the non-Labor States as a hairy-chested and successful Canberra basher. In assuming all those things  Sir Charles  made a monumental miscalculation from which he is now furiously backing away. As late as 23 February last, in the 'Sunday Times',  Sir Charles  is reported as stating, with respect to Medibank: 
There are times when other matters including the vital principle of personal freedom of choice transcend matters of dollars and cents. 
According to the 'West Australian' just 3 weeks later  Sir Charles  contradicted that statement by saying: 
The State Government wanted to know more about the costs involved in Medibank before becoming committed to the scheme. 
Only a few days before  Sir Charles  made that statement the Health Minister in the State Government,  Mr Baxter,  had unilaterally cancelled a meeting with  Mr Hayden  that was scheduled for the 1 8th. 
The cost to Western Australia of  Sir Charles'  rejection of Medibank, that is, the individual and collective cost- individual to the citizen and collective to the State Treasury- was in a full year about $40m. Faced with reality and with the subsequent knowledge that, because of the factional fighting within the Liberal Party and the blood letting in mid-March, the Liberal Party was in no condition to reject the Supply Bills or to face an election, and the consequential facts that Medibank would be funded in the Supply Bills and would be operative from 1 July, and knowing that the people of Western Australia would, when they became informed, turn in anger on the government responsible for the State's nonparticipation, and knowing that his monumental miscalculation about the future of the Whitlam Government was the direct cause of his dilemma,  Sir Charles  Court and his Government sought protection from retribution by throwing up a smokescreen of blatant untruths. 
They embarked on an orgy of 'Newspeak'. The first dispenser of 'Newspeak' was the State Health Minister,  Mr Baxter,  who stated, according to the 'West Australian' of 14 March that he had squeezed three important concessions out of  Mr Hayden.  The alleged important concessions were, first, that Medibank costs would not be offset against normal tax reimbursements to the States. That, of course, had been explicitly stated by  Mr Hayden  numerous times but since  Mr Baxter  had refused to talk to  Mr Hayden  he had not heard it first hand, and since, presumably, he either does not bother to read or is incapable of reading and comprehending, he had failed to pick it up from any other source. It was also stated that the State Government by diligent negotiations had secured a 5-year agreement instead of a 2-year agreement. I understand that  Mr Hayden  would be quite happy to sign a 10-year agreement, and has always been of that view. 
The third concession was that any residual gap between the private health insurance refund and the doctor's bill would remain tax deductible. This,  Mr Baxter  said, was a concession he had managed to screw out of that big bad ogre in Canberra, Bill Hayden. The tax deductibility of these items has always been included in the scheme. In the White Paper it was explicitly stated that these items would remain tax deductible. 
The next to join in this orgy of misrepresentation, of the throwing up of a smokescreen of misrepresentation, was the Premier himself who, in the political notes of 8 April 1975 published in the ' West Australian ' claimed: 
The Commonwealth .... is at least beginning to recognise what we have always insisted must be the proper, acceptable application of its Medibank proposals. 
He went on to refer to what he called the grave faults and inconsistencies in the Commonwealth's, and  Mr Hayden  's, proposed scheme. Then, with characteristic bombast he stated: 
We have preserved the traditional doctor-patient relationship . . . 
The facts behind this Court-concocted fantasy are as follows: As far back as November 1971, in an address to the Victorian Branch of the Australian Medical Association,  Mr Hayden  said:  . . Labor's scheme is based on the fee-for-service principle: private practice; freedom of patient to select his own private practitioner; and preservation of doctor-patient relationship. 

 Mr Hayden has repeated that assurance in every major speech and in every publication on this subject since he became Minister. For example, in August 1973, in a speech in Hobart he described it as an ironclad guarantee.  Sir Charles  Court, who is not and never has been a man to be unduly confused by facts, continued and said: 
We have cleared the way for the continued operation of health insurance organisations . . . 
The Green Paper on the health insurance program of April 1 973 did recommend that private health insurance be prohibited but in a Press statement issued on 18 September 1973  Mr Hayden  said:  . . I have advised the Prime Minister that I will recommend that this paragraph not be adopted. 

 Mr Hayden 's recommendation was accepted. The White Paper of November 1973 stated: 
Private health insurance funds will be able to offer coverage against the costs of intermediate and private hospital accommodation, and medical costs to the extent that they are not covered by benefits under the program. 
Likewise tax deductibility is another concession which the State government claimed to have screwed out of  Mr Hayden.  The Minister had stated explicitly on a number of occasions that tax deductibility will apply.  Sir Charles  Court went on to claim:  . . we have safeguarded the automony of private hospitals . . . 
This also was printed in the White Paper. It was guaranteed in the publication issued  Vh  years ago. This begs a number of questions. Does  Sir Charles  Court hear voices in the air? Are his beliefs conceived by demons in his own mind, or is it simply that he has no respect for the truth? An incident in the Legislative Assembly of Western Australia on 18 March strongly confirmed the last alternative. Before the 1974 State election  Sir Charles  Court claimed that he could, as he said, put things right', and said: 'Inflation to a substantial degree can be beaten State by State'. In reply to a question on notice from the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Tonkin,  asking whether Western Australia, under  Sir Charles'  Government, had the highest inflation rate in Australia,  Sir Charles  stated: 
The increase in Perth over the whole of 1974 was 14 per cent against 15 per cent or more in every other capital city giving us the lowest inflation rate of all the States during the year. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Milliner)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. I draw attention to the fact that  Senator Bunton  is to make his maiden speech to the Senate. I know that it is unnecessary for me to remind honourable senators to extend to him the customary courtesy. 
I address my question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I ask: Can the Minister say whether the provision in Australia for natural disaster crop and livestock insurance compares favourably with that available in other countries? Does the Minister consider this type of insurance to be an important means of ensuring the stability of farm income, which is essential to the wellbeing of Australian farmers? 
My question to the Minister for Agriculture is relevant to a question asked earlier by  Senator Laucke.  Has the Minister seen the publication 'Chile Today', an official publication of the Government of Chile, which carries a report that the United States recently has sold a substantial amount of wheat to Chile on very favourable terms? Has the Minister been able to ascertain whether the report in this Chilian Government publication is correct? Could the alleged sale on the terms mentioned be more accurately described as a gift? Would the Australian Wheat Board be prepared to meet that sort of price in trading competition? 

 - Senator Wright did not respond to the challenge which  Senator James  McClelland issued, and I should like to take up the question of the superphosphate bounty that  Senator Wright  has mentioned. Very briefly, for  Senator Wright's  further study in depth of this subject, I should like to point out to him that 60 per cent of the superphosphate used in Australia is used on pastures, most of which produce beef which is virtually unsalable at the moment, or wool which is being purchased this year mainly by the Australian Government through the Australian Wool Corporation and has been a major cause of the deficit about which  Senator Wright  has expressed concern in the past. With respect to his. comment that because the price of phosphate rock was rising the Government should step in and subsidise away this price increase, I commend to  Senator Wright  a study of chapter 5, paragraph 46 of the Green Paper 'Rural Policy in Australia' in order that he may attain a better understanding of the market free enterprise economy which I presume, as a Liberal Party senator, he espouses. 
We have just heard again  Senator Scott's  tiresome thin end of the wedge argument which he has used for every electoral Bill that has been before the Parliament since I have been a member.  Senator Scott  persistently says that a Bill which provides for certain changes to be made will, if passed, inevitably lead to other changes being introduced for which the Bill does not provide. I have yet to hear the reason behind that assertion that  Senator Scott  is so fond of making. Of course, the thin end of the wedge argument is one that has long been popular with the conservative political parties in Australia and is persistently used as a substitute for a valid argument when they are opposing changes in legislation which is proposed by antiConservative political parties. 
I am sufficiently objective about the question of voting systems to recognise that there are valid arguments against the first past the post voting system as there are valid arguments against the preferential system, and for precisely the same reasons. It is true that in a first past the post system it is possible for a candidate to be elected who is not wanted by more than half of the electors. It is also possible under a preferential system for this to happen. I will demonstrate how. Let us assume that candidate A receives 45 per cent of the votes, candidate B receives 30 per cent and candidate C receives 25 per cent. Under the standard preferential system the preferences of candidate C will be distributed. If more than 90 per cent flow to candidate B he is elected. However, the 45 per cent of the people who voted for candidate A may prefer candidate C to candidate B. In fact it is feasible that candidate B is not wanted by 75 per cent of the electorate. Although that is a hypothetical example it has happened in practice. It happened at an election which I personally contested in 1969. It was ultimately won by the Country Party which gained just over 30 per cent of the votes. 
-Of the primary vote. The Liberal Party polled just under 30 per cent of the vote and the Labor Party polled just over 42 per cent of the vote. The preference of the Labor Party was for the Liberal candidate. If asked to choose between the Liberal and the Country Party candidate the preference of the Labor Party was for the Liberal candidate. Notwithstanding the fact the the Country Party candidate was not wanted by the 29 per cent of the people who voted Liberal, or by the overwhelming majority of the 42 per cent of the people who voted Labor, the Country Party candidate won. 
I am not arguing,  Senator Withers,  that the Labor Party should have won the election. I suggest the honourable senator open his mind on this question and listen to the point I am making, which is that the second preferences of the people who voted for the third candidate are counted but the second preferences of the people who voted for the candidate who tops the primary count are not counted. That is an injustice. 
-I will not get sidetracked with that. I recognise the first past the post system has anomalies within it, as does the preferential system. I have yet to hear a valid argument against the optional preferential system, and I certainly have not heard one tonight. 
The honourable senator will hear one in a minute. It is arguable, of course, as to precisely what causes variations in the proportion of informal vote, although one fairly clear conclusion which can be drawn from the figures which  Senator Withers  has presented is that the informal vote rises with the number of candidates. There is a fairly clear correlation between an increase in the number of candidates and an increase in the informal vote. I did not note all of the figures which  Senator Withers  cited for the Senate, but I think there was a 10 per cent informal vote in half of the States. The informal vote for the House of Representatives varied between 1.9 per cent and 3.1 per cent. At least it is fairly clear that there is a correlation between the number of candidates and the number of informal votes. Of course it is fairly obvious that if people have to vote for an increased number of candidates there will be an increase in the informal vote. Despite  Senator Baume  's argument, he still cited figures which proved that the informal vote was highest in New South Wales in 1974 when people had to vote for 73 candidates. 
There is, of course, another reason. I am surprised it has not occurred to members of the Opposition. Throughout the second reading debate on this issue we heard from members of the Opposition of their intense desire to maximise the options which are available to the electors. They wanted to maximise the electors' freedom of choice, where they would vote, how they would vote and so on. I am surprised it has not occurred to members of the Opposition that one of the reasons for introducing an optional preferential system is that people will still be able to record a valid vote without being compelled to number their preferences all the way down to number 73 and to record quite meaningless votes or be forced to record quite meaningless preferences when they have no real preference at all between candidates No. 46 and No. 52 and candidates No. 38 and No. 73. I am surprised it has not occurred to members of the Opposition that one of the reasons for the introduction of this measure is to maximise the range of options which are available to the electorate. Yet again we find on this issue that the difference between word and deed, the difference between the Opposition's self-proclaimed objectives and its actions, is something like 1 80 degrees. 
During the second reading debate I was interested to hear  Senator Scott  claim that he believed that the electorate or the electors- and I quote- 'have sufficient responsibility and intelligence to understand the questions that are put before them'. He made that comment with reference to the 4 referendum proposals which were put conjointly with the 1974 elections. I leave aside for the moment the question whether the electors are sufficiently responsible and intelligent to understand those 4 questions. If that is so they are far more responsible and intelligent than at least one of the candidates who was endorsed by  Senator Scott's  Party for the 1 974 election. I refer to what was the Country 
Party and which called itself the National Alliance at this particular time and which now calls itself the National Country Party of Australia. I think that is the current alias by which it is known. This Country Party-cum-National Alliance-cum-National Country Party candidate at a public meeting which I attended- we spoke from the same platform- expressed in very trenchant terms his complete opposition to the 4 referendum questions which were being presented by the Government. It was very trenchant opposition indeed. He was then asked to name what the questions were. He was unable to name any of them, which I suppose underlines once again the not uncommon observation that members of the Country Party-cum-National PartycumNational Country Party have a very strong propensity to be as long on prejudice as they are short on facts. 
I noted with a great deal of satisfaction that, in his contribution to the debate on the motion for the second reading of this Bill,  Senator Missen  said in effect that the optional preferential system was probably a good idea but his Party was opposed to it and he was bound by the Party's decision. I recognise the difficulties that people face with Party discipline. I commend  Senator Missen  for having acknowledged that the proposed change has a great deal to be said for it. But- let us cut out all the sophistry and all the humbug- the real reason why the Opposition is opposing this change is that it is afraid that the preference swaps between the Liberal Party and Country Party will be less effective under an optional preferential system than under a compulsory preferential system. So honourable senators opposite are going to compel the electors, irrespective of whether the electors want to do so, to record a preference for every candidate on the ballot paper if the electors wish to record a valid vote. They realise that if the preference exchanges were less effective when people were given the freedom of choice as to whether they would exercise a preference down to the last candidate they would then have to come to a mutual arrangement as to whether Liberal Party candidates would contest a particular seat and Country Party candidates would contest another seat and which Party's candidates would contest which particular seats. It is not hard to see the Pandora's Box that would open and the bloodbath that would ensue between the two uneasy partners in the Opposition if they had to come to that sort of an arrangement before an election. I notice that  Senator Withers  is amused. I remind  Senator Withers  of certain events that took place in Victoria prior to the 1974 election when the 
State President of the Liberal Party resigned because he was not prepared to cop the deal which had been made in the centralist city of Canberra. 
-The State President of the Liberal Party threatened to resign because he was not prepared to cop the deal which had been made between the wheeler-dealers of the Liberal Party and the wheeler-dealers of the Country Party in Canberra. This is the real reason why the Opposition is opposing this measure: It wants to limit the freedom of choice that is available to the electorate; it wants to compel electors to continue to have to vote for every candidate; and it is frightened to embrace any change because that would reduce the effectiveness of its vote and lead to an almighty squabble between the two Opposition parties. 
The final point I make concerns people like  Senator Townley,  who is not present in the chamber, who put forward the argument that any political party which seeks to change an electoral system should be viewed with great suspicion and distrust. I remind  Senator Townley  and those who hold a similar view that we once had first-past-the-post voting in Australia and that that system was changed iri, I think, 1919 or 1920. Why was it changed? It was changed for the most sordid of political reasons. It was changed because the Country Party then, as it is doing now, was holding a gun at the head of the Liberal Party and demanding the introduction of preferential voting at the next federal election as a pre-condition to the Country Party not standing candidates against the Liberal Party in an election. That is the reason why the electoral laws were changed at that time. They were changed to gain political advantage for the Liberal and Country Parties. That is why the Opposition is now opposing the introduction of optional preferential voting, which increases the range of options, the range of choice and the freedom of the electors. I commend the clause as proposed. 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture whether, following the recent substantial improvement in the wool market, the Australian Wool Corporation is disposing or has been able to dispose of any of its substantial stockpile? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General and relates to the need for improved telephone communications between Western Australia and the eastern States. I ask: When will the Australian Post Office expand the capacity of the trunk system connecting the eastern States and Perth? 
My question refers to television coverage for the Western Australian mining town, Koolyanobbing. Can the Minister for the Media tell the Senate what plans, if any, there are for providing such a service and whether the plans provide for a private translator I think that is the term used- or for an ABC transmitter? 

 - Mr Kevin Davis, whom the Melbourne Age' of 29 April last described as a research officer for a privately funded human rights group named the Human Life Research Foundation and who, during the week, has received some publicity as the secretary of an organisation which calls itself the Committee of Concern for Refugees from Indo-China, has issued a number of statements which were highly critical of the Australian Government. They allege that the Government has transported fewer refugees from South Vietnam than it was obliged to have done. So far as I am aware, and after considerable inquiry, neither  Mr Davis  nor, for that matter, his colleagues in the Committee of Concern for Refugees from Indo-China, the Reverend Nile or  Mr Hines  of the New South Wales Branch of the Returned Services League, showed no such humanitarian concern for refugees from the civil war in Bangladesh in 1 97 1 or from the civil war in Nigeria at about the same time. I believe that the reason for those omissions will become plain in a moment. 
I believe it should be known by the Senate and by the public that  Mr Kevin  Davis is the same Kevin Davis who was  President  of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, Press Secretary to 2 former parliamentary leaders of the DLP and is, I understand, still an executive member of the New South Wales Branch of the DLP.  Mr Davis,  for rather obvious reasons, has been very reticent about disclosing his current and previous political positions, but the public is entitled to know that his assessments and assertions are not those of a simple humanitarian. It is ironic that a very active member of the DLP, an organisation which demanded conscription of Australian youth, which was the most hysterical advocate of fire and slaughter in Indo-China, which sponsored television advertisements which purported to show that  Chairman  Mao was responsible for the atrocities of Belsen, and which blythely ignored the tiger cages of Con Son' and the atrocities perpetrated by the former rulers of Saigon, should have the effrontery to pose as a person genuinely concerned about protecting life and.individual liberty. 
He is one of those persons that wants to make atomic bombs in Australia, as  Senator Poyser  reminds me.  Mr Davis's  allegations should be clearly recognised for what they are- highly partisan political utterances designed to denigrate the Australian Government without regard to the facts and the true situation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 11.4 p.m. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Can the Minister give the Senate an indication, based upon interviews conducted by his Department, of the number of claims for compensation in Darwin that will be made? Further, is it possible, as a result of the information gained from claimants, to determine whether the guidelines for compensation have been reasonably followed? When will the payments be made? 
Notwithstanding the comments of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and the references that he made to  Senator Button  and 1 or 2 other colleagues of mine, I do not believe that anyone on this side of the chamber believes that racial discrimination can be entirely legislated out of existence. I think this Bill also recognises that fact. The emphasis of the Bill is primarily on conciliation. Should that fail the Bill contains punitive provisions. I think that in his second reading speech the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  touched upon an extremely important point when he stated: 
The fact that racial discrimination is unlawful will make it easier for people to resist social pressures that result in discrimination. 
Having been born and reared in a country town which like most country towns in Australia manifested quite a deal of anti-Aboriginal discrimination, I have seen examples of the relevance of the point that  Senator James  McClelland was making. For example, I have in mind the barber who refused to cut an Aboriginal's hair. Whether the barber himself is racist or not is irrelevant. The barber states in a town where racial discrimination does exist that if he cuts the Aboriginal's hair his European customers will not patronise his shop; they will go somewhere else. No doubt in this particular town this was a justifiable fear. If on the other hand the barber is in a position to say 'the law forbids me from discriminating against Aboriginals' he is then in a very much stronger position to resist those very social pressures for racial discrimination to which  Senator James  McClelland referred. 
The near hysterical exaggerations that  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Sheil  manifested in references to star chambers by  Senator Greenwood  and by  Senator Sheil  the allegations that the Bill provides the Commissioner with 'power similar to that used in the Spanish Inquisition' should not be permitted to distract attention from the provisions which the Bill does actually contain. The Bill prohibits racial discrimination and incitment to racial hatred. It provides the Commissioner with power to subpoena witnesses for purposes of conciliation and inquiry and it provides the Commissioner also with powers to levy penalties against people who refuse to answer subpoenas. It provides for the referral of matters to a prescribed authority and a prescribed authority is defined in the legislation as a judge of the superior court, of a State court of or an industrial court. The Bill makes provision for legal aid for defendants. 
The belief that this legislation will induce a flood of frivolous or vindictive complaints is, I believe, answered effectively in clause 21 (2) of the Bill in which the Commissioner is empowered to dismiss complaints which are in his opinion trivial, complaints which refer to offences which allegedly occurred more than 12 months ago or complaints which are frivolous or vexatious. I have been perplexed by the attitude of the Opposition to this Bill.  Senator Greenwood  appeared to be ambivalent.  Senator Sheil  offered the opinion that countries which have laws pertaining to race generally have more racial problems than countries which do not have laws pertaining to race, a view which he subsequently contradicted. I will return to that in a moment. Then from  Senator Wood  we finally obtained in the most unequivocal terms this statement: 
To my mind this is a very dangerous piece of legislation. I believe we would be far better  off without  it. 
That was the statement that  Senator Wood  made in the Senate last Thursday evening which he repeated tonight in, if anything, stronger terms.  Senator Greenwood  criticised the Bill on the ground that by forbidding the incitement to racial hatred or the dissemination of racist propaganda it infringed the right of free speech, of absolute freedom of publication and of speech. It is a point which must be conceded. However,  Senator Greenwood  did not bother to mention that the laws of defamation already provide substantial constraints against an absolute freedom of expression and of publication, nor did he explain why if the Bill is objectionable on those grounds the Government of which he was a member in 1966 voted for the United Nations Convention on Racial Discrimination which is appended to this Bill and which provides for exactly the same prohibitions against incitement to racial hatred and the publication or dissemination of racist propaganda. 

 Senator Greenwood forecast the Opposition's intention to move a number of amendments to the Bill. At this stage at least I am not aware of the precise nature of those amendments, but from the general tone of  Senator Greenwood  's remarks it appeared, I fear, that  Senator Greenwood  's attitude could be summed up thus:  Senator Greenwood  will support the Bill so long as it consists of nothing more than a series of pious platitudes and so long as all the teeth are drawn from it. 
I may be mistaken,  Senator Missen.  I hope very much that I am, but I think that is not an unreasonable interpretation to place upon  Senator Greenwood's  speech or the tone in which it was delivered. Then  Senator Sheil,  to whom I have already referred, last Thursday evening stated: 
The problems- 
That is the racial problemsseem  to me to be worse in those countries which have legislated in an attempt to solve the problems than in those countries which have not. 
Surely that can be interpreted only as an expression of total opposition to the Bill.  Senator Sheil,  however, proceeded to contradict himself by delivering a eulogy on South Africa and Rhodesia and by aligning himself quite clearly with the very stringent and very racist laws which exist in those countries. It is no great surprise, of course, because  Senator Sheil  on previous occasions has put forward in this Senate similar views. By way of an aside it would perhaps be interesting to know how that great overseas campaigner against alleged racial prejudices in AustraliaMr Charles Perkins- would react to that statement by  Senator Sheil  given the recent flirtation between  Mr Charles  Perkins and the National Country Party of Australia of which  Senator Sheil  is a member, and also of course the rumours as yet undenied that  Mr Charles  Perkins will be seeking endorsement by the National Country Party for a Senate seat representing the Northern Territory. (Quorum formed). So much for  Senator Sheil. 
Then, last Thursday night, we were treated to some delightful entertainment from that unmarked and undiluted survivor of the 19th century plantation society from which he was spawned,  Senator Wood.  He treated us to a delightful or entertaining homily on racism last Thursday evening and he repeated most of it again tonight. I think that the first time I heard  Senator Wood  speak in this chamber he read about 2 pages from Hansard, quoting himself from the year before. Tonight he dispensed with Hansard and the acknowledgement and repeated what he had said, more or less verbatum the previous Thursday. 
The highlight of that address was this unequivocal statement which I mentioned before and which bears repeating: 
To my mind this is a very dangerous piece of legislation. I believe we would be far better off without it. 
The rest of his speech supported that sentiment, to the acute embarrassment of  Senator Missen  and, I have no doubt, a number of the other more enlightened members of the Liberal Party in Opposition.  Senator Wood  then proceeded to recite an anecdote about a Kanaka or a South Sea islands lady he met recently and with whom he conversed in Mackay. That lady, as he put it, spoke the most beautiful English.  Senator Wood  said that with the sort of awe or reverence that one normally would reserve for an observation that an chimpanzee had faultless table manners. 
He then proceeded to tell us that in terms of racial persecution and racial discrimination we in Australia were just amateurs and that we had a lot to learn from the natives. In response to an interjection from  Senator James  McClelland it appeared that in  Senator Wood's  lexicon a native is synonymous with a black or, as he put it, a coloured native. A native means a black in  Senator Wood's  lexicon. The natives or the blacks fight each other,  Senator Wood  informed us; not having been down from the trees for very long they behave in barbarous and uncivilised ways; they carve each other up and expel each other from each other's country and so on. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  I do not regard that as a point of order. I think the matter has been somewhat misconstrued. 
As far as I recall it,  Senator Wood  did not use the term 'just down from the trees'. However, the inference was quite clear. The state of mind and the views of  Senator Wood  on this question are virtually indistinguishable from those of people who use that sort of term. There may be less malice in  Senator Wood  but nevertheless the attitude he holds towards people of non-European racial extraction is, I suggest, quite clearly comparable with that of people who use more offensive terms like just down from the trees'. That point can be emphasised somewhat by the fact that at no stage did  Senator Wood  bother to refer to the tribal fighting in the United Kingdom. Tribal fighting, you see, is something in which only natives indulge and natives, in  Senator Wood  's lexicon, are non-Europeans- those who are black or yellow. It is not conceivable to him that Europeans in the United Kingdom could indulge in tribal fighting as they do in Ulster, and as they have done in Ulster for many years. 
Tonight  Senator Wood  put forward what to me appeared to be a most curious hypothesis. He seemed to say that the Jewish people have been enobled by centuries of racial persecution. Whether intentionally or otherwise he appeared to advocate that racial persecution- group persecution, racial or otherwise- was something which would assist with the evolution of a superior species of humanity. I do not suggest for one moment that the views of  Senator Wood  represent the views of all members of his Party. In fact I would be very surprised if they represent the views of a majority of the members of his Party. I know very well that some of them, a couple of whom were in the chamber until recently, hold views that would be diametrically opposed to those of  Senator Wood. 
We must recognise the problems of the small 1' Liberals who take a tolerant and progressive view on the question of racism and other social matters. We must recognise the problems that they have with the Bourbons and dinosaurs within their own Party. 1 trust that when the amendments forecast by the Opposition finally are presented to the Senate, the views of the progressives within the Liberal Party-  Senator Chaney, Senator Missen  and people like themwill have triumphed over the prejudices, conscious or otherwise, of  Senator Shiel, Senator Wood  and people of that type. 
-Has the Minister for Agriculture seen the report in today's 'Australian Financial Review' of the somewhat nebulous proposal from the Western Australian Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, which implies that the Premier is contemplating paying a subsidy of 50c per kilo on 2 1 micron clean wool to Western Australian growers? Does the Minister know the approximate cost of such a scheme? Has the Western Australian Premier consulted the Australian Government or detailed any firm plans for funding his idea? Is it likely that he will demand finally that the Australian Government foot the bill or can the whole plan of  Sir Charles  be regarded as a piece of cheap political grandstanding designed to reconstruct the LiberalNational Country Party coalition which he blew apart earlier this month? 

 - Senator Wood has just regurgitated the old fable about these dedicated politicians. They are usually National Country Party politicians. He did not identify them as Country Party politicians but according to the fable they are usually dedicated Country Party politicians who spend all their non-parliamentary life tramping around their vast electorates serving the needs of their electors. Having been born and lived until 12 months ago in a rural area where, except for a brief interregnum when the Federal seat was held by the Liberal Party, at both State and Federal levels we were nominally represented by Country Party politicians, I know that the fable does not withstand the test against reality. 
In fact what used to happen was that, instead of these Country Party politicians tramping around their vast electorates, within a year of being elected they moved to the city to live, outside their electorates and they were never seen except when they were canvassing for an election or when the local show was on. So much for servicing their electors. I know that in Queensland some of the members at least nominally reside outside their electorates, as indeed nominally the ex-member for Moore used to do. He always maintained a Dowerin address, having the privilege to do so under the Electoral Act. In fact he lived in South Perth at Cottesloe. But I know that some Country Party members or country members in Queensland do at least nominally maintain a country home too. I have been to Queensland and to Longreach and I have heard from the people who live in these areas about the member for Kennedy, who maintains an office in Mt Isa and rings up from Brisbane asking his secretary in Mt Isa to send telegrams from the member for Kennedy with a Mount Isa address on them, though he has not set foot in Mount Isa for months. 
Yes, the same member for Kennedy who threatened  Senator Keeffe,  from the visitor's gallery in the Senate about 3 months ago, with physical violence. It is the same member for Kennedy. 
The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  does not try to rationalise a gerrymander on the basis of fiction. From the very outset the Liberal Party's attitude to this debate has been based upon fallacy, misrepresentation and Ulogie. From the very beginning, even before the debate commenced, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the House of Representatives, tried to obstruct proceedings on a procedural matter by arguing that the debate should be conducted cognately notwithstanding the fact that when his Party was last in office it introduced and debated the proposition on a State basis as it is being done now. He added: 
The Liberal Party organisations in the States are opposed to these maps. 
I understand that so far as Queensland is concerned that statement is factually inaccurate, and that in fact the Liberal Party organisation in Queensland wanted these propositions. We also heard a lot of cant about how there ought to be a redistribution after a census and how a redistribution should be delayed until after a census. It is interesting to hear that from the Liberal Party when one once again tests that against its record. A census was taken in 1 96 1 and the redistribution pursuant to that census was not conducted until 1968. Why? Because the bushrangers were standing over the Liberal Party throughout the 1960s as they have throughout the 1970s. 
-The Country Party. The then member for Murray, Black Jack McEwen as he was affectionately known, was standing over the Liberal Party just as the National Country Party, alias the Country Party, alias the National Alliance, stands over the Liberal Party still. 
Let me refer to the arguments raised in the House of Representatives. The leading  speaker  for the Opposition,  Mr Howard,  the honourable member for Bennelong, complained that under the existing boundaries a 3 per cent swing against the Government would give the Opposition 12 extra seats. That,  Mr Howard  suggested- in fact, more than suggested; argued very strongly- was a proper result. In other words  Mr Howard  was saying that on the basis of a one party preferred analysis it would be proper for the Labor Party, polling 48.7 per cent of the votes, to win 44.5 per cent of the seats and the Liberal Party, polling 51.3 per cent of the votes, to win 55.5 per cent of the seats. A lot of people would agree with  Mr Howard  that under a single constituency electoral system that would be a proper result, but what interests me is that it totally destroys the arguments which have been used by  Senator Withers  in this House every time electoral Bills have been debated.  Senator Withers  has argued that it is quite appropriate now for the Labor Party, on a one party preferred system, with just under 52 per cent of the votes to obtain just over 52 per cent of the votes. That,  Senator Withers  has always maintained, is the proper result, it is the way it should be and any attempt to change it represents a blatant gerrymander. That argument was totally destroyed by his own colleague in the House of Representatives. As  Mr Howard  said, it is absolute humbug to tie yourself entirely to an overall examination of percentages. 
Moreover, the honourable member for Gwydir,  Mr Hunt,  disagreed with the honourable member for Bennelong, not on a value judgment about what does or does not constitute a proper and fair result for a particular number of votes polled, but on the facts of what would happen as a result of a 3 per cent swing. According to the honourable member for Gwydir, if Labor obtained 45 per cent of the primary vote- that is a figure somewhat less than the 48.7 per cent vote to which  Mr Howard  referred- under these new boundaries it would hold 66 seats. According to the honourable member for Bennelong,  Mr Howard,  Labor, with a slightly higher vote, would hold 59 seats. 1 do not know how the members of the Opposition reconcile that contradiction in the arguments put by their 2 parties; that is, one claims that a party polls 45 per cent of the votes and wins 66 seats and another says the same party polls more than that and wins 59 seats. I will have to leave the Opposition parties to resolve between themselves that disputation about the facts, that is if they have finished resolving their other disputes in Western Australia and elsewhere; if they do manage ever to resolve them. 
However the prize- the egg beater- for an irrational argument must surely be presented to the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  who said, when referring to Tasmania: 
Not only will the seats which were marginal at the last election be safe- - 
That is safe for Labor-  but also safe scats will be gilt-edged. 
The honourable member for Bendigo is saying that in the State where Labor holds all the seats it will simultaneously be able to increase its vote in all of the seats as a result of drawing new boundaries. If there are to be any succeeding speakers from the Opposition, I hope they can also unravel that riddle for the enlightenment of the 
Senate. What emerges from all these contradictions, the cant, the humbug and the nonsense- I do not think it is really that the members of the Opposition who used those arguments are innately stupid or incapable of reasoning- is that members of the Opposition have not got a valid case against this redistribution and as a result they drift into nonsense, into self-contradiction and into contradiction within their parties and between their parties because they are trying to dredge up some sort of spurious substitute for an argument where no valid argument exists; and they know this very well. As one of their better known supporters,  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras, remarked when the distribution proposals came out- this has been quoted before but it bears repeating: 
In overall political terms the 197S redistribution is the fairest set of proposed boundaries ever to be presented to any Australian Parliament in my lifetime. The Commissioners have bent over backwards to avoid any suggestion of gerrymander. My impression is that they have set out to draw boundaries so patently fair that rejection by the Senate would reflect discredit on the Senate, not on the Commissioners. 
Members of the Opposition are about to repeat the discrediting of themselves. As  Senator Hall  remarked rhetorically the other day in the chamber, but not on the record: On what day did the Liberal Party die? I do not suppose one can pinpoint the day, but it is apparent that the Liberal Party has been dying ever since the Country Party has been parasitising it. We do at least know that classical liberalism or the embodiment of the spirit of John Stuart Mill was probably purged from the Liberal Party in the second decade of this century. It has been regularly purged ever since. 
-When the Liberal Party broke the link with John Gorton is the day,  Senator Mulvihill  suggests, the Liberal Party, as a liberal party, died. The date is arguable; the conclusion is not arguable. Liberalism in the Liberal Party is dead, so dead that its carcass pollutes this chamber. Whenever the subject of electoral reform comes up or there is an attempt at democratising the electoral laws, anyone in the Liberal Party who tries to resurrect true liberalism is gunned down by the Country Party's bushrangers. It is not surprising that on this subject there is a great deal of antipathy between Opposition members and  Senator Hall,  because  Senator Hall  hits continually on a raw nerve and cuts very close to the bone. He embarrasses the Opposition considerably.  Senator Withers  said the other day, in response to a very cutting interjection from  Senator Hall:  'Perhaps the best thing that could be said about  Senator Hall  is that he was such a political genius in his State that he had a redistribution which was unfavourable to himself, and then had an election.' That is the cardinal sin apparently in this perverted form of liberalism that survives in Australia in 1975. 

 Senator Withers was really saying that  Senator Hall  was a mug because he allowed the electoral laws of South Australia to be amended in such a way that the Labor Party was able to form a government with 53 per cent of the vote, whereas formerly it had not been permitted to form a government with 54 per cent of the vote.  Senator Withers  was saying that  Senator Hall  was a mug because he allowed that to happen. We are indeed indebted to  Senator Withers  for that insight into his political morality.  Senator Withers,  who in this chamber throws, like confetti at a wedding, , accusations about gerrymandering, is a self-confessed and unabashed gerrymanderer. He has imbibed deeply of the Orwellian concept of Newspeak; that is, call gerrymander a democracy and call democracy a gerrymander, distract attention from your own villainies by planting them on your opponents. 
In conclusion, let us look at the numbers. The Country Party, in the 3 States in which it holds seats, holds a total of 20 seats. The fable would have us believe that the Country Party represents the sparsely populated outback areas of Australia. In fact, there are 7 electorates with an area greater than 100 000 square miles, four of which are held by the Australian Labor Party, two by the Country Party and one by the Liberal Party. There are no fewer than 15 Country Party seats with an area of less than 15 000 square miles, whereas the average area of electorates in all States is 20 000 square miles. There are 7 Country Party seats with an area of less than 9000 square miles. Of those seats which are a mean distance of more than 400 miles from the State capital- there are in total nine- five are held by the Australian Labor Party, two by the Country Party and two by the Liberal Party. 
So the Country Party, although it represents non-metropolitan areas, does not and never has represented the really remote sparcely populated areas of Australia. However, when we look at the number of electors in each electorate on the basis of party categorisation, we find that the Country Party seats in every State have average enrolments more than 10 per cent below the average for that State. Despite all the cant, what the present electoral laws are designed to do is to overrepresent the Country Party under the camouflage of providing greater than proportional representation for remote areas. As to particular seats, the electorate of Kalgoorlie has been mentioned. Incidentally, for the benefit of Queensland members I point out that there is no direct air service from the city of Kalgoorlie to the other population centres in the Kalgoorlie electorate, some of which are about as far away from Kalgoorlie as the south-western tip of Queensland is from Cape York, if not farther. On 28 June last the electorate of Kalgoorlie had 52 92 1 electors on the roll. 
Pertinent to the difficulties of representing Kalgoorlie is the fact that it has the lowest proportion of enrolled electors to total population in Australia for 2 reasons, namely many of the Aborigines are not enrolled and many of the people who work in the Kalgoorlie electorate are transitory workers who are enrolled elsewhere. Its population is very much higher than its enrolment would suggest. Let us look at the figure of nearly 53 000 for the Kalgoorlie electorate, which in area is 40 per cent greater than the entire State of Queensland. In Queensland, under the old boundaries on the same date, Kennedy had 51 500 electors and Maranoa had a similar number- fewer electors in these 2 electorates in Queensland than were enrolled in Kalgoorlie, which is 40 per cent larger than the entire State of Queensland. 
In Victoria, the seats of Mallee and Wimmera combined have an area equal to 4 per cent of the Kalgoorlie seat, and the enrolments were just over 50 000 and 49 500 respectively. In New South Wales, the seats of Hume and Riverina, which together have an area 7 per cent of that of the Kalgoorlie electorate, had enrolments of 50 500 and 52 173 respectively. All those seats, apart from the fact that they are very much smaller than the Kalgoorlie electorate- down to one-fiftieth of its size- have fewer electors than Kalgoorlie and share another common feature: They are all held by the Country Party. That is the reason why this redistribution, which Malcolm Mackerras described as the fairest that had ever been presented to an Australian Parliament in his lifetime, is being rejected. It is not because it is unfair, but because it is fair. 
It is being rejected by the Country Party gerrymandered who have gerrymandered the electorate and who have blackmailed the Liberal Party for as long as it has existed, aided and abetted by such self-confessed and unabashed gerrymandered as  Senator Withers,  who has just returned to the chamber. 
Has the Minister for Agriculture seen the latest issue of Ronald Anderson's prestigious 'Primary Industry Newsletter' and in particular the comments on  Mrs Hilda  Rolfe 's withdrawal from the Industries Assistance Commission hearing on superphosphate? Do the circumstances of this case justify the 'Primary Industry Newsletter' charge that as a result of the National Country Party Leader's hysterical over-reaction and cheap political grandstanding in response to  Mrs Rolfe  's 'reasonable, objective and innocent remarks' the IAC superphosphate reference has lost a razor-sharp and farmer-sympathetic commissioner'? 
Last month  Senator James  McClelland quoted in the chamber Marx's dictum that history repeats itself for the first time as tragedy and the second time as farce. An observer of the continuing upheavals in the coalition Government of Western Australia would no doubt conclude that the first leg of Marx's prophesy was correct. History is indeed repeating itself and in particular the history of the Country Party from 1 9 1 7. In 1916 the Country Party Western Australian 
State conference carried the following resolution: 
That conference confirms the unanimous resolution of (general) conference that no alliance could be thought of with any party, and, therefore, no member of our Parliamentary party could accept a portfolio in any government except that of the Country Party. 
The following year, 1 9 1 7, the then ruling Liberal Government of Western Australia lost its absolute parliamentary majority. A government was formed under Lefroy, and 3 members of the Parliamentary Country Party were offered and accepted ministerial positions in that Lefroy Government, two of them being Ministers without portfolio. Of course this was done clearly in blatant contempt for and defiance of the unanimous resolution of their conference carried in the previous year. In the ensuing confrontation between the Parliamentary Country Party and its organisational wing which came about 2 months later, the organisational wing caved in to the opportunistic parliamentary wing of the then Country Party. Last week the farce was repeated when 3 members of the Parliamentary Country Party signified their intention to sneak back into the State Government coalition in defiance of a 5-day-old so-called final resolution of the Party's joint governing council. Of course there has always been and still is a fundamental conflict of interest between the Country Party's political welfare and the economic welfare of the farmers it claims primarily to represent, the Country Party's political welfare being of course largely dependent upon maintaining the greatest possible number of farmers assisted at the margin quite substantially by electoral gerrymandering, while maximising the economic welfare of farmers by having the lowest number of farmers. This is a simple enough economic axiom. When superimposed on that innate contradiction the parliamentry group puts the personal prestige and power lust ahead of all commitment to policy or ideals, the original conflict of interest is exacerbated. 
Nineteen days ago the Country Party withdrew from the Western Australian coalition Government pursuant to a series of disagreements over policy and objection to the autocratic rule of the Premier,  Sir Charles  Court. Whatever the merits of the policy differences may have been, the then Country Party leaders,  Mr McPharlin,  and  Mr Stephens  at least made a decision on a point of principle and they stuck to it. The decision was pretty quickly followed up by an orgy of reciprocal vilification. For example, on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's radio program 'A.M.' on 20 May the Premier, in describing the Country Party, said: 
. they're just being so dishonest and so unfair that it's unbelievable. 
-The Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court, in describing the Country Party in Western Australia. The Federal Leader of the Country Party was quoted in the West Australian' of 20 May last as saying: 
It is quite obvious that  Sir Charles  made life impossible for  Mr Ray  McPharlin . . . 
The Premier of Queensland, following some other events that I will comment on briefly in a minute, described  Sir Charles  as being inflexible, unbendable and a bad politician. But the most caustic indictment of all in this campaign of reciprocal vilification came from the State  President  of the Country Party,  Mr David  Reid- exsenator David Reid.  Mr Reid  initially accused  Sir Charles  of deliberately setting out to split the coalition Government and destroy the Country Party. He added: 
I know just how totally bloody-minded he- 
I interpolate to say that the 'he' referred to is the Premier,  Sir Charles  Court-  can be- so much so that he will cut the nose off the State and endanger its vital industries to win a personal point. 

 Mr David Reid went on to say: 
The present attitude- 
That is,  Sir Charles  Court's attitude-  completely precluded our supporters having their voices heard at all in a coalition government. 
So the campaign of vilification proceeded for nearly a week in Perth with reciprocal vilification. In the meantime, at the instigation of the Canberra meddlers, the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony),  who were terrified, of course, lest the bitter division between their coalition subsidiaries in Western Australia should spill over and break or set asunder the cosmetic alliance that was holding the federal coalition together, prevailed upon Queensland's Kissinger to fly in and set things straight in Perth. The Premier of Queensland promptly hatcheted the existing Country Party leaders- Messrs McPharlin and Stephens- and installed in their stead Messrs Old and Jones. 

 - Mr Old is a very new member.  Sir Charles  remarked upon that later,  Senator Poyser.  Both of those gentlemen reputedlyone of them certainly- had a long standing and only very recently severed association with the Liberal Party. The reconciliation achieved by humiliating the former leadersMessrs McPharlin and Stephens- was, however, short lived.  Sir Charles  Court would not allow the Country Party to hold the  Deputy  Premiership in a re-established coalition. On that vital point of policy and principle the Country Party declined to rejoin the coalition. Following thatover the weekend period between 22 and 24 May- the Country Party joint council was locked in an intra-party wrangle reminiscent of the vicious inter-party wrangle of December 1971 in Canberra concerning the Australian dollar exchange rate. But ultimately the so-called final decision emerged- the Country Party was out, and it would stay out. Then the Canberra heavies moved in. The Federal  President  of the Country Party,  Mr Solomon,  and the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  moved in. The custodians of political decentralisation, of State autonomy and of grass roots democracy, sent their Canberra heavies to Perth to straighten out the Western Australian deviants. Following the flying peanut's westward corridor they then proceeded to whip the Western Australians into shape. 
According to  Mr Old,  the Canberra heavies provided vital new information which persuaded members of the Country Party's Joint Council that due to circumstances and facts of which they were not previously aware, they should reestablish the coalition Government. But according to  Mr Stephens,  the former  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, they provided no new information. As a result of those contradictory versions, I suppose one is entitled presumably to believe whatever version one pleases about the substance of the Nixon-Solomon revelations. But the most credible versions, of course, is that these emissaries of the Canberra custodians of State autonomy, grass roots democracy and political decentralisation- that is the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  and the right honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony)  in the House of Representatives- portrayed to the Western Australians a terrifying picture of a Liberal-Country Party national explosion and therefore ordered their immature western followers to cease playing with detonators. However, whatever fantasy or forecast of impending Armageddon was thrust upon the Western Australian Country Party, it did succeed. The Parliamentary Party announced its unconditional surrender to the Premier and its impending return to the coalition on 30 May in flat contradiction of its Joint Council decision and in defiance of the Party's constitution. So the history of 1917 had repeated itself replete with farce. 
The farce, however, was not yet quite complete. The former Country Party member for Moore in the House of Representatives unsuccessfully sought an injunction to restrain the Parliamentary Country Party from rejoining the Government, and in the process poured scorn on the Parliamentary Party, the State  President Mr David  Reid,  Sir Charles  Court, the Liberal Party and the meddlers from the east.  Mr Maisey  's indignation may well have had less to do with his reverence for the Country Party's doctrinal purity than with his own personal ambition to make a comeback in the Senate, and the consequent need to demolish such obstacles to his comeback in the Senate as  Mr David  Reid, the State  President  of the Country Party, who has been endorsed in the No. 1 position for the Country Party Senate team for Western Australia. However, whatever his motives may have been, he was supported in the court in his actions by  Mr Stephens,  the former  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party. 
So the next final decision will be made at another Country Party Joint Council meeting next Monday. Whatever the outcome, the Country Party of Western Australia clearly faces either a major Party split, the loss of any remaining shred of credibility, or both. 
It is not a political party now under the laws of Western Australia because it does not have enough members, for reasons which I am about to develop. The trouble goes back almost 2 years when  Mr Anthony,  the Country Party Leader in the other place, desperately seeking to preserve his own political prestige and from the ravages of a shrinking electoral base, persuaded the Western Australian Branch of the Party to enter into an alliance with these politically stone-age men, the denizens of the Democratic Labor Party. Within a year, as a result of accepting that brilliant strategic manoeuvre conceived by the false prophet from Canberra, the Country Party of Western Australia lost half of the State and Federal seats it had previously held. As a result of further meddling by the emissaries and hatchet men of  Mr Anthony  from Canberra, which is on the other side of the continent, and from Queensland, which is in another world, the Country Party of Western Australia is on the brink of selfannihilation. Along with  Sir Charles  Court and many others, I will not regret its passing. I do, however, regret that those of its members who were sincerely committed to certain beliefs, however misguided they may have been, should have been publicly humiliated by people who were recruited from other parties and imported from other States and who are dedicated to nothing but selfish ambition and the fulfilment of what they see as their divine right to rule. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It is prompted by the Opposition's sudden and intense interest in the State of Tasmania and the announcement on this morning's news broadcast that the Premier of Queensland is about to visit Tasmania. Does the Leader of the Government know whether  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is being dispatched to Tasmania in his role as political hit man for Messrs Anthony and Fraser to liquidate the Liberal candidate for Bass, who does not reside in the electorate of Bass, or whether he is going down to explain to the people of Tasmania why he demanded on 2 occasions, both before and after Christmas, that Japan purchase Queensland beef instead of Tasmanian beef? Finally, will the Leader of the Government give an assurance that under no circumstances will the Australian Labor Government tolerate that sort of discrimination against Tasmanian exports, which has been demanded on 2 occasions by the Premier of Queensland, tacitly supported by the Leader of the Oppposition,  Mr 
Fraser, and the Leader of the National Country Party,  Mr Anthony? 
-As has happened on, I think, every occasion since I came into the Senate on which the Opposition has launched an urgency motion, frequently in a very aggressive and confident manner, today the course of the debate has turned right around and the Opposition is trying desperately to defend its effrontery in launching the motion in the first place. That happened in relation to the Ermolenko affair, the South Vietnamese orphans and the South Vietnamese refugees, and the pattern seems to be repeating itself today. Just as an aside, I was interested to hear  Senator Drake-Brockman  complain about the pre- 1972 Opposition having the audacity to take the business of the Senate out of the hands of the then Government. The irony of that is that such action could not have been taken before the 1 972 election without the support of Democratic Labor Party, the Party that endorsed  Senator Drake-Brockman  and helped elect him to this Senate at the 1974 elections.  Senator DrakeBrockman  was the Democratic Labor Party candidate, No. 1 on the Democratic Labor Party ticket, for the 1974 Senate election. So I find it ironic, to say the least, that  Senator DrakeBrockman  should see fit to chastise the Party which endorsed him, an endorsement which he accepted and under which he sits today in this Senate. However, that is an aside. 
As to the debate proper, once again we are being subjected to the spectacle of the Opposition wasting the time of the Senate, wasting the time of every member of the Senate in a sordid attempt to gain some political mileage from a non-issue. As has happened previously, the attempt has backfired on the Opposition. The one substantial point which has emerged from this debate today, the one piece of evidence which has been adduced to corroborate the fantastic charges which members of the Opposition have made in this chamber and in the other place, is that at some time in the past the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  wrote a letter to a  Mr Khemlani,  a representative of a firm of London merchants and traders. The letter, of course, was a letter of introduction. It was not a commission or a contract to write loans on behalf of the Australian Government. That, of course, is not news. It was acknowledged in the other place by the Minister for Minerals and Energy himself some weeks ago. The rest of the falsehoods which Opposition members have presented here have been fabricated by either the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  or the people who fed the information to him, including the honourable member's own allegation in the House of Representatives when this matter first arose or his own inference that  Mr Khemlani  was some sort of crook who was under investigation by Scotland Yard. That story, of course, was blown.  Mr Khemlani  had been investigated by Scotland Yard- which is another story- and Scotland Yard had given him a clean reference. 
The other major falsehood or fabrication which had been fed to the Press by the honourable member for Flinders was that the Australian Government had authorised the firm known as Dolmac Consultants as sole agents- I think that was the term which was used- for raising a substantial loan for the Australian Government. That allegation blew up in the face of the honourable member for Flinders, as had his previous fabrications and falsehoods. It was unequivocally denied by the general manager of the firm concerned in a statement last night on the television program 'This Day Tonight'. I will quote what was said and I will table the transcript of what was said if the Opposition would like me to do so. It reads: 
The General Manager,  Mr MacDonald,  confirms that he was indeed an international financier involved in raising money overseas but he told us he had been given no authority by the Australian Government to negotiate or raise loans. 
So that blew up on the honourable member for Flinders. 
The other possible justification for the Opposition moving this motion is that it believes that such matters should be handled only in accordance with established Treasury procedures, that I think being the term which was used. I do not know why the Opposition insists on this rigid adherence to the pattern of orthodoxy especially in a changing world. It could, I suppose, be because of the Opposition's innate conservatism. It could possibly be that some powerful friends of the Opposition were in the habit of obtaining commissions on loans previously raised.  Senator McAuliffe,  who spoke earlier in this debate, has already given some indication of the very substantial commissions which were available on loans which were raised by the previous Government in accordance with these established Treasury procedures. It may possibly be that there were some kickbacks like the alleged kickback from the Dillingham mining company to the Queensland Government. It was alleged that $100,000 was paid into the funds of the National Country Party in Queensland by this company in return for favours from the Queensland Government. I dare say those diligent members of the 
National Country Party who represent Queensland in this Senate will insist with the same tenacity and the same aggression they have displayed today that the Government of Queensland should conduct a royal commission into that allegation to establish whether the Dillingham company did pay $100,000 into the slush funds of the Queensland National Country Party, or perhaps the Opposition was just outraged at the thought of any deviance from the line of orthodoxy. 
Apparently the Opposition thinks it quite intolerable that the Government, any government, should object to a situation wherein the Permanent Head of the Department of the Treasury castigates a subordinate for transmitting a message in such a manner that the Prime Minister could have discovered what the Treasury was up to. Apparently it is incomprehensible to the members of the Opposition that any government should object or should have any reservations whatsoever when one of its major departments behaves in that manner, or when the head of one of its major departments sees fit to castigate one of his subordinates because his security has been so slack that the Prime Minister might discover what the Treasury has been up to. 
Given the weakness of the argument which the Opposition has attempted to present, it is not surprising that it should have drifted into an indefensible position. When the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  was speaking,  Senator Carrick  had the effrontery to raise a point of order because the Minister had referred to certain disclosures concerning the Department of the Treasury, and particularly the head of that Department.  Senator Carrick  raised a point of order on the ground that it was quite improper that the Minister should canvass these matters since they were already the subject of an inquiry ordered by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  It is interesting that  Senator Carrick  should have taken that view. I presume that he approved of the Opposition's raising this matter of urgency today to canvass those very matters which already are the subject of an inquiry ordered by the Prime Minister.  Senator Carrick  in that instance has applied a double standard.  Senator Carrick  is the representative of the antediluvian wing of the Liberal Party- the personification of the antediluvian wing of the Liberal Party. That is the sort of double standard for which the Liberal Party has become infamous. It is the sort of double standard which enabled it to posture and pose as the champion of the liberty of the individual against the tyranny of the State while at the same time it was sending out press gangs to dragoon Australian youths into fighting a war in IndoChina, a war in which Australia had become involved on the basis of a tissue of lies circulated by  Senator Carrick  's party and the Government formed by his party. 
The other major distortion came from the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers),  who seized upon the Executive Council minute and attempted to distort it. In fact he did distort that minute in a fruitless endeavour to prove that it established that the Australian Government had authorised an agent, be it  Mr Khemlani  or someone else, to negotiate loans on its behalf. I am sure that  Senator Withers,  who is a lawyer and to the best of my knowledge a lawyer at least of medium competence, would know very well that that minute authorised the Minister for Minerals and Energy to negotiate loans on behalf of the Australian Government. It did not authorise any other person who may be delegated by the Minister for Minerals and Energy to raise loans on behalf of the Australian Government. 
It seems that the Opposition in a sense has been the victim of a self-promotion exercise by one of its members, that synthetic man, that habitual headline snatcher, the honourable member for Flinders, who has been building up his image, no doubt in anticipation of the next Liberal Party blood bath. I daresay that the honourable member for Flinders could anticipate, perhaps with considerable glee, another meeting at the godfather's flat at Toorak when the jackals of the Liberal Party prepare to pick the bones of the Leader that they appointed in the godfather's flat on the ides of March last. Maybe, about next March, after the Liberal Party fails to win the by-election in Bass, its members will be asking what is wrong with their present Leader and beginning to look for another one. 
The honourable member for Flinders, whose political ambition is well known and is without bounds, will be very anxious to promote his image in such a way that he will be favourably considered. Of course he has some handicaps to overcome. He has probably an innate and, some would even be uncharitable enough to say, a well deserved, inferiority complex. But above all, he has the tremendous handicap of being a Roman Catholic and trying to reach the top in a white Anglo-Saxon Protestant Party. I suggest that the members of the Opposition should seriously examine the proposition that they have been used in this instance by the habitual headline grabbing honourable member for Flinders in pursuance of his own personal political ambitions. 
In the couple of minutes that remain to me I should like to say something about the ethics of stealing. Clearly the one substantial piece of evidence which the Opposition has managed to present in this debate, namely, the Khemlani letter, was stolen by, or stolen on behalf of, a member of the Opposition, presumably for the honourable member for Flinders. It is interesting to note what the Premier of Queensland had to say when some documents fell into the hands of the Leader of the Opposition in Queensland. He said: 
I am not concerned with the Opposition's attempts to use stolen information to try to embarrass the Queensland Government ... the Opposition is deserving of the severest censure for its lack of ethics in this affair. 
-I shall tell the honourable senator what his former leader,  Sir Robert  Menzies, said when the Pentagon papers were first published by the 'New York Times'. Of course the Pentagon papers, as we all recall, established that the Government which was headed by  Sir Robert  Menzies- and which included as backbenchers or Ministers the following people who are still members of the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack,  Senator Drake-Brockman, Senator Marriott, Senator Sim, Senator Webster  and  Senator Wright-  had lied consistently from 1962 onwards regarding the nature of Australia's military involvement in Vietnam and of course the rationale, the excuse for sending troops in large numbers to Vietnam in May 1 965. An editorial in the 'Australian Financial Review ' of 18 June 1971, in referring to  Sir Robert  Menzies ' attitude following these disclosures, stated: 
Loftily, righteously,  legalistically,  Sir Robert  Menzies has refused to comment on the revelations on Vietnam policy published by the 'New York Times' on the grounds that he does ' not read stolen goods '. 
I do not intend to occupy very much time. We have just heard another fairly dismal dirge from  Senator Scott  on the last 2 Bills regarding the economic conditions of agriculture in Australia. While it is certainly true that there has been a significant fall - 
I am going to. I shall make a comparison which may interest  Senator Scott  quite considerably. In fact I shall make it a little sooner than I had intended. It is interesting to see that  Senator Scott  is substantially blaming the Government for what he alleges to be a significant depression in Australian agriculture. As a couple of very well known agricultural economists remarked in a book which they published recently- the economists being Doctors Schapper and Mauldon- many of the beliefs pertaining to agriculture are often flatly contradicted by the facts, and the apparent belief of  Senator Scott  is one of those beliefs. The facts are that the anticipated net farm income, estimated by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, in real terms for the financial year 1974-75 is 20 per cent higher than it was in 1971-72. The significance of those years, of course, is that 1 97 1 -72 was the last full year of Liberal-Country Party Government. If  Senator Scott  wishes to suggest that the Labor Government is totally or substantially responsible for what he sees as a significant depression in agriculture today perhaps he might have some explanation to offer as to why this income was 20 per cent less in real terms in the last year that his Party was in government? 
The purpose of this Bill  Senator Scott  has explained accurately, the major feature of course being to continue a 5 per cent levy on gross wool proceeds to provide a capital fund in association with the maintenance of a fixed seasonal floor price. A couple of weeks ago this reserve price issue provided the setting for a most reprehensible exhibition of synthetic indignity or hypocrisy by the right honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony)  and the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  who are the Leader and  Deputy  Leader respectively of the National Country Party of Australia in the other place. These 2 great poseurs who lead a Party which was in Government for more than 20 years, for much of which time they were senior Ministers in the coalition government and during which time they consistently refused to hold any seasonal floor price, have the audacity to castigate this Government which has the courage to do what they failed to do for 23 years. These honourable members pose and posture about the damage which they allege would be done to the wool industry if this Government failed to maintain a marketing policy which they for more than 2 decades refused to implement. The villainy and infamy was compounded by a most vicious, unfounded and typically inaccurate personal attack on the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  launched by the greatest of all poseurs in the National Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  while on This Day Tonight' on the evening of 26 May. On this program  Mr Sinclair  stated among many other things: 
It's said on the assessment of those who are expert in the field that next year $ 177m will be the cost to the Australian community of the decision reportedly taken by . . . 
The honourable member was cut off by an interjection. Of course the decision to which he referred was clearly the then prevailing belief that the floor price of wool would be reduced to 200c per kilo. 
One could quibble about the accuracy of that $177m assessment which seems to be a fairly precise figure when we are dealing with such a nebulous concept. Far more importantly, if we accept at face value that, as the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party said, it would cost the community $177m if price support were withdrawn from the wool market, I wonder what was the cost to the community of the 20-odd years which  Mr Sinclair's  Party was in government and during which time it provided no price support at all. I would love to have  Mr Sinclair  sitting opposite me so that I could put that question to him. As he is not here I would welcome an answer from some of his colleagues in his Party or in the other coalition Party. It seems to me that if it cost $177m in one year then a fairly reasonable assessment of the total cost to the community of the 20-odd years of inertia of  Mr Sinclair's  Party would be in the vicinity of 4 billion dollars. The Opposition may not accept that estimate. I accept that it is fallible. It seems to me to be a reasonable conclusion from the assumptions and assertions which  Mr Sinclair  has presented. 
The reason why the honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony)  and the honourable member for New England have lately taken to launching most vicious and unfounded attacks on the Minister for Agriculture is that they are beginning to realise that their credibility in the farming community is being eroded. They are terrified that the present Minister for Agriculture is being regarded, even by farmers, as a better Minister for Agriculture than either of those 2 honourable members was. Nearly everyone outside farming has always known that  Senator Wriedt  is a better Minister for Agriculture than either of them. With regard to the wool industry decision of a couple of weeks ago, I came across an article in the 'Chronicle' which is a rural weekly publication in South Australia. From my reading of it and from information supplied to me by South Australian colleagues I understand it is far removed from being a radical left-wing journal. In fact, it is a typically conservative rural weekly paper. It contains a column which is written by a person who I understand is an active farmer. Certainly he is not a member of my Party nor, I believe, does he support it at election times. He writes under the pen name Victoria. In the issue of 6 June Victoria wrote an article describing the scenes on 26 May following the Caucus decision on the reserve price. He stated: 
THE TIME 
Immediately after the memorable Caucus decision to leave the reserve price for wool at 250c a clean kg. 
SCENE 1 
Doug Anthony, leader of the National Country Party posturing on the back of a utility, actually having the hide to announce the Caucus decision as if he himself had caused the overturning of a Cabinet decision. 
With all due respect for his hard work and rousing efforts on behalf of farmers, but not for his bad manners in upstaging Bob Whan, the pressure for change of Cabinet decision quite obviously came from WITHIN - 
The emphasis is added by Victoria- 
The Government party. 
Then Victoria concluded with what should be self evident to anyone who has achieved minimal level of political literacy. Victoria said: 
Otherwise the vote would not have been almost 2-1 in favour . . . 
I do not suppose that anyone needs any great political literacy to realise that there will not be a 2- 1 vote in the Labor Party Caucus or in a caucus or equivalent meeting of any political party unless a very great number of people who represent capital city electorates vote for the decision. 
The chronology of this matter begins, of course, with the Cabinet decision being made on 23 May. Having due regard for the size of this year's deficit, for worries about next year's deficit and for the uncertainty of the wool market- no doubt spurred on by the continuous campaign and the righteous exhortations of members of the Opposition in this chamber and in the other place to reduce Government spending and to cut the size of the Government deficit- the Cabinet made a decision to reduce the floor price. As anyone who has a minimum level of political literacy knows, in the Labor Party all Cabinet decisions must be referred to Caucus. Finally, the decison was due to have been made by Caucus on the following Tuesday. 
The House of Representatives sat on the Monday. We witnessed the disgusting spectacle of these two great poseurs, the honourable member for Richmond and the honourable member for New England, who claim to have been overwhelmingly concerned with the welfare of wool growers and the wool market, attempting to make the Government, and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in particular, commit themselves to an irrevocable statement that the reserve price would not be set at 250c and that the Caucus would not amend the Cabinet's original decision. In the hope of getting a bit of cheap political mileage these poseurs did everything they possibly could to prevent an amendment to .the Cabinet decision with regard to the maintenance of the reserve price at 250c. On 27 May the Caucus meeting was held and the decision was taken to maintain the reserve price. I shall not keep the Senate much longer, but it is worth noting - 
I have no doubt whatsoever that the members of the Opposition would like to get me off the air because the truth will be seeping back to the back blocks and the people will know that, on  Mr Sinclair's  own reckoning, 20-odd years of inertia from the previous Liberal-Country Party Government cost the wool industry, and what  Mr Sinclair  charmingly calls the community, about $4,000m. The people will know this and I have no doubt whatsoever that the members of the Opposition would like me to get off the air and not repeat that statement. Equally I have no doubt that the Opposition does not want to be circulated among the people who are most particularly interested in this matter the information that the honourable member for Richmond and the honourable member for New England did everything they possibly could to stop the reserve price from being held at 250c in the hope of scoring a few cheap political points in the House of Representatives on 26 May. 
Let us go back 4 years. In May 1 97 1 , ironically enough the same month as the decision was made this year, the Wool Corporation, as it was then known- its name was changed later- was operating what was euphemistically described by the then Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  as a potholing operation. It was not holding a fixed seasonal reserve price, of course, because the Country Party used to say that above all we must not interfere with the free flow of wool on to the market. The Corporation was performing this potholing operation, following the market all over the place and doing all the things which the National Country Party now says is quite intolerable for us to contemplate doing. It was following the market all around the place, buying a bit of wool. At that time I think that the Government had outlaid $30m in advances or had guaranteed advances of $30m from private banks, as against the $3 50m which this Government has provided by direct appropriation. 
The then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  was interviewed about this matter and, amongst other things, he said that the Government would have to review the finances of the Wool Corporation in that coming season. He did not say what he meant by 'review' but the inference was quite clear- the Government would have to see whether it could responsibly continue to guarantee moneys to the Wool Corporation for the purchase of wool in a very depressed market, a much more depressed market than it is now. In May 1971, at one sale greasy wool was sold for an average price of 23c a lb, which is about 40 per cent of the current level. Despite what  Mr McMahon  said I do not recall the Leader or the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, who have been posing and posturing on this issue over the last couple of weeks, then demanding that  Mr McMahon  make a firm and unequivocal statement that the Government would stand behind the Corporation for a full 12 months and maintain a seasonal price, as they were demanding that the Prime Minister should do a couple of weeks ago. 
In conclusion, the attempts by the Leader and Deputy Leader of the National Country Party to undermine and destabilise the wool market did not cease even with the Caucus decision and the Press statement by the Minister for Agriculture. They kept up this campaign for a full week, demanding that the Prime Minister make an unequivocal statement that the further reserve price would be held. Never mind how unnecessary that was, never mind that the responsible Minister had made such a statement on behalf the Government, they said that the Prime Minister had to say so and that until he did no one could be sure that the Government really meant what it said. What possible reason could there have been for attempting to continually destabilise the market, other than their long-standing and permanent ambition to gain a bit of cheap political mileage? Anyway, they finally got what they demanded, and it should satisfy even the National Country Party. On 'National Farming News' on Thursday, 5 June, John Parker asked the Prime Minister this question: 
Prime Minister, will the Government definitely stand behind the reserve price of 250c in the wool market? 
The Prime Minister replied: 
Certainly it will do so, and it will do so throughout the 1 975-76 wool selling season. 
I hope that that will satisfy even the Leader and Deputy Leader of the National Country Party. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. I ask: Is it true, as reported in the June issue of the  Potato Grower  of Western Australia, in yesterday's  Canberra Times  and in a number of other sources that processed potatoes are being imported into Australia in quantities large enough to depress local prices? Can the Minister provide up to date statistics on monthly potato imports? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture and refers to yesterday's announcement of the sale of an additional 250 000 tonnes of wheat to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics following an earlier sale of 750 000 tonnes. I ask: Was credit involved in the new sale? What is the total value of both sales? Is the Minister certain that enough wheat is available in Australia to meet these new contracts? 
When  Senator Cotton  stood to open the debate on this Bill for the Opposition early this afternoon, he put forward the defence of the Opposition in the Senate for deferring this legislation since the beginning of June.  Senator Cotton  said that it was quite reasonable that the Opposition should ask for that 1 1-week period- I think it has been 1 1 weeks- in which to consider this legislation properly and to receive the views of various people with an interest in the insurance industry either as suppliers or as consumers. It seems to be a quite reasonable proposition that the Opposition should have taken time to review the Bill, to think seriously about it and to study it properly. The problem, however, seems to be that the Opposition has not made very effective use of that 1 1-week period it has had in which to ruminate upon the legislation. 
That became apparent, I regret to say, during  Senator Cotton's  speech when he claimed that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation would be exempt from fire brigade levies. I understand that that statement is in conflict with recognised legal opinion about the Bill. It became totally apparent when  Senator Sheil  stood to speak. Quite clearly, he had not read the Bill. He told us that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation would be exempt from the Life Insurance Act and the Insurance Act. Of course, if he had cared to look at clauses 15 and 16 of the Bill he would have seen that those 2 Acts quite explicitly will apply to the Corporation. 
Yes, an auditing procedure since it will be covered by the Government Auditor. As for the fire brigade levy and all other levies which may be imposed by States or local government authorities, they are covered in clause 46(1) and (2) of the Bill. Although it seemed to be a reasonable proposition, an eminently reasonable proposition, that members of the Opposition should have time to study the Bill, obviously at least most of those who have spoken about it have not done so. 
The second weakness in  Senator Cotton's  proposition was that he postulated that the Senate would make its decision on this Bill. He said that the members of the Opposition in the Senate would decide whether this Bill would be passed or not. At the risk of provoking a confrontation in the Liberal Party, I refer  Senator Cotton  to a letter that was published in the  Australian  on 17 July 1974 and written by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Withers.  In it  Senator Withers  stated quite unequivocally that it was the responsibility of Liberal senators in this Parliament to vote in accordance with decisions taken by the entire Parliamentary Liberal Party. It is a farce to suggest that this is a decision made in isolation or independently by the Opposition members in the Senate. It is a decision which has been made by the entire Liberal Party. Members of that Party are reluctant to acknowledge that because it shows the complete farce of their assertion that this Senate is a States House and an independent House. Of course it is a party House and it is regarded as such on both sides of the Parliament. It is just that the rules are spelt out a little more explicitly in my Party. 
Obviously the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  did not utilise his 11 -week study period very effectively either. As was remarked yesterday, he appeared before a gathering of insurance company lackeys on the steps of Parliament House or in Parkes Place on Monday and informed that gathering, that highly misled gathering, that the Corporation would be exempt from the Life Insurance Act and the Insurance Act. So, even after this 1 1-week study period, there appears to be an astounding amount of ignorance on the Opposition side about the provisions of this Bill 
Not since the late 1 940s when I first began to take some interest in politics can I remember a piece of legislation which has been so grossly misrepresented as this Bill has been. Not since the Banking Bill of 1947 have so many lies been peddled by people in responsible positions inside and outside the Parliament as have been peddled about this piece of legislation. 
The self-perpetuating oligarchs who control the life offices in particular see their private empires being threatened, with little justification. They seem to have a paranoid reaction to this legislation. The self-perpetuating oligarchs in the life offices are regarded by the naive members of the Opposition sitting across the corridor as benevolent servants of the public who hold their positions only because they have the approval and the goodwill of the millions of little people who hold policies. It is incredible that this sort of nonsense should be put forward in the national Parliament, indicating that the insurance companies, the life offices or the mutual life offices really operate in this way. It is accepted by the Opposition without doubts or reservations that the selfperpetuating oligarchs who control the mutual life offices are public benefactors. It is said that, if an insurance corporation were responsible to the elected government of the country, for some reason that has not been explained, it would develop into some sort of juggernaut which would erode civil liberties and ride roughshod over the interests and desires of the people. There is some danger, of course, that any large bureaucracy will develop a reason for existence of its own, quite independently of the ostensible reasons for its existence; but at least if we have a government-controlled bureaucracy or a governmentcontrolled corporation the people really elect the government. The policy holders of the mutual life offices do not elect the people who sit on those boards; those people elect each other and choose their own successors. 
While I am speaking of governments and elections I should say something which I do not think has been mentioned yet.  Senator Wright  may be interested in this since he seems to have some respect for the decisions that the people make at elections, or decisions that he anticipates that the people will make shortly. It was spelt out quite explicitly in the policy speech delivered in April 1974 by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that the Government would establish this Corporation. I think that appears on page 23 of the published version of that speech, but I do not have it with me at the moment. The Government was quite explicit. There has been nothing underhand about this legislation. The proposal was spelt out very clearly before the election in May 1974 at which, I remind  Senator Wright,  the people re-elected the present Government. 
-That is  Senator Wright's  opinion. I have heard that some of the dinosaurs who sit in the Legislative Council of South Australia as representatives of  Senator Wright's  Party say that they know the permanent will of the people. They have some divine or psychic insight which enables them to determine the permanent will of the people. The permanent will of the people presumably is that the Labor Party should never govern in South Australia or anywhere else. I did not think that  Senator Wright's  views were quite so antediluvian as the views of his colleagues who sit in the Legislative Council in South Australia. This conscious misrepresentation of the facts concerning this Bill tends to have poisoned all discussion or all accurate reporting of discussion concerning the insurance industry. 
I cite a report which was published in the  West Australian  on 12 July last of a meeting addressed by  Mr R.  S. Nords, acting State Manager of National Mutual Life Association of Australasia Ltd who, I understand, was one of the major organisers behind that spontaneous campaign of protest which the general public and insurance company staffs have been conducting for the last couple of months. In this spontaneous campaign of protest I recall that in one day in this Parliament I received 20-odd letters all with identical enclosures, all apparently typed on the same typewriter, posted in 2 post boxes and bearing identical postage stamps. Apparently I was supposed to be gullible enough to believe that these 20-odd identical letters of protest typed on the same machine in, I think, the office of the National Mutual Life Association,  Mr Norris's  company, were part of a spontaneous display of opposition by private but deeply concerned citizens. 
Returning to  Mr Nords,  he was speaking on a subject that is very near and dear to the heart of the life assurance industry- the special taxation perks which it has received over a number of years from a very generous government. They were explicitly designed to direct far more money into the life offices under the control of the self-perpetuating oligarchs who run them than would have occurred in a neutral tax situation. There are implications in that which I will deal with later.  Mr Nords  was complaining about the fact that these tax deductions for life assurance premiums had not been increased since 1967. He stated firstly: 
Two Government-requested reports on taxation presented in recent weeks have recommended that the maximum allowable deduction be increased. 
In another section of his address  Mr Nords  is reported to have stated: 
The Asprey report on taxation had recommended that no upper limit should be placed on the amount allowed as a tax deduction for the payment of life assurance and superannuation. 

 Mr Norris's claim simply was not true. The Mathews Committee put as a general recommendation the indexation of personal tax deductions. It passed no judgment on whether a $ 1 ,200 limit was appropriate. There was a blanket recommendation for indexation. The Asprey report, far from stating that no upper limit should be placed on the amount allowed as a taxation deduction for life assurance and superannuation premiums, stated in paragraph 105 of chapter 21 of its report that superannuation deductions for 'self-employed persons should as now be subject to overall dollar limitation'. So  Mr Norris  obviously has either little understanding of what was contained in those reports or consciously and deliberately misrepresented the facts. It is a choice between whether  Mr Norris  is either simply incompetent or deceitful. I regret to state that the only morning newspaper which is published in the city of Perth declined to publish a correction of  Mr Norris's  attempt to mislead the public. 
One other of the many misrepresentations that have been thrown out by the insurance industry lobby and their stooges in this Parliament and elsewhere was that 10 000 people would lose their jobs in the insurance industry if this Bill were passed. The clear implication of that assertion surely must be that there are 10 000 supernumeraries currently working in the private insurance industry. The Government Insurance Corporation may take business that would have been privately written and presumably the number of employees required would be about the same, but if the Government Corporation was as inefficient and bureaucratic as members of the Opposition would have us believe it will be there would be a greater demand for labour. However, here we have the insurance industry and its stooges claiming that 10 000 workers would be retrenched. Surely the only conclusion one could draw from that is that there are 10 000 supernumeraries who would have to be retrenched if competition from the Government Insurance Corporation forced private insurance companies to operate more efficiently. It is interesting that there seems to be a belief in some quarters that if someone is a salesman or a clerk in a private insurance office he is a highly productive and valuable member of society but if he is a clerk in a government insurance corporation he is a bludger and a supernumerary. I have never been able to follow the logic that produces that sort of conclusion. 
Perhaps there is an analogy here which demonstrates the lengths to which the Opposition is willing to go to distort its logic to suit its friends outside this Parliament. I remember that when Medibank was being introduced one of the major objections to Medibank raised by the conservative forces was that it would lead to a gross overuse of medical services since people would no longer be personally responsible for any payment for medical services; they would be completely covered by Medibank. This was dreadful, according to the opponents of Medibank, and we had to stop it. People had to be made to pay 50c as they walked out of the doctor's surgery otherwise there would be queues half a mile long outside the surgery. We now find that the selfperpetuating oligarchs who run the medical benefits funds, especially in New South Wales, have devised all sorts of schemes under which they can justify their continued existence or make the public believe that their continued existence is justified by offering to cover the 15 per cent gap between the standard Medibank refund and the schedule fee. In other words, these insurance funds are expediting the availability of medical treatment to individuals without direct charge to the patients. Strangely I have not heard a whisper of criticism from the General Practitioners Society, the Australian Medical Association or from any of the people who sit in the Opposition in this Parliament. The old objection to people receiving medical treatment without charge and the rationale behind it seem to have been completely forgotten. 
One of the reasons for introducing this Bill was that to the degree that the insurance industry is profitable and particularly to the degree that it is foreign-owned, it is desirable that the government corporation to some extent should supplant the existing operators, especially the foreign operators. But there are other reasons, particularly the desire or need to establish a national interest insurance corporation or an insurance corporation to cover national interest. It is worth noting that the Australian private insurance industry has not got a very good track record when it comes to innovations. For example, the Government was forced by default to establish the Export Payments Insurance Corporation- the Export Finance Insurance Corporation as it is now known- and the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. Private operators had shown little or no initiative in moving into these areas. Although they are alleged to have shown some initiative in moving into national interest insurance earlier this year, I know that the proposal they put forward is based almost entirely on the New Zealand scheme. It ignores the simple reality that in New Zealand the national government has much greater power over building regulations and safety standards and so on than does the government in a federalist state such as Australia. 
The first real reason that the Opposition is opposed to the establishment of the Corporation is purely a very shoddy political one. The Australian Mutual Provident Society has gone into alliance with the National Country Party of Australia with the object of defeating the Labor Government at the next election. I am sure that we all remember how  Senator Wheeldon  exposed the fact that the AMP had made a shoddy deal with 8 Country Party members of the House of Representatives. Under the terms of that deal the AMP representatives throughout Australia were to act as electoral agents for the Country Party between the present time and the next election campaign.  Senator Wheeldon  exposed that fact so clearly that the people concerned finally were forced to admit to it, although reluctantly. I suppose since the Country Party has gone into alliance with the AMP and since the AMP has desires to kill this Bill, the Country Party as usual has probably told the Liberal Party what to do. As I understand it, the present Leader of the Liberal Party once leaned towards the establishment of the Corporation and was somewhat in favour of it. 
The second reason the Opposition is opposed to the establishment of the Corporation is simple ideological bigotry. Members of the Opposition pose as though they have a boundless faith in the efficiency and justice of the free enterprise system. Yet they have a curious ambivalence about free enterprise. One example to which I have already referred briefly concerns the matter of tax deductions and other preferential tax treatment for life assurance companies. Almost every senator who has spoken from the Opposition side in this debate tonight has said that these concessions should be continued. The reason they should be continued, so they say, is that they will enable a greater flow of funds to be directed into the life insurance industry than would apply in a neutral tax situation. It seems to me that in putting forward that view  Senator Carrick  and others are repudiating the assertion that  Senator Carrick  made when he unequivocally rejected the idea- I tried to take his words down accurately; I feel sure that any error is minor- that government knows better than people how they should do things and how they should spend their money. 
If  Senator Carrick  really believes that governments should not pre-empt decisions about the way in which money is to be invested he should oppose the granting of special taxation provisions for life assurance companies. That sort of ambivalence- the difference between the professed faith in the doctrine of free enterprise and the actual political practices that they follow- is by no means confined to  Senator Carrick.  A very recent example of the contradiction between rhetoric and reality or ideological posturing and policy came from the present Leader of the Federal Opposition.  Senator Wright  touched on this issue tonight, in agreement with  Mr Fraser. Mr Fraser  and many others,  Senator Wright  included, have constantly asserted that superphosphate should be heavily subsidised on the ground that subsidised superphosphate will induce much greater efficiency in agriculture. If superphosphate is not subsidised, the argument goes, farmers will use much less than they should, consequently agricultural efficiency will fall and national income will not be maximised. 
Leaving aside the question whether that assertion is correct, the real point, which is relevant to this debate also, is that people who make those sorts of assertions repudiate the central tenet of free enterprise, which is that private entrepreneurs can and do make more sensible management decisions than politicians or government bureaucrats. They expose themselves at the best to a charge of intellectual sloth and at the worst to a charge of hypocrisy on the ground that they support free enterprise, not because they really believe that it provides a more effective mechanism for organising a system of production but because it provides the rationale for an existing, unequal but, for them, advantageous distribution of wealth and income. 

 Senator Wright seems to be a fearless advocate of government non-involvement in economic affairs. If  Senator Wright  really believes that I wish he would stand in the Senate tonight or at some other time and advocate that the Government should withdraw its shipping service to Tasmania, that that is an area which the Government should abdicate and leave entirely to private enterprise.  Senator Wright,  as a senator representing Tasmania, no doubt would be happy to accept the consequential higher freight rates which would be imposed if the Government should withdraw. 
Whether the Government should or should not be involved in the economy, whether it should operate a shipping service to Tasmania, or whether it should sponsor the Australian Government Insurance Corporation are matters of subjective value judgment that are not subjective to any scientific proof. I am amazed at the amount of heat which can be generated in opposition to the attempt to establish a government insurance corporation or in opposition to any other decision of that nature. Granted that the decision to expand public ownership or public participation usually rests on the sort of subjective value judgment to which I have referred, a decision, once made, is not irreversible. There are numerous examples in Australia of government trading enterprises which have been sold or closed. Even in the UK the fully nationalised steel industry was de-nationalised in the 1 950s. Although the Opposition spokesman claim that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will have unlimited money available to it under the provisions of the Bill, the fact is that the Corporation will have only those amounts of money available to it which may be appropriated by the Parliament from time to time. In other words, its finance will be completely under the control of the Parliament. I do not see why the Opposition should object to that fact particularly. Nor do I see why it should become so hysterical over a decision with which it may disagree but which, whether it is right or wrong, can subsequently be reversed anyway. 
There is a situation with which to contrast this situation. Neither the several hundred Australian conscripts who were killed in Vietnam or the Vietnamese killed by them could be resurrected by a subsequent decision by the Australian electorate that our involvement was foolish, or by the subsequent disclosure that our involvement was predicated on a series of lies sanctioned or concocted by the government of the day. I find it ironic, to say the least, that people who oppose the extension of public ownership with quasireligious zeal very strongly tend to be the same people who were eager to maintain the premium on what they call our insurance policy with the United States, when the premium in question was someone else's life or someone else's physical liberty. I commend the Bill. 
Has the Minister for Labor and Immigration seen a report in the  West Australian  of 15 August in which the Premier of Western Australia cities figures concerning State and Federal Public Service growth rates? The figures cited by the Premier reveal that the Federal Public Service increased by 3.3 per cent last year while the State Public Service in Victoria grew by 10.5 per cent and the State Public Service in Queensland by almost 8 per cent. Does the Minister know whether the figures cited by  Sir Charles  Court, the Liberal Premier of Western Australia, are correct? If they are, can he offer any explanation for the astronomical growth rates in the Public Services of the Liberal Party and/or National Country Party governed States of Queensland and Victoria? In particular is the growth in Queensland related to the explosion in the number of public relations officers- propagandists- employed by the Premier of Queensland to promote his personal image and the image of his Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. It also probably impinges upon his responsibility as Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I ask: Has the Minister seen or been made aware of an Australian Broadcasting Commission radio interview last evening during which a  Mr Scarlett,  who presented himself as being a spokesman for New South Wales surgeons, insisted that sessional services by doctors in hospitals were not in the interests of patients and that unless surgeons could be paid on a fee for service basis standards would fall? In the same interview it was implied that the whole idea of sessional service was contrary to the best standard of care in hospitals and stemmed anyway from a centralist, socialist government which did not care about standards. Can the Minister comment on the validity of the claims by the spokesmen for certain surgeons that sessional service leads to a lowering of standards? Further, is it a fact that payments are made on a sessional basis at repatriation hospitals? Is the service provided on a sessional basis at those repatriation hospitals generally regarded as being of an inferior standard, as  Mr Scarlett  has alleged? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Agriculture, concerns the arrival of refugees from Timor at Darwin and the possible introduction of foot and mouth disease or other animal diseases. What efforts are being made to ensure that such diseases do not enter Australia by way of Timor refugees? 

 - Senator Martin has displayed some interest in the authorship of speeches that have been delivered here this evening. I must confess that I was wondering who had written the speech that she just read. By its virulent anti-Labor and anti-Canberra tone, I thought it may have been written by the Premier of Queensland, but of course it was much too literate and grammatical to have been written by him. Perhaps it was written by one of his 46 professional public relations men.  Senator Martin  has dealt at great length with what she sees as the iniquity of the application to the Post Office of the principle that the user should pay. Whilst it is acknowledged that it is ultimately a value judgment as to whether this principle should be applied, I should like to remind  Senator Martin  that in repudiating the principle that the user should pay she is also repudiating the fundamental beliefs of her Leader's guru, Ayn Rand, who asserts quite dogmatically that governments should never interfere in the market place in that way. I also remind her- she is not the only one who can do arithmetic- that if she is very concerned about the plight of the poor pensioners who have to pay an extra 8c for a postage stamp, by way of comparison, that the difference expressed as a percentage of average weekly earnings in the pensions paid by this Government and the pensions paid by the last Liberal-Country Party Government would be enough to pay the increased postage charge on 17 letters a day or about 6000 letters a year. 
I am grateful to  Senator Martin  for answering a question that had earlier been raised by  Senator Marriott. Senator Marriott  asked the rhetorical question: 'Does Northbourne Avenue pay its way?'  Senator Martin  went on to tell us that the revenue collected by way of taxes on fuels used on roads exceeds the total expenditure on roads in Australia. Whether that should or should not be is once again a value judgment; it is a fact that it happens. So in answer to  Senator Marriott's  question, the fact is that Northbourne Avenue does more than pay its way. It is one of the urban arterial roads- I am not sure whether it is officially classified as an urban arterial road, but its traffic density puts it into that categorywhich carry one half of the vehicle miles travelled in Australia and account for only onethird of the total expenditure on roads and of course pay their way for more than roads do overall. So  Senator Martin  has apparently put a view which is in contradiction at least with the belief of  Senator Marriott,  as well as repudiating the philosophy for which her Leader has expressed such an enormous admiration. So I suggest that members of the Liberal Party should liaise better before they participate in the Budget debate. 
Perhaps they should think out their own programs more logically before their Leader delivers his speech; I shall say a little more about that later. I commend the Government on this Budget, and in particular I commend the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden).  I believe that it bears his personal stamp perhaps more than any other Budget which has been delivered in Australia for a very long time has borne the stamp of the man who introduced it. The Treasurer has always been a man who is deeply concerned with the distribution of income and the concept of equality. Regardless of all the arguments about the aggregate level of government expenditure, the composition of government expenditure, the aggregate level of government revenue or the way in which it is raised, this Budget does represent a major social reform insofar as it has restructured the taxation system and personal allowances. Regardless of all the other arguments, this major social reform, I trust, even under a different government will remain a permanent feature of Australian life. The logic underlying the granting of personal allowances for dependants and for other reasons, as the Treasury taxation paper released last year pointed out, is desirable in order to maintain horizontal equity between taxpayers. That means that it is highly desirable that the taxation system should recognise the fact that people on the same aggregate level of income do have different needs and that some compensation should be made through the taxation system for this reason. That was the rationale behind the system of personal deductions. But then the personal deductions, as they operated in practice, contradicted their own reason for existence insofar as the greatest assistance was provided to the people with the highest incomes and the least assistance was provided to the people with the lowest incomes. Under the new taxation rebate provisions announced by the Treasurer last week the same net monetary gain is provided to all taxpayers regardless of their level of income. Although this appears to be, and is, a major social reform, the concept or the principle is not entirely new. It has been practised before in Australia. It was introduced by the wartime Labor Governments. It was retained right up to 1951 when the Menzies Government, as part of its program to promote inequality in Australian society- a belief which I notice the current Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  shares- abolished this just and equitable system. I applaud its return. Without going into a mass of details, what the taxation reforms really mean is that for the typical family- the single income family consisting of a man with a spouse and 2 dependants- there will be a reduction in tax paid of the order of $8 a week plus, it should be noted, the saving of contributions to medical insurance funds of an additional $3 to $4 a week, these contributions of course having been rendered unnecessary and obsolete by the introduction of Medibank. 
The Budget should be considered in conjunction with Medibank in respect of its impact on the typical family. So it provides effective assistance of around $ 10 to $ 1 1 a week for the typical family. The broader and more difficult question of the magnitude of government expenditure, government revenue and government deficit, if any, is an area in which no sensible person should be dogmatic. It is freely recognised by the Government, and I think by Australian society generally, that grave economic problems confront the nation. Our present crisis, if 'crisis' is not too dramatic a word, arises from a number of causes. Firstly, there is the simple fact that the Whitlam Government, on assuming office, inherited an explosive economy. It inherited an economy in which the money supply had increased at an annual rate of 34 per cent in the last quarter of 1 972 as a direct result of the misconceived policies of the McMahon LiberalCountry Party Government. It is ironic, to say the least, that the Parties which presided over this 34 per cent increase in the money supply in the last quarter of 1 972 should have the audacity in their national economic program published in February of this year, to make this statement: 
Immediate policy actions are necessary to restrain the excessive and dangerously inflationary growth of the money supply. 
In the next paragraph the Liberal and Country Parties made this statement: 
The present growth rate of more than 20 per cent is highly irresponsible. 
The Liberal and Country Parties said that a growth rate of more than 20 per cent was highly irresponsible. These are the Parties which presided over a growth rate of 34 per cent before the electorate removed them from office. Surely only a Party which waffles about personal freedom and protecting the rights of the individual against the tyranny of the State at the same time as it passes conscription Acts and at two of its 
State conferences within the last month passes motions again demanding the reintroduction of conscription- surely only a Party that is capable of producing that sort of fundamental contradiction and a Leader who sent conscripts into the war in Indo China and waffles about personal freedom- only a Party and a Leader such as that could describe a growth rate of more than 20 per cent in the money supply as highly irresponsible when they presided over a growth rate of 34 per cent - 

 - Mr Harradine is not given the alternative of 1 8 months in gaol or going to fight in a war in Indo China which was based on a tissue of lies concocted and promoted,  Senator Marriott,  by the Government of which you were a member. The other major cause of the present economic problems was the booming export prices which occurred early in 1973. Wool and meat prices in particular, and wheat and the booming price for minerals, contributed substantially to the already excessive demand by further increasing the money supply. Notwithstanding the courageous action which was taken by the Whitlam Government immediately it took office, meat prices alone were responsible for 25 per cent of the total increase in the consumer price index for the year ended March 1974. So on top of the already explosive situation which the Government inherited, it had this accidental factor of booming export prices which both inflated the domestic consumer price index and added to an already excessive domestic demand. Finally, and I acknowledge this quite objectively, the implementation of the expenditure program on which the Labor Government was elected in 1 972 was a final contributing factor. 
So in that sort of difficulty the framing of a budget is not an easy task. Whether the Treasurer's judgment and the Government's judgment is correct only time will tell, but the Budget is a bold attempt to rescue the economy from the difficulties into which it has drifted and simultaneously to protect the welfare of the weaker members of society. To succeed it requires the co-operation of the Labor movement as a whole and of the industrial wing of the Labor movement. It requires the co-operation of businessmen and it also requires political stability. It requires time to work in a politically stable environment; it probably does not have that. We all remember that the political pirates who sit opposite in this chamber- 22 of them are still here- took the unprecedented step in May 1974 of rejecting the Supply Bills and forcing the 
Government to a premature election. As a result of that active political vandalism, and ultimately economic vandalism, no government in Australia, probably within my lifetime, will ever be assured that it has more than 6 months in office if it faces a hostile Senate. 
Is the Liberal Party contrite as a result of the reprehensible action which it took in 1974? Obviously it was not at all contrite while  Mr Snedden  was Leader because he continually threatened to do the same thing again. The present Leader of the Liberal Party is also far from contrite. I quote from the  West Australian  of 22 August under the Canberra dateline which states: 
The Opposition will not force a general election by rejecting the Budget in the Senate. 
The article continues: 
The Opposition Leader,  Mr Fraser,  announced this last night- but made it clear that the decision was based on technicalities rather than principle. 
So  Mr Fraser  frankly acknowledges that he has no more principles than the man he replaced. The report continues: 
On the possibility of the Opposition rejecting the supply Bills next April he said - 
That is  Mr Fraser- 
Next year? That is much too far off. ' 
So the Liberal Party is not at all contrite and obviously it intends to continue to promote the speculation about another premature election and hopes thereby to sabotage the Budget. 
-I understand that the squire of Wannon was caught with his pants down the other day. By contrast with the Treasurer's equitable and responsible approach, we look at the reaction of the Leader of the Opposition in particular and of the Opposition generally. After a whole week of what the Melbourne  Age  succinctly described as waffle, irresponsibility and trivia, finally last night the Leader of the Opposition delivered his and the Opposition's reply to the Hayden Budget. It could be described, I think not too unfairly, as a perverted mish mash of Calvinist authoritarianism, Ayn Rand's so-called objectivism and traditional Liberal Party double speech. 
Ayn Rand 's objectivism is much too complicated. The Calvinist authoritarianism is reflected in statements such as: There should be the minimum of interference with alternative lifestyles which are themselves compatible with human dignity'. That statement does not come from  Mr Fraser  's reply to the Budget; it comes from one of his earlier speeches. Presumably  Mr Fraser  will define what lifestyles are compatible with human dignity and what lifestyles are not. Presumably those lifestyles which  Mr Fraser  judges to be incompatible with human dignity will be ruthlessly stamped out. That is what I regard as Calvinist authoritarianism, coupled with his and his Party's penchant for conscription. The Fraser reply, so called, was irreconcilable with the claims made and the promises and assurances given by many of his colleagues in statements that there should be more money for the States, that there must be more money for defence. I notice that he did not cover even the additional $10m that would be required to continue the cadet corps, even though his own shadow Defence Minister had given an undertaking that very day that a future Liberal-National Country Party government would continue the cadet corps. That $10m was not costed or accounted in  Mr Fraser  's hypothetical alternative budget. 
In addition, Opposition spokesmen had been running around promising the New Guineans that they would have more money if the Liberal Party were in power. Then there are the Richmond and north coast bushrangers who have to pay off their debts to the rural community, and there has been irresponsible talk about providing hundreds of millions of dollars for the beef industry and so on. None of these things were accounted for in the speech in reply delivered by the Leader of the Opposition. Although he indulged in a great deal of carping criticism in the hypothetical alternative budget which he presented of things like excise increases on tobacco and alcohol and the postal increases, which  Senator Martin  dealt with at such great length, no provision was made for any change whatsoever in the Government's decisions in these areas. So notwithstanding the very significant errors of omission and the conflict between the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition and the assorated statements of his lieutenants and coalition colleagues, he asserted, and I quote from  Hansard. 
Our program is based on no increase in the deficit, and this will be made possible by a reduced rate of government expenditure. 
Even though he asserted that there would be no increase in the deficit, in fact when the figures which he presented are added up it is found that there is a discrepancy of $ 1,800m- a $ 1,800m increase in the deficit, given the things that  Mr Fraser  had stated in his speech and without counting all the things which he did not state but which his colleagues had referred to. It is sometimes said by cynics that members of the Liberal Party cannot count very well because they do not vote at Liberal Party meetings. I do not know how much that has to do with  Mr Fraser's  gross error in accountancy or how much it has to do with the fact that his current No. 1 economic adviser- I understand he is the Liberal Party candidate for Macarthur- came to that position from Patrick Partners, a firm which was out by about $2.5m in its accounting. The person who was counting the money in Patrick Partners made an error of $2. 5m, and if that same person is doing the accounting for  Mr Fraser,  because he is dealing with larger aggregates his error has increased to $ 1,800m. Whether the error could be ascribed to the affiliation with  Mr Fraser  of  Mr Michael  Baume, who is the Liberal Party candidate for Macarthur whose association with Patrick Partners has demonstrated a certain weakness in matters mathematical, I do not know, but nevertheless that is the error he made-$ 1,800m. 
When attempting to explain the expenditure cuts that the hypothetical Liberal government would have achieved had it been bringing in a budget,  Mr Fraser  placed a great deal of importance on the size of the Commonwealth Public Service. In his speech last evening he said: 
We would have stopped - 
That is, if the Liberal Party had been introducing the Budget-  the build-up of public servants in Canberra by imposing a zero growth limit on the Public Service. 
I am riot entirely certain what  Mr Fraser  meant by that because of course there are public servants employed by the national government who live in places other than Canberra- I think a quite significant number. There are probably more public servants living in Melbourne and Sydney than in Canberra. So I do not know why  Mr Fraser  specially mentioned Canberra, unless it was to stir up the League of Rights in north Queensland to stimulate the anti-Canberra paranoia which has been cultivated by people like the Premier of Queensland. Since  Mr Fraser  named the Public Service, presumably he is postulating no growth in the Federal Public Service either in Canberra or anywhere else in Australia.  His  statement begs the question: What about the States? What would  Mr Fraser  do, if he were Prime Minister, about the 10.5 per cent growth rate in the State Public Service of the Liberal governed State of Victoria in the last financial year and the 7.96 per cent growth rate in Queensland, compared with the 3.3 per cent growth rate of the Federal Public Service under the Whitlam Government? 
If  Mr Fraser  sees the growth rate of the Public Service as one of the direct causes or a significant cause of the nation's economic problems, he seems to have picked the wrong area to attack. Instead of attacking the Whitlam Government he would be well advised to spend his time attacking the Liberal Government of Victoria and the National-Liberal Party Government of Queensland. There is little indication that the latter Government has any intention of reducing its rate of Public Service expansion, since I noticed in the Press recently that the Premier of Queensland has now acquired an air force. The ostensible reason was to find marihuana plantations. I do not know whether he would recommend subsidising the growers of any plantations which were found. I do not know whether that was the reasoning behind the acquisition of the aircraft. I do not know whether he intends to use the Queensland air force to bomb Canberra or whether he intends to ask  Senator Martin  to throw a grenade in the Senate. Speaking of  Senator Martin,  I am reminded of something which I should have said previously. I am reminded of the errors of omission in the accounting of the Leader of the Opposition. If, as  Senator Martin  seemed to be demanding, the postal and telephone charges were left as they are,  Mr Fraser  somehow or other would have to account for an extra $348m because that is the estimated difference between the revenue from the old charges and the revenue from the new charges. So, by the time all the errors which are within  Mr Fraser's  speech and the errors of omission which are not in it are added up, the consequence of the Budget he has advocated would be a deficit in the vicinity of $6 billion- certainly $5 billion. The inflationary consequences of that sort of deficit are mind boggling. 
It is quite clear that one section which has been treated extremely generously by the present national Government, not only this year but each year since it was elected, is the States. For example, this year the grants to the States, including the grants which ultimately will go to local authorities, have been increased by 32 per cent, which is very much higher than the increase in the consumer price index. In fact, it is double last year's increase in the consumer price index and is very much higher than the aggregate increase in Federal Government expenditure. In spite of this very generous treatment this year and last year, the Whitlam Government is constantly vilified and abused by anti-Labor State Premiers, particularly the Premier of Queensland and the 
Premier of my home State of Western Australia. I find rather interesting the maiden speech of the Premier of my home State,  Sir Charles  Court, in the Legislative Assembly of Western Australia on 20 August 1953. Just to refresh the minds of honourable senators of the history of the era I point out that in 1953 Western Australia had a State Labor Government and there was a Federal Liberal-Country Party Government. When  Sir Charles  was making his maiden speech under these political circumstances he said: 
I will now touch briefly on the question of CommonwealthState financial relationship. It is apparent that a drastic change in the Commonwealth-State financial relationship is necessary and, in my view, the approach must come primarily from the States. It is unreal to expect any Commonwealth Government, no matter what its political colour, continually to accept public criticisms and unpopularity for raising funds through taxation while the States, whose Governments in some cases have no compunction in criticising the incidence of taxation by the Commonwealth Government, want more and more money made available for their needs. In any organisation, it is axiomatic that there should be no responsibility without the requisite authority. It therefore follows that there should not be authority without the requisite responsibility. In all sincerity, I submit that we have largely brought about that undesirable state of affairs in the overall  fiancial  operations in Australia, namely, that one person is responsible for raising all the funds whereas other people do a large degree of the spending. 

 Sir Charles wound up that section of his speech by saying: 
The attitude adopted by some State governments has been a rather sorry and unstatesmanlike spectacle, because rather extravagant language has been used in condemning the Commonwealth Government for the stand it has taken. They have gone to the extent of saying that unemployment and depression will result from the action that has been taken over the last year or two. I submit that this is dangerous talk and bad psychologically. 
I agree particularly with that last statement. It is dangerous talk and bad psychologically. I hope that during the next year  Sir Charles  will heed his own words. I notice that  Sir Charles  is a great believer in economies. It is reported in today's  West Australian  that the Western Australian Government is studying the implications of the national Government's decision to effect an economy with respect to air travel.  Sir Charles  said that the position in Western Australia was different because it was so far away from the rest of the country and so on. I think it should be pointed out that the initial move to make this economy at the national level was made by 2 Western Australian Ministers,  Senator Wheeldon  and  Mr Berinson.  Obviously the responsible members of the Labor national Government are far more willing to make personal sacrifices than is  Sir Charles  Court, for all his irresponsible rhetoric. 
My time has almost expired. I wished to say something about life assurance and  Mr Fraser  's equivocal attitude to the question of taxation rebates vis-a-vis tax deductions. I hope some other  speaker  will take up the matter as I do not have the time.  Mr Fraser  produced 2 sacred cows for the pork barrel. The first was the meat export levy, which is pretty trivial in the overall national context. He gave an unequivocal undertaking that a Liberal-Country Party Government would remove this levy. In a submission to the Industries Assistance Commission on the beef industry inquiry last month the Bureau of Agricultural Economics commented on this issue. The BAE said: 
Measures such as the remission of marketing charges would be largely ineffective in achieving the objective of improving the liquidity position of beef producers. In the current situation of excess supply, the remission of levies associated with exports would enable a reduction to be made in export quotes -  that is export prices, and it is significant-  and so increase the volume of shipment if such markets were available. The availability of such markets is questionable. 
The BAE was saying that if this levy were removed the price offered by the foreign buyer would decline. Whereas in a normal competitive market that would enable producers to sell a greater volume, because of the nature of the market at the moment not another tonne of meat would be sold; the price offered by the foreign buyer would be reduced. In other words, what  Mr Fraser  is proposing off the top of his head is that the taxpayers of Australia in this difficult and stringent financial situation should make a donation of the magnitude of $20m to the foreign buyers who are already getting meat from Australia at extremely low prices. That, I think, sums up the superficial and erroneous approach which the Opposition has taken to the Budget. I oppose the amendment and support the motion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. No doubt he is aware that the Liberal and Country Parties have recently committed any future Liberal-Country Party Government to the restoration of the superphosphate bounty. Can he say whether this decision by the coalition is soundly based economically? Is there any evidence to show that prominent members of the Opposition have a vested interest in the reintroduction of the bounty? 
My question which follows on from matters raised by  Senator Greenwood  this morning and yesterday is directed to the Acting Attorney-General. In view of the repeated promises of Opposition parties to restore the superphosphate bounty, and in view of the fact that the Leader of the Opposition, the Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party of Australia, and at least 6 Opposition senators stand to gain substantially and directly from the restoration of the bounty, should the whole question be referred to the Joint Committee on the Pecuniary Interests of Members of the Parliament? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Have private insurance organisations which operate in the Australian Capital Territory been endeavouring to persuade people through advertising and other means to take out health insurance at higher levels than they need? If so, what action has been taken to prevent this deceptive practice and properly inform residents of their position? 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture: In view of the improved prospects for the coming Australian wheat harvest, especially in Western Australia, what is the current marketing forecast and, particularly, what time is likely to be needed to dispose of the crop? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen a Press report in which the national director, I think he is called, of the Liberal Party of Australia,  Mr Eggleton,  accused the Australian Labor Party of generating election speculation so that it could blame the Opposition for creating political instability? Is the source of political instability the equivocation of the Opposition over whether it will pass the Appropriation Bills? If this instability so concerns the Liberal Party, could it be removed if Opposition senators in this place gave an unequivocal assurance that they will not block the Appropriation Bills? 
Is the Minister for Agriculture aware that rumours are circulating within the wool industry both inside Australia and, I understand, overseas that the Government is considering replacing the wool floor price scheme with a price deficiency scheme or a deficiency payments scheme? Is there any truth in those rumours? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and relates to Medibank. Has he seen an article in the  Financial Review  of 1 October which states that, under the Medibank hospitals agreement signed at the end of September by the New South Wales State Government, nursing homes and pyschiatric hospitals which previously qualified for hospital benefits will be excluded from hospital benefits under Medibank? Can he advise the Senate whether there is any truth in this allegation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I ask: Firstly, is the Minister aware of the serious bush fire hazard that exists in the Kalgoorlie region and the eastern gold fields region of Western Australia generally? Secondly, will the Minister for Defence give favourable consideration to allowing the Kambalda-Kalgoorlie unit of the Citizen Military Force to train and be available for bush fire fighting duties in the area during this summer? 
In the June issue of the magazine  Quadrant  an article concerning the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  written by John Singleton, was published. Among other things the article contained this revelation: 
The Labor gang have decided that the only way to nationalise industry is to debauch the currency. It is a nice little theory that has been expounded by a couple of well known socialists in the past, among them Lenin and Marx. 
A female citizen who lives in Perth wrote subsequently to  Mr Singleton  expressing her interest. She stated that she wished to study the matter carefully and asked him whether he could identify for her the relevant passage from Marx and cite the source. Some weeks later she received a reply from which I will quote in a moment. The reply came on the stationery of the Workers Party and was signed by one R. A. Howard, Governing Director of the Workers Party. It stated: 
John Singleton passed your letter of August 1 1 , 1 975 on to me for reply, because it was I who gave him the statement by Marx. 
I'm afraid I cannot help you with the information as to precisely where Marx made the statement. I 'm not familiar enough with his works to know. I heard of the quote from Mark Tier, who in turn heard of it from Miss Sudah Shenoy. Miss Shenoy is an academic economist who was at the University of Newcastle last year. However she is now at Cranfield School of Management in Cranfield England, so she is a bit difficult to contact. If you are interested enough to do so, I am sure that if you wrote to Miss Shenoy she would be able to help you.  Her  address is: Cranfield School of Management, Cranfield Bedford, England. (There is a chance that the statement might have been made originally by Lenin rather than Marx.) 
I am a little confused whether Lenin picked up that statement from Karl Marx, who predeceased him by several decades, or whether  Mr Howard  was meaning to imply that Lenin had picked up the statement from Groucho or Harpo. 
I am informed by  Senator Coleman  that it was Chico. This sort of paranoiac prattling by right wing fanatics is of itself not very important or very dangerous. Probably far more important and potentially dangerous are the intimate links between the Liberal Party of New South Wales and Workers Party cranks such as John Singleton and the degree to which Workers Party propaganda has infected the minds of senior Liberal Party spokesmen. 
Before becoming probably the best known advocate for the newly formed Workers Party, John Singleton was advertising director for the Liberal Party of New South Wales for the 1973 State and 1974 Federal election campaigns. The baseless allegation about this Marxian conspiracy to destroy society by inflating the currency has on at least one occasion been mindlessly repeated by the present  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party and shadow Treasurer. On 15 January 1975  Mr Lynch  issued a Press release reminding us of- I quote from the release- 'Marx's comment that the most effective way to destroy established society is to grind it between the twin millstones of inflation and taxation'. Whether  Mr Lynch  repeats this claptrap knowing it to be false, or whether he is a particularly gullible victim of far right wing propaganda I do not know. Perhaps he will enlighten us. 
In conclusion, if, as  Mr Howard  states, the counterfeit Marxist quotation was peddled by Miss Sudah Shenoy, one of Newcastle University's academic economists, one should express perhaps some sympathy for the unfortunate economic students who were her victims at that institution and some alarm about the quality of the economic tutorage that they may have received from her. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I enter this debate on the Loan Bill in response to the scurrilous outburst by  Senator Carrick  last Wednesday evening. There appears to be no limit to the depths to which  Senator Carrick  will sink in his attempt to provide what his leader calls the reprehensible circumstances for inducing a constitutional crisis in this country. Last week  Senator Carrick  telephoned the Melbourne  Age  and told the editor of that newspaper that the Budget documents were shonky and that they had been concocted by public servants who loved the Labor Government so much that they were prepared to falsify the Budget documents to assist the Government to retain power. That is an example of the depths to which that Opposition spokesman is prepared to sink in his attempt to provide the so-called reprehensible circumstances which his leader wants to induce a constitutional crisis. 
Debate interrupted. 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration whether the unilateral decision by the doctors' union, which calls itself the Australian Medical Association, to increase charges by 14 percent from 1 January, coming as it does on top of its decision to increase charges by 12 per cent on 1 July, in defiance of a tribunal which it nominated, poses a threat to wage indexation and inflation control. Are such unilateral decisions frequently described as collective bargaining backed by the threat of strike action? Would it be appropriate to describe the AMA's actions in those terms? Is the Minister aware of any communistic influences in the Australian Medical Association? Is he aware of any criticism of the doctors' union by relevant spokesmen for the Opposition? 
I notice that  Senator Wood  declined  Senator Hall's  invitation to stand up and tell his radio listeners whether he was willing to doorknock in the city of Brisbane and tell his electors there that their vote should be less valuable than that of people who live in Port Augusta or the Riverina or Horsham or Stawell. So presumably  Senator Wood  does believe that his electors in the city of Brisbane should have less power in determining national policy, less say in such legislation as an ombudsman Bill, which  Senator Hall  cited as an example. Since he declined to accept  Senator Hall's  invitation, I assume that  Senator Wood  believes that the electors of Brisbane should have less influence and less power in governing Australia than the electors of Horsham or Stawell. I think it is important for the electors of Brisbane who may be listening to this broadcast that that point be established. The Bills which are being debated do not have anything to do with preferential voting, optional preferential voting, postal voting, oil drilling or the constitution of the Senate, although most of the argument or substitutes for argument put forward by the members of the Opposition related to those subjects. The Bills which are being debated this afternoon are the redistribution Bills which give effect to the Electoral Acts passed at the Joint Sitting of the Parliament in July of last year. They are Bills to implement those Acts, which are now the law of the land. It is important to note also that it is those redistribution Bills to implement what is the law of the land which are being opposed by the members of the Opposition and which they have forecast their intention to defeat. 

 Senator Carrick invited me to make some comments on electoral distribution in Western Australia. That is not the subject of these Bills, but since other honourable senators have seen fit to try to hang an argument on that subject I assume the same indulgence will be extended to me. Firstly, I refer to the Electoral Redistribution Bill introduced by the Tonkin Labor Government. I am sorry that  Senator Carrick  is not here. If he is listening on the  speaker,  I would remind him that the actions of the Tonkin Government were constrained at all times by the existence of a blatantly gerrymandered Legislative Council in Western Australia. That House is the most gerrymandered House in any Parliament in Australia, where one-third of the electors elect two-thirds of the members of the Legislative Council and two-thirds of the electors elect only one-third of the members, a four to one weighting based on the precept that some people shall be more equal than others. What the Tonkin Government was able to do in respect of electoral reform was constrained at all times by the existence of that blatantly gerrymandered and reactionary Upper House, which I should hasten to add misused its power on some 28 or 29 occasions, I think it was, during the existence of the Tonkin Government. 
I should also bring  Senator Carrick  up to date on the current electoral redistribution proposals in Western Australia which have been put forward by the Liberal-Country Party Government of  Sir Charles  Court.  Sir Charles  Court's Government proposes that a 10 per cent tolerance shall be allowed in the Perth metropolitan area- a 10 per cent deviation from the mean- but in country areas a 15 per cent deviation from the mean shall be allowed. Since the normal rationale for the existence of any sort of deviation is for the convenience of drawing boundaries and also to allow electoral commissioners to make some provision for rapid population changes in certain areas it seems peculiar, to say the least, that the Court Liberal Government in Western Australia should propose a greater deviation or tolerance from the mean in the agricultural areas where population numbers are relatively stable and propose a smaller deviation from the mean for those rapidly growing outer suburbs of Perth where population changes are rapid, even in the short term. It seems a little peculiar until, of course, one realises that the provision of a greater tolerance in the country areas would enable  Sir Charles  to rig more effectively the boundaries in the country by adjusting the numbers of electors who will be enrolled in the Labor held seats, centred on the major country towns. 
Also in Western Australia we have 4 northwest seats which are called statutory seats. They are not affected by this redistribution. They operate under a special Act. It is peculiar to note here that  Sir Charles  proposes to allow the existing boundaries to remain so that the electorate of Pilbara with about 14 000 people on the roll in the north-west will retain those 14 000 people while the electorates of Kimberley and Murchison-Eyre, of comparable geographic size, I should perhaps add, will have only 2000 to 2500 people on the roll. The reason that anomaly appeals to  Sir Charles  Court is, I suggest, that the electors in the Pilbara electorate have a much greater propensity to vote for the Australian Labor Party than the electors of the other 2 seats. 
I suppose this discourse on anomalies in the new electoral laws of Western Australia which have been proposed by  Sir Charles  Court serve once again to underline the point that  Senator Hall  was making when he congratulated  Senator Carrick  for opposing the introduction of optional preferential voting; but he pointed out the glaring inconsistency in the attitude of the Liberal Party on this question.  Mr De  Garis, the defacto leader of the Liberal Party in South Australia, has stated that the Liberal Party will support optional preferential voting in South Australia. What finally emerges is this conclusion: The Liberal Party, so far as electoral matters are concerned, operates on the assumption that what is expedient for the Liberal Party is right and what helps the Liberal Party to win will be done. 

 Senator Carrick 's comments on preferential and optional preferential voting are, as I noted earlier, of course, all entirely irrelevant to this Bill. The fact that  Senator Carrick  saw fit to spend the greater part of his time discussing these matters is a measure of his desperation. It illustrates that he had no valid points to make so he resorted to all sorts of irrelevancies as, indeed, did nearly every other member of the Opposition who has participated in this debate. These electoral redistribution proposals have been described, I think by every member of the Opposition, as being some sort of electoral fiddle. Honourable senators opposite allege that the proposals are deliberately designed and concocted to keep Labor in power forever or to give Labor, at the very least, a grossly unfair advantage in any ensuing election. 
It is interesting that none of the major capital city newspapers seem to have endorsed the Opposition's assessment of these Bills. The major capital city newspapers, which by no stretch of the imagination could be described as being traditionally pro-Labor, have all endorsed these proposals as being fair and just. It is perhaps even more interesting that Malcolm Mackerras who is, I think, regarded on both sides of politics as being the leading political statistical analyst in the country and to the best of my knowledge he was and still is an active member of the Liberal Party- has described these redistribution proposals as the fairest set of proposals that have ever been presented to any Australian Parliament. So we get down to the old principle, the well established Liberal and National Country Party principle, of what is expedient will be done and what is electorally convenient to the Liberal and Country Parties will be done. All this cant and humbug about justice and fair representation should be seen for what it is. 

 Senator Scott repeated the conventional rationale for disproportionate numbers of electors. He said that it was far more difficult for people to serve their electors in a dispersed country seat and therefore they should have fewer electors to serve in order that they may provide effective representation for those electors whom they nominally represent. I do not think  Senator Scott  would quarrel with my interpretation of the basis of his remarks. It is curious that this question of equality of representation and effective servicing of electors, or of people who live in the electorate, at least, seems to have been totally disregarded- in fact explicitly rejected- by  Senator Carrick. Senator Carrick  spent 5 minutes discussing the proposition whether electorate size should be determined by the number of electors or by the number of people who live in an electorate.  Senator Carrick  said that it should be determined by the number of electors and that those migrant groups- the ethnic minorities which tend to be heavily concentrated in Sydney and Melbourne- should not be counted for purposes of determining electoral boundaries because they are not naturalised citizens and do not have a vote. 
The interesting point here is that  Senator Carrick  is either rejecting out of hand the rationale of 

 Senator Scott's argument, namely, that the effectiveness of representation should be the primary factor determining the size demographically of an electorate, or he is saying that the ethnic minorities, which tend to be concentrated in the inner city seats, and consist of people who are not yet naturalised Australians, are not entitled to any parliamentary representation by the members who represent those districts. 
He is saying one or the other. It is worth while to pursue a little further this question of difficulties of representing particular areas. In answer to  Senator Sheil  's interjection, yes, I have been to north Queensland. Members of the Country Party of course, are always saying how difficult it is to represent country seats. I wonder if Country Party members who sit in this and other Parliaments have ever thought about the difficulties of representing an inner city electorate, especially one which has a very significant ethnic minority. Perhaps they should talk- probably there are some Liberal Party members in the same position- to Labor Party or Liberal Party members who represent these areas. I was speaking to the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  2 days ago. He informed me that he was looking for a research assistant who was fluent in Greek and Italian because his electoral duties involve so many dealings with ethnic minorities and involve representations on behalf of people who belong to ethnic minorities that it was necessary for him to have an interpreter. 
Not to nearly the same degree. 
Yes, that is so in north Queensland. The farthest seat in north Queensland is not represented by the National Country Party anyway. It is represented by a Labor member who supports this Bill. 
It is a fact.  Senator Sheil  can reject it if he wishes. I suppose people within fairly wide parameters can believe what they choose to believe. The Opposition-  Senator Scott  in particular, I think- has stated that these proposals are unacceptable because they allow some electorates to have more people than others. This argument has been raised. There may be some justification for quibbling about whether a particular electorate should have 55 000 or 60 000 electors. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 

When the sitting was suspended for dinner I was dealing with the arguments which  Senator Carrick  had been putting and the way in which those arguments contradicted the other arguments put forward by Opposition senators, by Country Party senators, and by  Senator Scott  in particular.  Senator Scott  alleged- this is a questionable proposition- that it is difficult for country members who represent sparsely populated regions to provide an adequate service to their electors. Therefore, argues  Senator Scott  of the Country Party, they should have fewer electors to service. 
In clear rejection of that view  Senator Carrick  then proceeded to argue that it was quite wrong to count the number of people in an electorate as distinct from the number of electors. That, of course, is an argument which is irrelevant for the purposes of these Bills; nevertheless it was pursued by  Senator Carrick  at great length, presumably because he had nothing to say about these Bills which was worth saying. He pursued an argument which had nothing to do with these Bills. He said it was quite improper to count the number of people who lived in the electorate, notwithstanding the fact that many of those people who are not electors because they are not naturalised Australians have just as many problems as do Australians. In fact, they would have more problems than would most Australians and most country people because they belong to ethnic minorities. They have housing problems. They have an enormous language difficulty, to start with.  Senator Carrick  has just proposed that these ethnic minorities should be ignored by this Parliament. I think that these ethnic minorities, whether or not they happen to be Australian citizens, should realise the contempt with which they are regarded by  Senator Carrick  and presumably by his party. Let it be clearly established that the Liberal Party has stated in this Parliament, through its spokesman  Senator Carrick,  that these ethnic minorities have no rights and deserve no consideration from members of Parliament who represent the areas in which they reside. 
Yes, he probably does regard them as industrial cannon fodder. In the view of the Liberal Party these ethnic minorities are made up of some sort of sub-human species which are not to be granted the full rights of citizens or indeed any rights at all but are to be used, as my colleague  Senator Mulvihill  says, as industrial cannon fodder. The Opposition has quibbled about the fact that the number of electors on the mainland under these redistribution proposals varies between- I forget the precise figure-something like 55 000 and 64 000. The Opposition says that having 8000 or 9000 more electors in one particular electorate than in another is too much. Therefore in logic characteristic of it the Opposition says: 'We will reject entirely these redistribution proposals and we will retain the existing system '. The Opposition is saying, in effect: 'We think it is far more just to retain the existing system'. Under that system the electorate of Diamond Valley in Victoria and the electorate of McPherson in Queensland, for example, have more than 90 000 electors on the electoral roll while 5 seats held by the National Country Party have fewer than 50 000 electors. The Opposition quibbles about a variation from the quota which, at the most, is around 18 per cent. The Opposition says that that is unacceptable, that it would prefer a 100 per cent variation with some electortates twice the size of others. What nonsense. What casuistry. What hypocrisy. 

 Senator Scott put forward another hypothesis which is contradicted by the facts. It is one which is frequently put forward by the National Country Party. Propositions that are contradicted by the facts seem to have a fatal fascination for members of the Country Party.  Senator Scott  postulated a relationship between the degree of electoral malapportionment and the degree of decentralisation. He postulated the existence of some sort of demographic/electoral nexus. He appears to believe that if the votes of country people have more value than the votes of the city people then in some way, which he failed to explain, that would decentralise the population geographically. I cannot imagine why it would or why there should be any logical connection between those 2 things. 
However, the proposition can be tested by reference to the facts. It can be tested against the empirical evidence. We have only one Federal Government, although some people have recently come to the view that as well as the legitimate Federal Government there is a pretender or would be federal government in the Senate, or a second government in the Senate. The Federal Government is elected under a common Electoral Act, so there is no room for comparison. There is, however, room for comparison among the States. The degree to which voting power is malapportioned in the State parliaments does vary quite considerably. 1 am not sure whether this has been so ever since Federation, but ever since I can remember- that goes back at least 30 years; some of my Tasmanian colleagues may be able to be more precise and help me with this - the Parliament of Tasmania has been elected on a system which follows- 
I thank  Senator Wriedt.  Since 1912 the Tasmanian Parliament has been elected on a system which follows the federal boundaries, and the federal boundaries have never deviated more than 20 per cent; or at the time of the redistribution, the federal electoral boundaries did not deviate more than 20 per cent from the mean. So Tasmania has and has always had the least gerrymandered of all the State parliaments. On the other hand, the State of South Australia had, under  Senator Davidson's  old mentor,  Sir Thomas  Playford, the most notoriously gerrymandered parliament in Australia for a generation. The Lower House, the House of Assembly in South Australia, had an electoral distribution which was malapportioned to the same degree as is the Legislative Council of Western Australia now. In other words, the votes of those people who lived in the city of Adelaide were worth only 25 per cent of the votes of the people who lived in the rural areas. So we have the 2 extremes of the most gerrymandered State parliament in the country- that is, South Australia'sand the least gerrymandered parliament in the country, which is Tasmania 's. 
Let us look at the demographic effects of this electoral malapportionment or lack of it. In fact, we find that in the State of South Australia the primary city, the capital city of Adelaide, has a higher proportion of the total population resident within its boundaries than occurs in any other State in Australia. In Tasmania the primary city, the capital city of Hobart, has a smaller proportion of the Tasmanian population resident in Hobart than occurs in any other State in Australia. We find that absolutely in conflict with what the National Country Party postulates, absolutely in conflict with its theory, which is repudiated from both ends. From the empirical evidence the lesser the gerrymander the more dispersed is the population and the greater the gerrymander the more urban concentrated is the population. So I hope that we will not hear any more of that particular spurious argument from the National Country Party, although in the past the fact that its arguments were contradicted by the evidence did not deter it. 
Just in case I should be misunderstood I will explain that I am not suggesting that there is any nexus between the degree of electoral gerrymandering, or the lack of electoral gerrymandering, and the geographical dispersal of the population. Those two situations are totally unrelated. In fact the State of Queensland occupies an intermediate position where it has a gerrymandered electoral system and also a dispersed population, although, I emphasise, not as dispersed as the State of Tasmania. 

 Senator Webster and  Senator Davidson  seemed to be intent upon putting a case not against these redistribution Bills but against the Act to which they are pursuant. There is no doubt whatsoever that the arguments put forward by these 2 particularly unworthy senators were cases against the Commonwealth Electoral Act, a repudiation of the law of the land. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order! You have referred to senators in this place as unworthy senators. I ask you to withdraw that remark. 
I withdraw the word unworthy',  Mr Deputy President.  The argument put by those 2 senators was clearly a repudiation of the law of the land. It was an argument against the Commonwealth Electoral Act itself and not an argument against the electoral Bills. Then they had the audacity to stand up here with sanctimonious humbug and talk about fairness, decency, honour and so on. 
I will touch on just one of the arguments raised by  Senator Webster  in a statement which was not correct.  Senator Webster  stated that these propositions were rejected by the referendums of May 1 974. The propositions posed by question 3 at those referendums was not of course this proposition. It was a proposition that electorates in the parliaments throughout Australia, both State and Federal, should be of equal size demographically and that people and not electors should be counted. That is a proposition very far removed and quite distinctly different from the one that is before the Senate today. It is true that people did vote against the proposition. But people cast their votes in a number of confusing circumstances. The people's evaluation of this proposal, I must add, was not assisted by the official 'No' case circulated by the Electoral Office and authorised I understand by members of the Opposition who opposed the determination of electoral boundaries on the basis of population instead of electors and then said: 'Equal numbers of electors which is what we have now'. That was a premeditated total and deliberate lie circulated by the Electoral Office because it was obliged to do so at the instigation of the Opposition. 
In summary, we have had the argument about the quality of representation. This is an argument that cuts both ways, both in the rural scene and in the urban areas. I think it is an incontestable proposition that the quality of representation which many rural electors have is pretty bad, especially those who are represented by members of the National Country Party. Most of the Opposition's arguments, or most of the things which were said, were totally irrelevant to the Bills before us. They concerned other electoral matters or matters which had nothing to do with elections or electoral laws at all. I can only assume that the reason they adopted this course was that they had no valid arguments to put against the Bills we are now considering. Members of the Opposition dealt with the past sins of Labor Governments and the past sins of other governments in an attempt to justify their continuing sins today. Of course, when we strip away all this humbug and all this deception the real reason the Opposition is opposing these Bills is because they are fair. Malcolm Mackerras forecast at the time the redistribution proposals were released that the proposals would be opposed because they are fair. They are opposed because the Liberal Party once again has caved in to the blackmail of the National Country Party. Let there be no more cant and humbug and I hope even no more discussion about this matter. The Opposition has made up its mind. The National Country Party has once again dictated to the Liberal Party its attitude on electoral reform to the everlasting shame and disgrace of the Liberal Party. 
Has the Leader of the Government seen the 10 September issue of the highly reputable  Primary Industry Newsletter  in which the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party promised that a coalition government would provide a number of very expensive agricultural and other subsidies? Can the Minister say what these promises would cost? Were they accounted for in the shadow Budget and, if not, were  Mr Sinclair's  extra alternative budgetary promises an aberration or is it normal for Opposition shadow Ministers to peddle a different set of lies to each vested interest group? 
When I rose to speak on this Bill last Wednesday evening I stated that I had not intended to enter into the debate but did so because of the scurrilous attack which  Senator Carrick  launched on 1 October upon the Government and the officials of the Department of the Treasury who had prepared the Budget figures. In the short time that I have been here I, like all other honourable senators, have suffered many harangues by  Senator Carrick. Senator Carrick  seems to regard himself as sort of orator whereas he has much more in common with a third-rate demagogue. He possesses many of the superficial attributes but little of the charisma of Adolf Schickelgruber. But the scurrilous allegations and innuendoes which were contained in his speech in the Senate on 1 October set a new low, even for  Senator Carrick.  They were concocted from false assumptions and faulty reasoning, compounded by arithmetic errors and propped up at the fringes by outright untruths. That sort of address is, of course, standard fare for many of the political primitives who represent the National Country Party of Australia in this Parliament, especially on economic matters. But  Senator Carrick  who, I note according to the  Parliamentary Handbook,  has had some training in these matters, should and presumably does know better than to expound the nonsense and indeed the scurrilous nonsense that he was propounding on 1 October. 
Thoroughly reprehensible. 
Tinged with undertones of untruth and the dredging up of dirt. 
Whose leader? Apparently Opposition senators express interest in the subject of truth. If they are particularly concerned with the subject of truth and whether people, particularly political leaders, speak the truth I remind them of some statements made by their present leader on 8 February this year when he said: 'Bill Snedden has my full support. I support Bill Snedden. There is no contest'. I also remind Opposition senators of some statements made by  Senator McLaren  in the adjournment debate last Wednesday evening or the Wednesday evening before on the subject of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and how much store can be placed on his word.  Senator McLaren  revealed that the present Leader of the Opposition at a time when he subsequently claimed, he had absolutely no knowledge of the plot that was afoot within the Liberal Party to unseat its then Leader,  Mr Snedden,  was discussing this matter, this plot, this conspiracy with some of his trusty lieutenants in the dining room. I think that was in November of last year. If I was a member of this Opposition and I had voted - 
The subject matter was introduced by your colleague. If I were an Opposition senator and I had either voted for the present Leader of the Opposition or was supporting the present Leader of the Opposition, I would be very wary of delving too deeply into the subject of whether the publiclygiven assurances of certain leading politicians can be accepted at their face value. The reason why  Senator Carrick  launched this scurrilous attack on 1 October is, of course, transparently clear. It was part of a continuing campaign being conducted by the Opposition and master-minded by the present Leader of the Opposition to scratch around with their fingernails in an attempt to find what he calls reprehensible circumstances' to justify rejecting the Appropriation Bills and plunging this country into a constitutional crisis. The Opposition has attempted to do this on issue after issue, perhaps the most pathetic attempt being the attempt early in September to resurrect a 5 weekold letter from the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the substance of which had been published 5 weeks before. That was pathetic. 
Then there was the completely unsuccessful attempt to make a major issue of the ACTU-Solo oil transaction, particularly by the Leader of the National Country Party  ((Mr Anthony).  Indeed, even after a royal commission has found that the Government had no knowledge that this deal was being made, the Leader of the National Country Party persists with his reprehensible attitude and attempts to smear the royal commissioner and cast doubts upon his findings. Of course,  Senator Greenwood  has attempted to defame and smear no fewer than 4 judges of the High Court who brought down a ruling which is politically inconvenient to  Senator Greenwood  and his Party. 
The central feature of  Senator Carrick  's attempt to discourage the Budget estimates was an allegation that absolutely no allowance had been made for the likely increases in salaries during the financial year. He postulated firstly: 
. salaries shown throughout the Budget Estimates are calculated on March 1975 levels, before the national wage case and making no allowance whatsoever for the 23 per cent salary rises foreshadowed in the Budget Speech . . . 
The figure foreshadowed in the Budget Speech incidentally was 22 per cent and not 23 per cent as  Senator Carrick  stated. That is a minor error. It is not true that no allowance was made for salary increases nor is it true that they were calculated simply on March 1975 salary levels. For further enlightenment on that subject I refer  Senator Carrick,  or anyone else who is interested, to the  Hansard  record of Senate Estimates Committee A of 9 October, pages 544 and 545. I refer honourable senators particularly to the bottom of column 1 of page 545. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order! My understanding is that  Senator Walsh  is quoting from  Hansard.  I. believe he has quoted from it accurately. I do not uphold the point of order. 
You have overruled the point of order, have you,  Mr Deputy  President? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Yes. 
I might just explain that I was quoting from page 878 of the Senate Hansard of 1 October. I correctly quoted what  Senator Carrick  said. If  Senator Carrick  was in fact quoting from Estimates Committee D  Hansard,  he did not make that clear. He said: 
My third question is: Is it a fact, as evidenced in answers provided to Estimates Committee D on 1 1 September- 
I quoted from there on. If he was quoting from the  Hansard  of Estimates Committee D, he certainly did not say so. I return to the subject matter.  Senator Carrick  then postulated that the Government's wages bill would increase by 23 per cent. He then took a very substantial broad jump and implied- I stress that he implied; he did not state explicitly- that an inflation factor at the rate of 23 per cent would have to be applied to all Government expenditure. 
I deal now with his reasoning. I disregard the small error in the percentage he quoted and the fact that he disregarded or was unaware of the updating by the Treasury of salary estimates as a result of the national wage case in May. That is shown in the Estimates Committee A  Hansard.  In fact, the estimates which were finally used were based on wage levels prevailing at the end of June. The much more significant conceptual error which  Senator Carrick  made was his assumption that if wages increased by 20 per cent during the year and the Estimates had been based on the level of wages prevailing at the end of June, the Government's wages bill would increase by 20 per cent over the entire year. It ought to be apparent to anyone who stops to think for a moment about the matter- they would know that wage increases are usually at a uniform rate througout the year- that the increase will not be the increase from year's end to year's end but about half that because it will be averaged throughout the year. So  Senator Carrick  took a factor that was based on a couple of small false assumptions- it was twice as high as it ought to have been- and applied it to all Government expenditure instead of applying it only to the item to which it was applicable, namely wages and salaries, which comprises about 1 1 per cent of total Government Budget expenditure. By this little exercise, either in bad arithmetic or trickery, he was able to come up with a certain conclusion. He said: 
We need to know whether the deficit is to remain at $2, 798m, or whether it is on its way to doubling and, if so, creating the absolute disaster that the Government says will happen if the Budget deficit gets to the order of $4,000m or $5, 000m. 
A little later, with a bit more sleight of hand, he said: 
Yet, here is  Mr Crean  saying that we are well on our way to doubling the deficit which the Government believes is disastrous. 
He apparently implied that the possible or likely final size of the deficit would be about $8,000m or $ 10,000m. I thought that in that speech  Senator Carrick  had gone about as far as he would dare go in the area of misrepresentation. I was subsequently informed that he went further, outside this Parliament, when he rang the editor of the Melbourne  Age  and put before the editor of that newspaper a proposition that went like this: The Budget documents are shonky. The deficit has been grossly underestimated. 

 - Senator Carrick. It is floating around the Press Gallery. It has been floating around there for a week. He rang the editor of the Melbourne  Age  and put before him the proposition that the Budget documents were shonky; in fact the deficit would be at least $5,000m; there were certain public servants who were so enamoured of this Labor Government that they would stop at nothing, including the falsification of the estimates of Government expenditure, to try to keep it in power. 
Demented. Needless to say, the editor of the Melbourne  Age  treated  Senator Carrick  's accusations with the contempt that they deserve. In addition to the gross error in the initial inflator which  Senator Carrick  usedusing an inflator about twice as high as it should have been and applying it to a principal nearly ten times as high as it should have been- he recognised that an allowance of $I50m was specifically provided for salary increases during the year. The item can be found on page 27 of Budget Paper No. 4. He did not say that there were two other items not specifically allocated to a function in the Budget Papers which could be used to cover salary increases or any other expenditure. I refer to the 2 Advances to the Treasurer amounting in total to $270m. He completely ignored the fact that Government cash transfer payments, principally payments to the States and payments for benefits to persons, mainly social welfare benefits payments, amount in total to $ 14,000m, which is more than twothirds of government expenditure. They are not susceptible to increases in wages or in the price of materials. 
It has become apparent since  Senator Carrick  launched this tirade that the Budget deficit could be somewhat greater than the $2,800m which the Treasurer's estimates had shown. However, the reason for this increase is not that expenditure has been under-estimated, as  Senator Carrick  alleged, but that revenue may have been over-estimated. The reason why revenue may have been over-estimated is quite simple. Wages appear to be accelerating at a lower rate than the Treasurer and /or the Treasury had anticipated. 
Therefore, Government revenue via taxation has declined accordingly and more than proportionally, as always happens, when personal income is lower than anticipated. So the deficit could be higher, but it will be for a reason opposite to that which  Senator Carrick  postulated. If the Opposition wants to make a federal case out of that issue, I wonder on what ground it would base its objection. Is the Opposition saying that it is deplorable or reprehensible that wages are not increasing at a faster rate than some pessimistic forecasts had anticipated? If that is the case, what is the Opposition's remedy? Does the Opposition suggest that the Government should embark on a policy of increasing wages and, thereby, the consumer price index at a higher rate? If the Opposition wishes to criticise the Government on this ground it is under a considerable obligation to show from which source it would find the extra revenue. 
I emphasise that the Leader of the Opposition, on behalf of the Opposition, has already endorsed the size of the Budget deficit. He has put his personal imprimatur on the deficit and has committed his Party to it as a deficit which is appropriate in the current circumstances. He has criticised some items on both the revenue and expenditure sides, but he has stated that the deficit is appropriate. If Opposition senators are as worried as they claim to be about the prospect of the deficit rising to a higher level, I assume that they will strenuously oppose all proposals to increase Government expenditure or to spend money in areas which are not explicitly provided in the Budget estimates. If that is so, I anticipate that the Opposition will oppose the adoption of the Industries Assistance Commission report on the beef industry, for example, because the adoption of that report in full would entail a reduction on the revenue side and an increase on the expenditure side amounting in aggregate to $60m to $70m for the current year. If the Opposition is going to continue to press the argument that under no circumstances must the deficit be allowed to increase through increased expenditure, it must oppose that IAC report and if it is going to oppose the IAC report I hope that the National Country Party members of the Opposition will go out among their electors and tell them that the National Country Party is opposed to that IAC report. Alternatively, the Opposition can desist from this line which it has been following for the last 3 weeks, or it can come up with a proposal which will increase government revenue to the extent necessary to offset expenditure under the IAC report. 
I return to what  Senator Carrick  said. He referredin fact, he was quoting an answer from the Government- to the forecast increase of about 20 per cent in the money supply, that is M3, for the year ended June 1 976. He went on to say: 
If indeed what I have said is taking place, then the rate of growth of money supply will be enormous. 
Later he continued: 
. as I would like to demonstrate, we will be increasing the money supply disastrously. 
One must conclude from that statement that  Senator Carrick  regards an increase of the order of 20 per cent in the money supply as being dis.astrous, which begs the question: Where was  Senator Carrick  when the previous Government, of which he was a back bench supporter, took the decisions which led to the money supply increasing at an annual rate of 34 per cent in the last quarter of 1973? Where was  Senator Carrick  when the previous Government took that thoroughly reprehensible decision against the advice of the Treasury, of the Reserve Bank and of anyone who had more than a passing interest in the subject, and refused to revalue the Australian dollar in December 1971? If  Senator Carrick  wishes to suggest that an increase of the magnitude of 20 per cent in the money supply is disastrous, it is fair to ask him where he was in 1972 when the Government of which he was a supporter allowed the money supply to increase at an annual rate of 34 per cent- I might add, in economic circumstances somewhat different from those which prevail now and in circumstances which made it even more reprehensible to take that decision? 

 Senator Carrick said that another way of financing the deficit would be to indulge on a large scale in treasury bill financing. That also, he stated correctly, was likely to be inflationary. Now, the third way of financing the deficit is by loans raised domestically. Whilst there may be some dispute about this at the fringes between the professionals in this area, it is generally agreed that that method of financing a budget deficit is not inflationary, and in the August loan the Government raised some $68 lm in this way.  Senator Carrick  referred to this fact and then stated: 
Of those loans 50 per cent or more was subscribed by the banks. Everybody knows that the banks, facing a call up through statutory reserve deposits, would prefer to go into the bond market than simply have their money called up at minimal interest rates. 
There is no objection to that statement; it seems to make sense. Then some 2 paragraphs further on in his speech  Senator Carrick  stated: 
What the Government is getting is subscriptions forced from the banking institutions . . . 
He postulated another conspiracy theory. He postulated that the Government was holding the weapon of an increase in the statutory reserve deposits over the banks and saying in effect: 'Unless you subscribe to our loan we will increase your statutory reserve deposits'. If there was any validity in  Senator Carrick  's conspiracy theory I wonder why a day or two after he made that statement the Government in fact allowed the statutory reserve deposits to increase? The  National Times  of the weekend before last referred to this and drew the fairly obvious conclusion that by increasing the statutory reserve deposits the Government was likely to make it somewhat more difficult to attract money from the banking system into government loans. The  National Times  quite explicitly made the point that it was obvious that this decision was being taken by the Reserve Bank, by the monetary authorities, on purely technical economic grounds without reference to or consideration of the political considerations. So another of  Senator Carrick  's conspiracy theories or monstrous allegations and innuendoes bites the dust. 
It is possible that the Government will use all of these 3 means of financing the deficit in varying amounts, and it is not possible at this stage- a point which the Treasurer has attempted to put across to the economic primitives in the Oppositionto make any sort of accurate forecast as to how the deficit will be funded because that entails making forecasts about the level of liquidity and the response to public loan raisings up to 8 months hence, and that just cannot be forecast with any accuracy. The primary reason why the banking system has subscribed very heavily to government 10:ns is of course that the banks are holding a great deal of money. Oddly enough, in a period of fairly high inflation the public's propensity to hold money seems to be at least holding or perhaps even increasing. As a result of this the money supply, the Ml, which was $7.6 billion in December of last year had increased by August to $8.8 billion. The money supply, which is defined as M3, in the same period has increased from $26.5 billion to $30.5 billion. It is obvious that the public is putting more money in the banks. While that happens and while the banks continue to put that money into government loans, it does not make any real difference, so far as its effect on the financing of the deficit, the level of the money supply or inflation is concerned, whether that money comes from the public into government loans through the banking system or whether it comes directly into government loans. One of the inaccurate statements which  Senator Carrick  used to support his shonky argument is a statement which is frequently made by members of the Opposition and picked up by the more uncritical sections of the Press, especially the rural Press concerned reinflation. Referring to higher interest rates,  Senator Carrick  stated: 
This will trigger hyperinflation not seen in the history of Australia before- and this Government already holds the record. 
Since that statement is so frequently made by members of the Opposition I think that the record should be put right. The highest rate of inflation ever recorded in Australia on an annual basis was for the year ended December 1951. The rate was 25.1 per cent. The highest annual rate recorded in recent times is 17.9 per cent recorded in March 1975. Just to fill in the record completely, a Liberal-Country Party Government was in power in December 1971 and had been for 2 years when we had record inflation of 25. 1 per cent over the preceding year. If we were to look at it on a quarterly basis, we would find that in the June and December quarters of 1 95 1 , the inflation rate- I am using the term 'inflation rate' as synonymous with the consumer price index or series C index of 1 95 1 -was 6.9 per cent. The highest quarterly rate of inflation recorded recently was 5.1 per cent in September of 1974. But I dare say that neither the facts, the rules of arithmetic, nor the parliamentary conventions which have governed Australia or which have regulated the political system in Australia for the last 70 years will deter the Opposition from circulating untrue statements, from attempting to establish what they call the reprehensible grounds which they are searching desperately to find to plunge this country into a constitutional crisis. The depths to which  Mr Anthony, Mr Fraser  and  Mr Lynch  have sunk over the ACTUSolo transactions, over the innocuous letter from the Treasurer to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in August this year and the depths to which they have sunk in attempting to use those issues and pretend that they provide reprehensible circumstances, and the depths to which  Senator Carrick  sank when he delivered this scurrilous outburst in the Senate on 1 October and above all, the depths to which he descended when he rang the Editor of the Melbourne  Age,  establish that apparently nothing is too reprehensible for members of the Opposition in this Parliament to contemplate if it helps them to secure their political objectives. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Agriculture. I ask: Has he seen today's Melbourne  Age  which states that on becoming Minister for Minerals and Energy the Minister said that he was pleased to be rid of farmers? Similar reports appeared in at least 2 other newspapers. Did the Minister make the remark reported by the  Age  and by a couple of other newspapers? If so, why? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Did he hear  Senator Withers  claim yesterday ' We'that is, the Opposition- 'are not cutting off the flow of money to the people'? Does he know that  Mr Anthony  subsequently referred to yesterday's action by the Opposition as a justifiable action of refusing the Government funds? Does this mean that  Senator Withers  lied to the Parliament yesterday? If so, should he resign his position as Leader of the Opposition in the Senate? 
I wish to speak to the point of order. I made no such allegation. I merely asked the Leader of the Government whether, in view of the facts as I stated them,  Senator Withers  lied to the Parliament yesterday. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has he seen a League of Rights pamphlet stating that Russian housewives are buying Australian beef at 9c lb and that the Government has subsidised Union of Soviet Socialist Republics consumers to the extent of $6m? Is there any- truth in these allegations? 
It is, I believe, a fair measure of the desperation of the Opposition in this chamber this afternoon that  Senator Rae  should hang his case on a statement issued in the name of the former Liberal Party Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies. Allegedly the statement was written or dictated yesterday by  Sir Robert  Menzies himself. There is perhaps some area of doubt as to whether it was dictated spontaneously or under instruction. It is interesting that the Opposition should hang its case on the statement issued by a man who retired from politics 10 years ago and whose linkage goes directly back to the last century when the same man is on record at the height of his intellectual powers in 1932 and under somewhat more objective circumstances as stating: 
Under the Australian system of universal suffrage and triennial parliaments, with a legally recognised and responsible Cabinet, it must, in my opinion, follow that so long as a Premier - 
Of course the same goes for a Prime Minister-  commands a majority in the lower House - 
I emphasise 'lower House'-  and so long as he is guilty of no illegal conduct which would evoke the exercise of the Royal Prerogative, he must be regarded as the competent and continuing adviser of the representative of the Crown. For a newspaper to urge a dissolution because in its opinion the government has lost the confidence of the electorate is a mere impertinence. 

 Sir Robert Menzies, 43 years ago when he was at the height of his intellectual powers, continued: 
The constitutional authority of a Premier rests almost entirely upon his success at a general election, and upon his continued authority in the popularly elected House, and not upon irresponsible speculations as to whether he would have lost his majority if the Constitution had provided for annual and not triennial elections. 
That was a quotation from the Game papers, from a letter written by  Sir Robert  Menzies on 3 November 1932 when he was at the height of his intellectual powers. It is not a statement which was solicited or coerced from him yesterday, as he was dragged out of the cobwebs to try to give some degree of respectability to this contemptible action which the Opposition contemplates taking.  Senator Hall,  when he began to speak about half an hour ago, asked how it was that this had happened again to the Liberal Party, why it was that the Liberal Party seemed to have a recurrent capacity to drift into disaster when it seemed to be facing a bright electoral future- at least in the short term. I should have thought that the answer to that question was patently obvious. The Liberal Party has drifted into disaster on this occasion for precisely the same reason as it drifted into disaster in April 1974- because the Leader of the Liberal Party then and the Leader of the Liberal Party now were not sufficiently astute to resist the urgings of the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  to force a premature election. 
Let me put it this way: The Leader of the National Country Party- who of course above all fears a just redistribution which would decimate his political power base- in common with  Senator Withers  and one or two others, has never accepted the verdict of the people at either the 1972 or 1974 elections. Consequently, from the point of view of the Leader of the National Country Party it seems an attractive proposition that at any time when it appears that the Opposition may be able to seize power it should force an election. If the Opposition wins he is  Deputy  Prime Minister. If it loses the Leader of the Liberal Party gets the blame. Ultimately he gets rolled by his own Party, as the former Leader of the Liberal Party was rolled by his own Party in March of this year after his failure to attain power following his acceptance of  Mr Anthony's  self-interested advice. 
I am surprised that the present Leader of the Opposition, with that horrible experience before his eyes, has fallen for the same trick. This power-hungry Richmond bushranger has again tricked or seduced the Liberal Party into trying to force a premature election in order to make him  Deputy  Prime Minister, knowing full well that if it fails the blame, the stigma will accrue not to him but to the Leader of the majority Party in the coalition, the Liberal Party. I have no doubt that as a result of the failure of this second premature grab for power the present Leader of the Liberal Party will be destroyed as his predecessor was destroyed, and the prime destroyer in both cases will have been the Leader of the National Country Party. I am sure there are many members of the Liberal Party on the Opposition benches who are fully aware of those realities. 
If, for the moment, we make the preposterous assumption that the argument which has been presented by the Opposition in this chamber this afternoon is sound and valid, it comes out to be something near a watertight case for the rejection of the Appropriation Bills at the second reading stage. The Opposition though is not proposing to reject the Bills at the second reading stage. It has adopted another stalling device. It will not allow these Bills to proceed to a second reading debate or to a second reading vote. The Opposition adopts the same stalling device as it adopted last week, that these Bills not be further proceeded with. If honourable senators opposite are so convinced that they have a watertight esse justifying the rejection of the Appropriation Bills, why do they not vote on the Bills? Why do they not let the second reading debate proceed? I suggest that the answer is self-evident- they are fully aware that that would be, to borrow a word, a most 'reprehensible' action. Opposition senators, particularly elderly Opposition senators who have some sense of history, do not want it to be indelibly recorded in  Hansard  that they personally voted to reject Appropriation Bills for the first time in 75 years of Federation, thereby jeopardising or endangering the survival of constitutional government. Their actions belie their brave and pretentious words. The  National Times  of 6 October carried this statement: 
The Opposition looks more like a shonky insurance company than an alternative government. As soon as you make it plain you find the small print cancels the cover. 
The more one listens to the debate in the chamber this afternoon and to the things which are said outside the chamber by members of the Opposition, the more obvious it becomes that the judgment of the  National Times  is correct. Firstly,  Senator Withers'  amendment contains a lie which was exposed in this House by myself last week and which has been exposed by other people on numerous occasions. Paragraph (2) (c) of the amendment suggests, in part, that the nation has inflation not experienced for 40 years. Although last week I corrected that lie which has been stated by assorted spokesmen for the Opposition, I will correct it yet again. I have in my hands figures relating to the consumer price index for the early 1950s and the early 1970s. If we look at the percentage changes in the consumer price index from the December quarter of 1949- which I interpolate was immediately after the election of the MenziesFadden Liberal-Country Party Governmentand trace them through to the end of June 1952- the same period as the period for which the present Government has been in office, from December of one year to June  2y2  years later- we find that the total increase in the consumer price index in that period under a Liberal-Country Party government was 42.8 per cent. The figure for the comparable period from the beginning of 1972 is 36.3 per cent. If we take from the figures the highest 12-monthly or annual rate of inflation recorded in any period, we find that for the year ended December 1951 the annual increase in the consumer price index was 23.1 per cent, and the highest increase in recent times, since the election of the Whitlam Government, was 16.6 per cent for the year ended March 1975. 
We find that on a quarterly basis the highest figure ever recorded was 6.9 per cent in December 1951 and the highest figure recently recorded was 5.1 per cent. So whether we like to measure the increase from the time that this Government attained power on an annual basis or on a quarterly basis, the facts show that this claim which is made so constantly by members of the Opposition and which was repeated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  in the motion that he moved is simply untrue. I suggest that to men of honour that should be sufficient reason for either voting against this motion which states a demonstrable untruth or moving for its further amendment. 

 Senator Rae attempted to present this controversy in terms of the States rights argument. I must confess that I cannot follow the logic of  Senator Rae's  position. I do not know what this has to do with States rights when we have a vote- I exclude  Senator Bunton  and  Senator Hall  from this because they are Independents- in which the parties are divided on rigid party lines and indeed on which there is ample reason to believe that several members of the Opposition were bludgeoned into submitting themselves to party discipline and vote to defer these Bills against their personal better judgment. 

 - Senator Hall already has quoted from the Adelaide  Advertiser  which has finally spelt out the reality that of course there is no free vote and there never has been. Since  Senator Rae  or someone else has mentioned the constitutional conventions I suggest that he look at the record of the constitutional conventions of the 1890s and see where Deakin realised right from the beginning- in fact from before the beginning- that the Senate would operate as a party House and not as a States House. 
-On how they would vote? I doubt it very much. 
If I may respond to the interjection,  Mr President,  I think it possibly could be a matter that the people who conceive legislation in the Opposition ranks could well consider the possibility of making it mandatory for members of the Opposition to have secret votes in their party meetings since they seem to think it is a good idea in union elections. They have the view that in labor unions a few standover men force the rank and file to do things that they do not want to do. This seems to me to be a fairly succinct description of what happened in the Liberal Party last week when a particular standover man stood over several Liberal senators who knew that what they were doing was wrong and who did not want to do it. 
If  Senator Missen  wishes to dispute his leader's assertion that he makes these decisions perhaps he could join in the debate afterwards and do so. But the really ludicrous aspect of  Senator Rae's  pathetic attempt to present this in terms of a States rights dispute or a States rights argument is that  Senator Rae  has aligned himself with a course of action the purpose of which is to force a premature election and, the Opposition hopes, bring in a Fraser Government- a Fraser Government which recently announced a new federalism policy. I shall not go into this in any great detail as the matter is so vague and so contradictory that no one could really be very definitive about precisely what it means; but insofar as it has any meaning at all, what the Opposition's new federalism- or Fraser 's new federalism- sets out to do is to reduce the redistributive role of the national government and to make State governments, to some degree anyway, fiscally responsible. To whatever degree that objective is attained there is no doubt that it will disadvantage the less wealthy and less populous States. 
It is so appropriate that  Senator Rae  should raise this issue. We find that the tax paid by Tasmania per capita for the 1972-73 taxation year- that is the most recent figure availablewas $234. For Victoria the tax paid per capita was $302. If we look at the distribution of federal revenue on a per capita basis we find that the State of Tasmania receives $240 per capita more than the national average. The State of Western Australia, by the way, receives $107 more than the per capita average, so this argument is particularly pertinent to my State as well as to  Senator Rae's  State.  Senator Rae  would have us believe that as a representative of the State of Tasmania he is standing up in this Senate in an attempt to introduce a State-Federal financing policy- which will be, to the degree it is implemented, disastrous for the State of Tasmania. I trust that the people of Tasmania are or will shortly be fully aware of what this man who claims to speak for them has done in this Senate. 
Of course  Senator Rae's  private opinions are somewhat different. I recall- and I accept- that  Senator Rae  was being basically a very loyal Tasmanian and a fairly astute politician. But  Senator Rae  was the person who led that rearguard fight in Tasmania against the political execution of the former leader of the Liberal Party.  Senator Rae  showed just how astute he was in doing that. He apparently showed a great deal of perspicacity, because he had some idea just what a disaster a Fraser Liberal Government would be for the State of Tasmania. Indeed, apart from leading this rearguard action in his own State to try to prevent the political assassination of the former Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Rae  circulated some thousands of telegrams- at great expense to the taxpayer too, I daresay- to prominent Liberals all over Australia attempting to forestall this conspiracy against the then Leader of the Liberal Party. So, on intellectual grounds I excuse  Senator Rae  because he really knows better than to say the things he said this afternoon; on ethical grounds, of course, it is another matter. 

 Senator Carrick had his Senate numbers confused. I shall not go into this in any great depth, but just to set the record straight for the benefit of  Senator Carrick  and the people who read  Hansard,  when the 1974 Senate election was held 29 Labor senators were elected, one Independent, one Liberal Movement-  Senator Hall-  28 members of the Liberal and Country Parties and one member ofthe National AllianceSenator Drake-Brockman from Western Australia. Subsequent to their election, and as a breach of faith with the people who had elected them,  Senator Drake-Brockman  joined the Country Party, subsequently called the National Country Party, and  Senator Townley  joined the Liberal Party, which gives the Opposition its current number of 30. But 28 were elected as Liberal or Country Party senators. The other two have joined them since, I would suggest in breach of their moral contract with the electors who put them into the Senate. 

 Senator Guilfoyle postulated that the Opposition's current complaints about obtaining documents or files- their current request that the files of the Department of Minerals and Energy be tipped out on the Clerk's table in the Senatearose from a position analogous to the VIP scandal of 1967.  Senator Guilfoyle  conveniently has overlooked that throughout 1966 and early 1967 the responsible Liberal Ministers, and indeed the then Prime Minister, consistently denied that those VIP aircraft records existed. It was only because the then  Senator Gorton  tabled those records that the public ever found out the truth. I might add that when the then Minister for Air,  Mr Howson,  was finally called upon to account for his lies,  Mr Howson  offered his resignation to the House of Representatives on 2 November 1 967, I think it was, because he had misled the House of Representatives. If one wants to use the euphemism one would say that he misled the House of Representatives; if one wants the blunt truth, one would say that he had lied to the House of Representatives. The Liberal Prime Minister of the day refused to accept his resignation. 
That, I suggest, is the essential difference between the moral, the ethical standards of this party and the party which it replaced in government. Prime Ministers of the Liberal Party have lied to the House of Representatives but they did not consider that that was justification for them to resign. They did not consider that to be grounds for their resignation, let alone the resignation of the entire government. The Liberal Party today was so desperate that it dragged  Sir Robert  Menzies out from the cobwebs. I understand that the Liberal Party was trying to get him to appear on television but it could not obtain any invisible props to prop him up. It is perhaps appropriate to read this passage from page 1060 of Hansard of 29 April 1965. In a ministerial statement the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, said: 
The Australian Government is now in receipt of a request from the Government of South Vietnam for further military assistance. We have decided- and this has been after close consultation with the Government of the United States- to provide an infantry battalion for service in South Vietnam. 
That statement was made by the then Liberal Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, who is the author of the article which appeared in today's Melbourne  Age, Sydney Morning Herald, West Australian,  and I do not know how many other newspapers. That statement was subsequently shown to have been a lie, both by the publication of the Pentagon Papers and by the publication last year of the foreign affairs paper concerning Australia's initial involvement in Vietnam. 
Indeed, I believe it was finally acknowledged by a subsequent Liberal Prime Minister in the House of Representatives that no such request was ever received. I think it emphasises yet again the Opposition 's desperation that it has sought to provide some respectability for its actions by calling for support upon a former Prime Minister whom the public record shows lied himself to the House of Representatives. A more reprehensible issue upon which to lie to the House of Representatives would be impossible to find. 

 Mr Fraser pretends to have some sympathy for those people- he referred particularly to the elderly people- whom he says have been hurt by this Government. I do not know how they have been hurt, unless it is because they have got a higher pension in real terms than they have ever had before. He claims that they have been hurt and that they did not have time to recover from it. I think the appropriate response to that remark is this: Does  Sir Robert  Menzies or any member of the Opposition suggest that we can resurrect those 400-odd Australians who were killed in Vietnam or the countless numbers of Vietnamese who were killed pursuant to the dispatch of those Australians to Vietnam, a dispatch which was justified on the basis of a lie to the House of Representatives by a Liberal Prime Minister? 
If one were to examine the credentials of those members of the Opposition- I was going to use the word 'conservatives' but I do not dignify them by the use of that word; 'protofascists' would be a more appropriate term- who purport to be concerned about truth and honesty, one might also examine the statement made by  Sir Robert  Menzies in the House of Representatives in April 1954 when he said he had never heard of one Vladimir Petrov until he had discussed him with a member of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation on the previous Sunday. Brigadier Spry, the head of ASIO, subsequently stated that he had discussed the matter with  Sir Robert  Menzies in February, 2 months previously. I do not know whether anyone was lying or whether someone had a lapse of memory, but the 2 stories are mutually exclusive; they both cannot be the truth. Perhaps since Opposition senators are so keen on having files tipped out on the Clerk's table in the Senate they would like to move that the Petrov files be tipped out on the Clerk's table in the Senate; perhaps they would like to move that the Vietnam files be tipped out on the Clerk's table in the Senate. Indeed, I challenge any of them to so move. 
 Precisely. As my colleague,  Senator Gietzelt,  interjects,  Mr Fraser  was invited to have them tabled and he refused. Without going into innuendoes, the sort of smear attack launched under parliamentary privilege this afternoon by  Senator Carrick  upon the Prime Minister when he did not have one scintilla of evidence- it was just something that had been fabricated by  Senator Carrick  's fertile but jaundiced imagination- without going into that sort of wild and unproven speculation, the public record shows that the present Leader of the Opposition on 8 February this year said: 
I support the leadership of Bill Snedden . . . Bill Snedden has my full support . . . There is no contest. 
That is the man who now presents himself as a man of honour, a man of truth, a man who above all insists upon a proper standard of conduct both inside and outside the Parliament, a man who has the audacity to present himself as an alternative Prime Minister. My time has almost expired. 
I dare say it is fortunate for Opposition senators. It is unfortunate for them that these facts are again being put on the public record. On this issue of the passage of the Appropriation Bills, there are in this Parliament 3 people who are outside the rigid discipline of parties. I suggest,  Mr Acting Deputy President  and fellow senators, that it is highly significant that all of those 3 people who are outside the rigid discipline of party politics have strongly opposed the action which the Opposition has taken on these measures. I ask the Senate to reject the amendment moved by  Senator Withers  because it is fundamentally a subterfuge designed to avoid coming to grips with the issue involved, which is the debating of the Appropriation Bills. Opposition senators do not want to go on the record as having rejected the Appropriation Bills and they want to attain their shonky objectives by using this subterfuge. I ask the Senate to reject the amendment also because it contains a statement which simply is not true, and that is the statement that we have not experienced for 40 years inflation as high as we have now. 
Has the PostmasterGeneral seen an editorial in yesterday's  West Australian  which alleges that increases in postal and telephone charges bear more heavily on country residents? Is the allegation correct or does the record show that postal and telephone expenditure per capita in the cities is higher than in the country, thereby showing that the  West Australian  is maintaining its normal standard of editorial bigotry and error? 
-I have listened in vain to the 2 honourable senators from the Opposition who have spoken on the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation Bill for some reasonable justification for the attitude the Opposition is taking to the Bill.  Senator Durack,  from his comments, appears not to have read the Bill. I will expand on that later. Also, if his comments are to be taken at their face value, he does not have the slightest comprehension of the effects of currency revaluations, tariff imposts and charges of that nature on external trade.  Senator Scott,  in his characteristic sanctimonious style, emitted the usual National Country Party bleats on the mining junta and his usual catalogue of errors with respect to agriculture. Given what we have heard from the speakers on the other side of the Senate as a substitute for a case in opposition, I can only assume that the honourable senators are opposing this legislation because directions have been handed down to the Opposition by the Chamber of Commerce that this Bill is to be killed. The faceless men of the Liberal Party from outside this Parliament have obviously yet again dictated the Opposition's policy. 
Despite the euphoric account of the achievements of private traders with respect to the management or conduct of Australia's external trade, it is apparent to anyone who has delved into the area that all is not well. The euphoric accounts of the benevolent influence and the efficiency of private exporters and importers are difficult to reconcile with the facts from the real world. I shall cite a couple of examples. An Australian Meat Board delegation visited the Middle East countries from 24 May to 1 1 June, and I shall quote from a report submitted by  Mr O  'Toole, who was a member of that delegation, with respect to the export of Australian agricultural products to the Middle East. The members of the National Country Party should be particularly interested in this. The report states: 
From the remarks of local merchants it appears possible that disreputable Australian Exporters are exploiting the local importers lack of knowledge when specifying their actual requirements. In one instance an importer who ordered a significant amount of minced meat eventually received a delivery of minced meat that was 90 per cent fat, all perfectly legal, as the importer was not aware that specification of fat content is essential when ordering processed meat. 
Because the crafty Australian exporter pulled off a mini rip off, it is unfortunate that the Arab importer retains a poor view of the quality of Australian processed meat and has already gone elsewhere for future orders. 
Another importer has been purchasing processed hogget carcasses, here again he expressed grave doubts whether the carcasses were hogget, he claimed that they were fat older sheep. 
Likewise, if anyone had attended the hearings of the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade that have been held over the last nine or ten months under  Senator Coleman's  very competent chairmanship or chairpersonship he would be aware that it is extremely difficult for small businesses to export to markets such as Indonesia. Of course, as was explicitly stated in the second reading speech to this Bill, this is one of the purposes for which the Government has attempted to establish this Australian Overseas Trading Corporation. Apparently the Opposition will prevent the Government from establishing the Corporation. 

 Senator Durack in the first instalment of his very long speech on this subject on Tuesday evening, when referring to the membership of the Corporation, made this astonishing statement: 
I would have thought that if one were going to set up a trading corporation to compete in this very sophisticated and somewhat rugged area of enterprise and competition, the people engaged in it would certainly have to be very well versed in industry and commerce. Apparently, though, if one is a public servant or an accountant or a trade union secretary one may well be chosen to be a director of this corporation. 
It appears from that statement that  Senator Durack,  in his eagerness to do the bidding of the Chamber of Commerce, had neglected to read clause 1 6 (3) of the Bill, which states: 
A person shall not be appointed as a Director unless he appears to the Governor-General to be qualified for appointment by virtue of his knowledge of, or experience in, industry, commerce, public administration, finance or industrial matters. 
Although, according to the Premier of Queensland, all that is required by way of qualification or competence to be a member of this Senate is that one should be an avid reader of westerns and comics- although that qualification may be regarded by the Premier of Queensland as adequate for appointment to this Senate- I can assure  Senator Durack  that clause 16(3) of the Bill makes it quite explicit that people of the calibre of  Mr Field-  I am not sure what his current status is- will not be appointed to this Corporation. While on the subject of  Senator Field,  I heard recently- I am not sure whether this is correct, but it seemed to me to be quite conceivable- that the reason why  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  appointed  Mr Field  or  Senator Field  to the vacancy in the Senate- apart from his desire of course to taint the Senate as the Liberal member for Moreton so succinctly expressed it- was that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  wanted to have someone, anyone, in some Australian parliament, any Australian parliament, who would make  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  look like an intellectual, and  Senator Field  was the only person available who had those qualifications.  Senator Durack  in the first instalment of his speech last Tuesday evening continued- a curious ambivalence or lack of comprehension or mental discipline, I am not sure what it is induces this sort of a statement from members of the Opposition: 
It is all very interesting and ironic that this Government which has done so much to impede, obstruct and certainly to discourage trade by . . . 
Six lines later he continued:   . . a government which has by its highly extensive revaluations seriously impeded all the exporting and overseas revenue industries of Australia . . . 
Then in a display of incredible ignorance of the facts  Senator Durack  made this statement :   a government which has created havoc by its 25 per cent across the board tariff cuts to one major area of our trade . . . 
What  Senator Durack  is clearly postulating is that a tariff cut in some way impedes trade. I thought we had been hearing from members of the Opposition for about the last 9 months that as a result of tariff cuts a flood of cheap imports was coming into Australia. I do not know how  Senator Durack  reconciles that allegation with his other allegation that tariff cuts in some way or other impede trade. I think that it is indicative of the level of attention which the Opposition has devoted to this Bill. I am sure that  Senator Durack  is not so ignorant of these matters that he fails to appreciate that that statement of his to which I have referred is ludicrous. 

 Senator Durack expressed some specific objections to particular clauses of the Bill and  Senator Scott  repeated them. That is a defensible position. It seems to me that if that is the view of the Opposition, the appropriate action pursuant to that view would be to agree to the second reading stage of the Bill and at the Committee stage to implement amendments or to remove the clauses which the Opposition finds objectionable. But of course the Opposition is not going to do this because the Chamber of Commerce in the letter which it sent to  Senator Durack  and to all other honourable senators made it quite clear that it did not want that to be done. So the faceless men will again pull the strings which activate the puppets in this chamber.  Senator Scott  mentioned wheat sales to Chile. He criticised the actions of certain unions which impeded that trade. If it makes  Senator Scott  feel happier, I personally disapprove of that sort of action by industrial unions, just as I disapprove of the use of political-cum-economic muscle by vested interests in the dairy industry and by certain margarine manufacturers to deny Australian housewives and other consumers over the last 25 years open access to margarine supplies. Indeed, this attempt by certain margarine manufacturers, aided by their puppets in this chamber and in the other chamber- the Country Party- to subvert the free market still continues. I suppose one of the reasons why the Country Party is so reluctant to have disclosed publicly the sources of political funds may be, or no doubt is, that the Country Party and the margarine manufacturer in question would be highly embarrassed if it became a matter of public knowledge the amount of the funds which that margarine manufacturer has contributed to the Country Party. 
To return to Chile,  Senator Scott  also postulated that this action on behalf of the unions had very significantly financially disadvantaged the Australian wheat grower. It is difficult, in fact it is impossible, to make an objective assessment of that sort of situation but, for his future contemplation, I would draw  Senator Scott's  attention to the publication  Chile Today  which is issued by the Embassy of Chile in Canberra.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack for one has clearly expressed in this chamber his admiration for the junta which currently rules Chile, and I am sure that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack would not suggest that the representatives of that junta in Canberra would publish information which was less than completely accurate. According to the February edition of  Chile Today  Chile has secured wheat from the United States on 20-year terms at 4 per cent interest. If that report is true- I have no reason to believe that it is untrue and I am sure that were  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack here he would assure us that it was true, coming from that impeccable source- I suggest that the Australian wheat growers would not be prepared to meet that sort of competition, selling wheat on 20-year terms at 4 per cent interest. In other words, that is a disguised gift and not a commercial sale. 
I would like to investigate a little further this matter of tariff cuts, revaluations and so on. I must conclude from an examination of the remarks made by  Senator Durack  at page 1305 of  Hansard  that he strongly disapproves of the actions taken by this Government during 1972 and 1973 in revaluing the Australian dollar, as indeed he obviously disapproves of the tariff cuts.  His  Country Party colleagues feel very strongly about this matter; they strongly disapprove of tariff cuts. I just wish that they would go out into the countryside and tell their own supporters that they believe in high tariffs and that they belong to a Party which believes in high tariffs. I just wish that members of the Country Party had sufficient honesty to do that.  Mr President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 General business taking prcedence of Government business after 3 p.m. 

As I was saying, since  Senator Durack  has clearly expressed opposition- I presume he speaks for the entire Opposition on this matterto the revaluation of the Australian dollar during 1973 and to tariff cuts, and also since the Opposition has recently and enthusiastically been converted to monetary prudence and Friedmanism, and since it is seriously concerned about the inordinate growth in the money supply and has stated that it is extremely highly irresponsible for a government to allow growth in the money supply in excess of 20 per cent, notwithstanding the fact that it presided over a growth rate of 34 per cent in the money supply during the dying months of its term in office, I wonder just what mechanism the Opposition would have used to control the explosion of the money supply during 1973 if it had not revalued the dollar or had not cut tariffs. I suggest that it could exercise arbitrary controls, but free enterprise governments do not exercise arbitrary controls, do they? Then again, free enterprise governments do not believe in high tariffs and they do not believe in subsidies either, do they? Indeed, there seems to be so much confusion about the meaning of the term ' free enterprise '. It is thrown around as a sort of euphoric term in this chamber by members of the Opposition when obviously they do not have the faintest idea of its meaning or, if they do have the faintest idea of its meaning, their fundamental intellectual dishonesty prevents them from ever making a rational statement about it. 
Capitalise profits and socialise losses, yes. I noticed that  Senator Webster  2 days ago failed to respond to a question when he was asked whether he believed in high tariffs and whether he also believed that tariff cuts were a manifestation of socialism. If  Senator Webster  does believe that tariff cuts are a manifestation of socialism I trust that some time in the future he will enlighten us on that point. I trust he will do this as I trust subsequent speakers for the Opposition on this Bill, if any, will explain how, having announced a policy of revaluation or of tariff cuts and, of course, being apostles of free enterprise automatically renouncing any arbitrary restriction on the inflow of foreign capital, they would have controlled the flow of foreign capital and the consequential explosion of the money supply during 1973 without employing any of those tools which I have mentioned. 
It was asserted by  Senator Durack  and I think, by  Senator Scott  that we had managed to trade very successfully with centrally planned economies and with the entire world until now without any Overseas Trading Corporation and that  ipso facto  there was no need for an Overseas Trading Corporation. Members of the Opposition appear to have very short memories on this matter. In fact, I can recall from early in 1 970 to very late in 1 972, a period when wheat quotas had imposed significant hardships upon the Australian wheat industry and Australian wheat growers- they were imposed by a Liberal-National Country Party Government- and the nation was rather desperate in a search for wheat markets we failed to make sales to our major wheat market, China. Of course, the reason for this was that China had been so consistently insulted by the Leader of the National Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  that it had decided in an extreme buyers' market to purchase no grain from Australia.  Mr Anthony  showed his concern for the rural community and for Australian exports in a statement issued in February 1 972 when he said that he would not sell his soul for trade and that he did not care if we never sold a bushel of wheat to China. I do not know what the value of his soul is. But I suspect that a number of members of the Liberal Party, having been pushed into 2 political disasters by this bushranger in the last 18 months are beginning to have second thoughts about the value of both  Mr Anthony's  soul and his political acumen. 
I think that was factual enough. 1 think it was highly factual. The accuracy of it can be assessed by the reaction that it provoked from honourable senators opposite. 
There interjects  Senator Jessop.  Of course, ever since  Senator Hall  entered the Senate,  Senator Jessop  has been extremely jealous of  Senator Hall's  political acumen and his ability to grab headlines in the newspapers.  Senator Hall  made a statement 3 weeks ago calling upon the Opposition not to reject the Budget - 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture whether he has seen a report in the issue of the reputable  Primary Industry Newsletter  of 8 October stating that the Graziers Association of New South Wales- which is an organisation that has very close affiliations with the National Country Party of Australia- has been sabotaging the wool market by repeatedly calling for a devaluation of the Australian dollar and by spreading false rumours about an impending devaluation. Could the activities of the Graziers Association of New South Wales adversely affect the wool market? In more recent times, has there been or is there any sign of an improvement in the market? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Can the Minister supply any further information relevant to the question that I raised last month as to the possibility of using the Australian Army Reserve unit stationed in Kalgoorlie for bushfire control? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Will the Minister advise the Senate of the total cost so far of repatriation benefits paid to personnel who served in the Vietnam war? 

 -Mr President, I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the Senate expresses its concern about the implications of the Government's investment allowance policy. 

 -Mr President, I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That- 
1 ) The Senate expresses its concern at the fiscal implications of the Government's 'new federalism ' policy for the Australian States. 
The Senate declares that to whatever degree the Fraser Government implements its stated policy of making State governments responsible for raising the money that they spend, the four less populous States particularly will be financially disadvantaged. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to the Government's decision which was announced last week to pay a bounty of $ 1 1.8 1 a tonne superphosphate on the grounds that this would increase farm productivity. I ask the Minister whether he knows that the present Prime Minister said on the Perth Television program  State File  on 27 April 1975: 
I think that the old value of the subsidy 
That is $1 1.81 per tonne-  would not increase the use of superphosphate by one ton. 
Does the Minister consider the Prime Minister's assertion to be ill-informed and inaccurate? If not, will the Minister explain how paying a bounty at a rate which the Prime Minister has stated would not increase the use of superphosphate by one ton would stimulate farm productivity? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. It refers to the Prime Minister's announcement of last week and, indeed, the Minister's own words of a few minutes ago that victims of the New South Wales and Queensland floods who have lost their employment as a result of the floods will receive unemployment benefit immediately. Will the Government extent the same privilege to the sacked gold miners of Kalgoorlie and Mt Magnet who are victims of the Government's repudiation of its pre-election promise to keep the mines operating? 
-Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen an article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 11 February 1976 which forecast that 546 tractors in excess of 162 kilowatts would be sold this year? Does he know that these units cost about $50,000 each, making a total of $27m, and would attract an investment allowance in the vicinity of $ 10m? Is it feasible, given the marginal taxation rates currently being paid by large wheatgrowers, that the loss to revenue from a $10m investment allowance could be as high as $5m. Does the Minister know that all these units are imported? Does he acknowledge, therefore, that this very expensive allowance cannot in this instance stimulate Australian manufacturing? If so, should this disguised $5m expenditure be seen as a manifestation of the Government's determination to promote mad extravagance in the private sector, or is it simply a gratuitous handout to the rich? 
A few minutes ago I thought that  Senator Little  had made a comeback. I am very pleased to see that  Senator Harradine  has realised the implicit threat to the less populous States from the Fraser Government's new federalism policy. Of course, we have seen already that  Senator Rae,  another Tasmanian, recognises this. The Australian Labor Party recognises it. The  Deputy  Premier of Queensland recognises it. The Liberal member for Lilley,  Mr Kevin  Cairns, recognises it. Of course,  Sir Eric  Willis, the Premier of New South Wales, also recognises that 'new federalism' means a good deal for New South Wales and a raw deal for the four outlying States. With a little more enlightenment from  Senator Harradine  and the other people I have mentioned, the Premier of Queensland might even recognise the implicit threat, and perhaps even Courtus retardus, commonly known as the western galah, will recognise it as well. 
My apologies to you,  Mr President.  I draw the attention of  Senator Harradine  to the fact that on the notice paper under General Business there is a notice of motion which I gave on 17 February on this very subject. It states: 
That- 
1 ) The Senate expresses its concern at the fiscal implications of the Government's 'new federalism' policy for the Australian States; and 
The Senate declares that to whatever degree the Fraser Government implements its stated policy of making State governments responsible for raising the money that they spend, the four less populous States particularly will be financially disadvantaged. 
I am pleased to see that  Senator Harradine  agrees with that motion. I will be interested to see the way other honourable senators from the outlying States who preach and pontificate and peddle the myth that the Senate is a States House and not a parties House actually vote if the Fraser Government's new federalism policy is submitted to the Senate. 
The Governor-General's Speech contains the assertion that Australia has just experienced 'the worst prolonged inflation in the nation's history'. That assertion is a lie and the public record shows it to be a lie.  Mr President,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table compiled by the Parliamentary Library which shows quarterly changes in the consumer price index from December 1949 to December 1952 and from December 1 972 to December 1975. 

<graphic href="067232197602253_52_2.jpg"></graphic>

In the earlier period, that is from 1949 to 1952- the period when  Mr Fraser's  patron  Sir Robert  Menzies was fulfilling his pre-election promise to put value back into the pound- the index increased by 52.7 per cent. In the latter period the increase was 50.1 per cent. No matter what period is selected, whether it be quarterly, annually or over the aggregate period, the facts belie the assertion in the Governor-General's Speech. In making that assertion the Governor-General, of course, was acting as mouthpiece for the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser.  It was  Mr Fraser  who said less than a year ago: 'I support the leadership of Bill Snedden. Bill Snedden has my full support. There is no contest. ' It was  Mr Fraser  who said in August 1975 that the Budget would be passed. He said in September 1975 that it was his strongly held belief that the late  Senator Milliner  should be replaced by a Labor nominee; but  Mr Fraser  had no compunction in using the Queensland Government's parliamentary piracy as a means of repudiating his strongly held belief. 
Yes,  Mr President.  It was  Mr Fraser  who invented stories about nonexistent Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development forecasts. He promised to support wage indexation, and so on ad nauseam. It is appropriate that the GovernorGeneral, acting as mouthpiece for  Mr Fraser,  should have stated so early in his address what is demonstrably an untruth. It is perhaps even more appropriate that, after launching his grab for power last October,  Mr Fraser  should have received an accolade and benediction from the most culpable liar of them all- that nautical Blimp, Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports and Knight of the Thistle,  Sir Robert  Menzies. 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament, or against any Statute, unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal . . . 
I do not think that it excludes former members of parliament from being the subject of criticism if a particular honourable senator thinks that such criticism is justified. I do not know what expression was used, but if in using it  Senator Walsh  believed that the decadent Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports was a liar he is expressing nothing more than a belief. I hope that we will not get down to such refinements in this chamber that we will prevent  Senator Walsh  from expressing his honest belief that a former member of another place is now a liar. I do not think that you should uphold the point of order,  Mr President.  Unless he says something that is very abusive about individuals who have become spokesmen in this type of crisis, I think  Senator Walsh  is perfectly within his rights in expressing the extent of his opinion about them. 
I seek your guidance,  Mr President.  Have you upheld the point of order? 
Thank you,  Mr President.  Let it not be forgotten that  Sir Robert  Menzies stated in the House of Representatives on 29 April 1965: 
The Australian Government is in receipt of a request from the Government of South Vietnam for further military assistance. 
With that untrue statement- I hope that does not offend  Senator Bonner's  sensitivity-  Sir Robert  Menzies led Australia into one of the most criminally insane wars in history. Directly pursuant to that statement nearly 500 Australians, many of them conscripts, and countless Vietnamese were killed. Many of the people who were accessories to or accomplices in Australia's involvement in that war still occupy the Liberal and Country Party benches in this Parliament. One of them sits in the Prime Minister's chair. 
With respect,  Mr President,  I was reflecting upon the policy of a previous government. 
Very well, I withdraw the reference to the Prime Minister. In 1966 the Australian Labor Party fought an election on its opposition to that war in Vietnam. It was massacred at the polls, just as it was massacred on 13 December last. Since 13 December last, of course, my Party has been deluged with gratuitous advice from the right wing radicals and newspaper editorialists, who were jointly responsible for the moral outrage of Vietnam, not to dwell upon the past. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  According to the newspaper editoralists and right wing radicals we should forget the actions that those who continuously plotted to subvert the verdict of the 1 972 and 1 974 elections took in October and November of last year. Lest there be any doubts as to whether the actions which the then Opposition took at that stage were totally premeditated or were provoked by events immediately preceding October and November of 1975 1 wish to quote from the transcript of the  State File  television program in Perth of 5 January 1976 featuring an interview between Peter Finn and the present Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers. Senator Withers  and Peter Finn had been discussing the events of October and November. The transcript reads: 
Finn: Had you been planning this for months? 
Withers: What we did in this period- I put together that operation in October 1973. 
Finn: As long ago as that? 
Withers: As long ago as that. When I re-moved for the deferral of the Supply Bills in April '74, there were people who always expected rejection- but that was never my intention. The media did not believe me at the time, until I issued a piece of paper. I wrote to Bill Snedden in October '73 and set it all out. I even had the motions, and worked it all out then because you always had to be ready. We could have perhaps moved against the Appropriation Bills in 1973 for reasons which do not matter now but we didn't, and when we moved against the Supply Bills in 1974 I just pulled the piece of paper out. 
It could scarcely be put more lucidly, more succinctly, that what motivated the then Opposition to take the action it did in 1 974 and in October and November of 1975 was not what it officially claimed but the simple fact that it had refused to accept the verdict of either the 1 972 or the 1 974 elections. 
We are being advised to forget that the strategy which  Senator Withers  boasts of having worked out in 1973 remained viable only because the Senate was affronted by the Government of Queensland because the Government of Queensland broke a convention which had stood for 24 years and which every other Labor and non-Labor government in Australia had accepted without question until 1975. If the  New York Times  and the  Washington Post  had accepted the facile, never-look-backwards hypothesis now being offered by people in Australia who call themselves conservatives the villainies of Watergate never would have been exposed and Richard Nixon still would be  President  of the United States of America. The people opposite who bask smugly in the satisfaction of their recent electoral victory should remember not only the ultimate consequence of that victory but also that Richard Nixon won by a landslide. The Leader of the honourable senators opposite at that time advanced the proposition that whatever can be grabbed should be taken. The electorate, at least at this stage, has apparently accepted that proposition. There are groups in Australian society which have always regarded the parliamentary system as fraudulent. 1 remind honourable senators opposite who bask smugly in their satisfaction that it will be very much more difficult in the future to persuade those groups to operate within rather than without the parliamentary system. 
The Governor-General's Speech itself bears the personal stamp of the Prime Minister in almost every line. Its ethical roots are from Ayn Rand who has described the Sermon on the Mount as evil, who regards the ethics of Christianity as evil because Christianity, at least ethical Christianity, contains a doctrine of collective responsibility and of compassion. Of course, Ayn Rand says that the most desirable attributes to be found in humanity are those of greed and selfishness. The sanctimonious pseudo Christian moralisers in this society who often preach at the Labor Party might well ruminate on the implications of Ayn Rand 's philosophy and their Leaders proclaimed identification with it. 
Fundamentally, the economic Randism is the conviction that everything which is sold in the market place is innately desirable and therefore to be nurtured, encouraged and fostered. On the other hand, all services which are provided by governments and not sold in the market place are innately undesirable and should be kept at the barest minimum with one exception, of course, and that is in what is euphemistically called defence. Government spending is all right for the purposes of destruction, provided it is not used for welfare or constructive purposes. It follows therefore from that basic economic precept that it would be admirable and desirable if the production of tobacco and cigarettes were to be substantially increased. If, of course, the consumption of cigarettes were to be substantially increased, that would generate jobs, profits, investment and economic growth. 
And taxes. That, so the economic Rand says, is desirable. On the other hand, the expansion of Government provided medical services in a largely futile attempt to cure the side effects of increased smoking- that is, lung cancer- is innately bad and should be ipso facto resisted. 
I spent a few days last weekend looking at commercial television, something I do not do often. It did drive home to me yet again the frivolous nature of so many of the commodities that are sold in the private sector. We have about 27 varieties of personal deodorants and 12 varieties of pet food so that our dogs and cats do not become bored by eating the same kangaroo meat every night. Apparently, our pets must have a variety. There is also an infinite range of frivolous cosmetics and so on. One might have expected that the dullest minds opposite would have perceived that perhaps there is no critical urgency to increase the production of certain types of commodities which are sold in the private sector. I refer to frivolous cosmetics and health damaging cigarettes, not to mention, of course, the environmental damage which the production of many of these commodities causes. One would have expected that they would at least have become a little discriminating in their praise of the private sector and their unqualified support for the notion that the private sector must grow, grow, grow, without any attempt to evaluate the social desirability of the commodities which that private sector is pouring out or of the environmental damage which they cause as a by-product. 
Of course, the Governor-General 's Speech, or the Government's speech was not Randism in its pure form. Super-imposed on the basic Randism was a mish-mash of meaningless generality, pious contradictions and double speak. Here are a few examples: 
The Government will not permit economic recovery to take place at the expense of those who are less well off. 
This was stated a fortnight after the Government had deferred pension increases, cancelled pensioners' funeral benefits and announced that financial assistance for hearing aids for pensioners would be withdrawn. I quote from the Governor-General 's Speech again: 
The Government's long-term objective is to prevent  . .the increasing dependence of individuals on the Slate. 
The Speech referred to the Government's determination to :  minimise direction by Government and the unnecessary redirection of resources through the Government's bureaucracy. 
That is an unqualified belief in free enterprise from a Government which just 16 days before had announced the re-introduction of the superphosphate bounty, the explicit purpose of which was to reallocate resources in a particular direction. There was, of course, a derogatory reference to the growth of the federal bureaucracy. It is interesting to note that last year the federal bureaucracy grew at the rate of 3.3 per cent whereas the State bureaucracies in the Liberal and Country Party governed States of Victoria and Queensland grew at a rate of 10 per cent and 8 per cent respectively. I wonder what plans this present government has for curbing the prolific growth rate of the Public Service in those Liberal and Country Party governed States. The Speech continued: 
The Government seeks to assure its overseas trading partners, including Japan, that we will be a stable and steady trading partner. 
Apparently, the Government has some mechanism devised under which it will be able to prevent the Premier of Queensland from repeating his rather reckless and somewhat foolish statements of 12 months ago when he threatened to withdraw supplies of coal from Queensland unless the Japanese purchased Queensland beef. If the Government has a policy which will effectively contain this maverick, I trust that it will bc expounded shortly. Another self-contradiction is contained in this statement from the GovernorGeneral 's Speech: 
Government support for industry, primary as well as secondary, will be based on the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission. 
Of course, either the Government or the Industries Assistance Commission makes policy in this area. Interestingly enough, despite the Government's self-proclaimed commitment to implement the recommendations of the IAC, the Government has not implemented the recommendations contained in any IAC reports. It went very close to implementing the IAC's recommendations in regard to the superphosphate bounty. It stood the beef industry report on its head insofar as it cancelled the export inspection levy which the IAC explicitly stated must not take priority over the other assistance measures recommended and the Government has done nothing about those other assistance measures. One report it has partially implemented and another report it has stood on its head. The Government totally ignored the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty report because the IAC recommended phasing out the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty over a 4-year period. Then, we have double speak. The Speech states: 
The disadvantaged must be helped in ways which will leave them the maximum independence.  . . Australia will not return to a soundly based prosperity without understanding and co-operation between all sections of the community. 
It must require a monumental capacity for double speak to issue a statement like that 10 days after the Government has repudiated its promise on wage indexation. The Speech also states: 
The Government will encourage measures aimed at improving the efficiency, economy and adequacy of our transport services. 
Meaningless generalities and pious platitudes. Let me return to the superphosphate bounty. I think something should be said about it in the few minutes I have left. The present Government and it has not been denied that six of the 12 cabinet Ministers have a direct interest in the payment of the superphosphate bounty- announced on 10 February that a bounty would be paid for a period of 1 6 months at a rate of $ 1 1 .8 1 a ton. The official Press release which was issued by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  gave as a raison d'etre for the reintroduction of the bounty the claim that it would increase farm productivity. That was the sole reason given. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  9 months ago went on public record as saying that the restoration of the bounty at the old rate would not increase the use of superphosphate by one tonne. Despite  Senator Cotton's  attempt to be flippant in this chamber last week in answer to a question on this subject, that contradiction has never been explained. I challenge all supporters of the Government who are present in the Senate now and who will be speaking later in this debate to explain that contradiction and to explain to us whether the Prime Minister's statement was ill informed and inaccurate or whether the officially stated justification of the Minister for Primary Industry for reintroducing the bounty was a hoax. Some, of course, argue that bounty payments of this nature can be justified on welfare grounds. It is true that significant sectors of agriculture had been through a 12 to IS months period of very low prices and there are some welfare problems, grossly overstated though they may often be. 
Of course, with all agricultural subsidies the distribution is highly regressive. With agricultural subsidies in general roughly half the money goes to 15 per cent of the farmers who have the highest incomes and the 15 per cent of the farmers who have the lowest incomes receive 2 per cent of the subsidy. In this instance, at least in South Australia, it seems that the distribution is even more regressive. Figures presented to the Industries Assistance Commission interim inquiry last May revealed that a meagre 6.6 per cent of farmers in South Australia received 46 per cent of, the subsidy payment and 74 per cent of the farmers received only 26 per cent of the subsidy payment. 
Then in the area of economic management in which this Government claims to have particular expertise we had the savings bonds fiasco. These were cancelled after being on issue for 10 or 12 days. Finally it was revealed that the savings bonds did not raise $560m but raised $760m. They were offering an interest rate well above the prevailing market rate and unnecessarily high as was demonstrated by the premature removal of the bonds from sale. If the bonds are held for their full 7-year period the cost to the taxpayers who will ultimately receive the bill for the unnecessarily high interest rate paid will be $42m. So much for the Government which claims to have particular competence and expertise in this area. Once again the rationale was to tie up effectively the currently high liquid position of banking institutions and building societies in case at some time 6 or 9 months hence everybody went on a spending spree and we were back in a situation of classic demand-pull inflation. After stating that as a reason lor introducing the bonds and paying an unnecessarily high interest rate the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  decided to make them redeemable at 28 days notice without interest penalty after August. Not only does the taxpayer receive an unnecessary bill of $40m if the bonds are held to maturity but in addition the issue must fail to achieve its stated objective. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer and relates to the question I asked yesterday regarding the costs and effects of the Government's 40 per cent investment allowance policy in a particular area. The Minister pointed out that my question was based on an estimate published in a newspaper which itself may be incorrect. In view of that, I ask: Does the Government have its own estimates relevant to this question? If so, will the Minister present them to the Senate? If not, is the Government flying blind on this issue without any idea of the consequences or costs of its policy? 
-Has the Minister for Industry and Commerce seen a report in last Monday's  Australian Financial Review of  his address to the Confederation of Apparel Manufacturers in which he is reported to have said that the tariff cuts of 1974 had not in the slightest degree reduced the cost of living and that all they did was to drive manufacturers to their knees? Is that report substantially correct? If so, if there were no changes in the relative prices of imports and domestic manufactures after the tariff cuts, why did comsumers buy relatively more imported goods, especially textiles, after the cuts? 
I wish to speak briefly on this legislation. As  Senator Wriedt  has pointed out, and as the second reading speech has pointed out, the purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment of that portion of the general purpose capital grants to the States which is funded by a grant from the Federal Government, as distinct from the remainder of the general purpose grants which are made by way of loan. I wish to make 2 points relating to the legislation. Firstly, the existing financial arrangements discriminate very heavily against the 4 outlying States of Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. Secondly, the arrangement which is favourable to those States and which can be justified on both social and economic grounds is currently under threat by the undertaking given by the present Government in its new federalism policy published some 7 or 8 months ago, and the pre-election undertakings of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to implement that policy. 
The basic objective, as enunciated by the present Government, is to make State governments responsible for raising the revenue which they spend. To achieve that objective fully, of course, entails the total elimination of financial redistributions from the Federal Government. Whether that step is comtemplated has not yet been made clear by the Prime Minister or any of his Ministers. To whatever degree the objective of making State governments responsible for raising the revenue that they spend is achieved and subsequently put into legislation, it follows inevitably that the 4 outlying States will be financially disadvantaged. It could be, of course, that this pre-election undertaking by the Liberal Government and the present Prime Minister may ultimately be as worthless as the present Prime Minister's undertaking that he would not oppose  Mr Snedden  for the Liberal Party leadership; that the Budget would be passed; that it was his strongly held belief that a deceased senator should be replaced by a State government with a senator from the same party; his preelection promises on wage indexation; and his pre-election promises of integrity in government. 
It may well be that this new federalism and the Prime Minister's assurances on this policy of new federalism are as worthless as all of those other undertakings he has given in the last 1 2 months. In case it is not, it is worth examining the financial implications of the policy. In particular, I would recommend that honourable senators from our outlying States- from my own State and, in particular from the State of Tasmania and especially  Senator Walters  who spoke in the debate on the Address-in-Reply yesterday at some length on the alleged financial disadvantages currently inflicted upon Tasmania- should consider the ramifications of new federalism for their States.  Senator Walters  should consider the very real and crippling financial burdens which that policy will impose upon Tasmania should it ever be implemented. 
I should like to refer to figures published in Budget Paper No. 4, page 1 84 of last year- the distribution on a per capita basis of funds under general purpose capital grants to the States, semi-government and local government authorities of which one-third is funded by this legislation. The difference between the national average per capita and the distribution to Tasmania under this heading is $ 124. To equalise that distribution in the way that the new federalism infers- such distribution will be equalised or eliminated altogether- will disadvantage Tasmania to the extent of about $50m. In the 1975-76 Budget Paper No. 4, page 145 which deals with the summary of all payments to the States, we find that the average per capita total payments to the States on a national basis was $441 per head. Western Australia received $108 above that national average- this is in 1974-75- and Tasmania received a staggering $248 per capita above the national average. 
That does not tell the whole story. If we look at the revenue side, we find that tax collections on a per capita basis are significantly higher in the States of New South Wales and Victoria. The last year for which published figures are available in the Taxation Commissioner's report is 1972-73. Personal income tax collections per capita in Victoria were $302 and in Tasmania, $248. In summary, the net effect of the full equalisation- the full achievement of the Fraser Government's stated objective of making State governments fiscally responsible and of making State governments responsible for raising the money which they spend- on both the revenue side and the redistribution from Federal sources side to the State of Western Australia, when the figures are updated, will be about $200m a year. For Tasmania, it will be about $120m a year. Of course, on a per capita basis, that is much more severe for Tasmania. 
I commend to all Tasmanian senators, in particular, a deep study of this subject. It is clear, of course, that  Senator Rae  has long realised the implications and the fiscal threat in this policy to the State which he purports to represent or does represent. No doubt that was one of the significant reasons why  Senator Rae  fought tooth and nail to protect  Mr Snedden  from the surreptitious attack on his leadership which was launched by the present Prime Minister less than 1 year ago.  Senator Rae,  of course, is not the only non-Labor politician in Australia who has recognised the threat to the smaller States implicit in this legislation.  Mr Kevin  Cairns, the member of the House of Representatives for Lilley in Queensland, some months ago went on public record in terms highly critical of the legislation. He added that it was a further manifestation of the fact that economic decision making in the Liberal Party was centralised in Melbourne, with a little bit left over for Sydney. 
Sitting suspended from 12.46 to 2.15 p.m. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It refers to a report in the  West Australian  of 9 March which stated that Swan Brewery Co. Ltd will retrench 350 of its employees when its new $50m Canning Vale brewery is completed in 1978? Will the $50m expenditure qualify for the Government's 40 per cent investment allowance and consequently an $8. 5m subsidy from the taxpayer? Did the company make a firm decision to build its new brewery last October before the investment allowance policy was introduced? Will other companies reap windfall gains for investment decisions which pre-date the investment allowance policy? What is the total cost of this superfluous generosity? 
I was not going to participate in this debate on the Loan Bill until, earlier today,  Senator Baume  spoke. I thought it was necessary to participate to correct some of the outrageous distortions of truth and denials of fact which  Senator Baume  had written into the  Hansard  record this afternoon. If  Senator Baume  's comments this afternoon can be taken as a fair sample of his intellectual honesty, it is debatable whether he should have become a Liberal Party politician in this present Government or whether he should have followed some of his relatives into the Sydney Stock Exchange. In particular he claimed, in common with the allegations made especially by  Senator Carrick  when this Bill was first debated in September and October of last year, that Treasury officials acting in collusion with the then Labor Government had cooked the books and had deliberately understated the estimates of expenditure. That was the allegation which  Senator Carrick  and others made at that time.  Senator Baume  had the audacity to claim this afternoon that that allegation was substantially correct. 
I quote firstly from the monthly financial statement entitled  Statement of Financial Transactions 1975-76  issued on 7 January 1976. This document shows that the estimated outlays for 1975-76 were $21,915.2m and the actual outlays for the 6 months to 31 December 1975 were $10,695. lm, somewhat less than half the estimated outlays for half of the financial year. Moreover,  Senator Baume  's own Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  in  Press Release No. 38  which was issued earlier in January made the following statement: 
. present indications suggested that total outlays could be kept to a level somewhat below the Budget estimate of$21,915m. 
There was in that estimate a calculation which allowed for an alleged saving of $362m. The Government was making this alleged saving on such items as not granting to the Australian Industry Development Corporation money which the Corporation was not going to spend in any case and a bit more financial chicanery of that nature. Even allowing for the $362m in expenditure which was shaved from the figures for the financial year, the present Treasurer acknowledged in January that outlays were being kept within the Budget estimates as the figures setting out financial transactions as at the month of January 1976 show. Yet,  Senator Baume  has the audacity to claim here this afternoon that the outrageous allegation by  Senator Carrick  in particular that Treasury officials had cooked the books at the behest of the then Labor Government was substantially correct. 
I wish to make 2 further points. It has been alleged frequently by Opposition senators, both before and after the December election, that pay-as-you-earn tax collections this financial year under the Budget introduced by the Labor Government will be increased by 40 per cent. It is true that the estimates for PA YE tax collections show an increase of 40 per cent. But, in fact, earnings have not increased at the rate which was expected when the Budget estimates were drawn up. Honourable senators should bear in mind that that was probably before the end of June 1975. Earnings have not increased at the rate which was expected due substantially to the success of the previous Government in having the wage indexation guidelines respected and honoured by the industrial movement. 
Because wages have not increased, PA YE tax collections have not increased to the degree envisaged. Referring again to the  Statement of Financial Transactions 1975-76,  issued on 7 
January, we find that PA YE tax collections for the full financial year were estimated at $8,683m while in fact in the 6 months of the financial year only $2,723.9m had been collected. At that rate, there would be a deficit of approximately $2,000m in the anticipated collections of PA YE taxes in the full financial year. Honourable senators should bear in mind that PA YE tax collections, unlike contributions from companies and self employed persons, do not vary greatly throughout a financial year. 
So, we can readily identify from those figures the source of the significant increase in the likely Budget deficit over and above that which was forecast in mid- 1975 when the Estimates were drawn up. The Liberal Party and the National Country Party cannot have it both ways. If Government members want to berate the Budget which was introduced by the former Treasurer on the grounds that the final deficit this year will be higher than $4,000m, they should at least drop the dishonest claim that PA YE taxation and other forms of personal taxation will show an increase of more than 40 per cent this financial year on receipts last financial year. 
Let me make one more point.  Senator Messner  who spoke an hour or so ago evidently is still unaware of the statements of his Leader on superphosphate bounties. The Government has announced that it is reintroducing the superphosphate bounty, thereby partially honouring one of its pre-election promises. I observe in passing that it is one of the very few preelection promises by  Mr Fraser  which are to be honoured.  Senator Messner  told us this evening that this promise was not being honoured and that the additional expenditure involved this financial year of $20m- which must result in a consequential increase of $20m in the deficit which seems to worry our opponents so much- is not being incurred because wealthy graziers or half a dozen Cabinet Ministers wanted to provide themselves with a gratuitious handout at the expense of the taxpayers. It was provided because the Government was anxious to maintain employment in superphosphate works. We see that the Fraser Government, which has 6 farmers among its 12 inner Cabinet members, is not a government of farmers and wealthy graziers at all but a government which really stands for the workers. Unfortunately,  Senator Messner  's case falls completely to the ground when we examine the statement which  Mr Fraser  made last year- I use his words: 'Restoration of the bounty at the old rate, that is $ 1 1 .8 1 per tonne, would not increase the use of superphosphate by one tonne'.  Senator Messner  either should retract the allegation which he made this afternoon or should have the decency to stand up in the Senate and tell his colleagues and members of the Australian Labor Party that his Leader,  Mr Fraser,  does not know what he is talking about. 
I ask the Leader of the Government: Having resurrected the system of imperial honours, does the Government intend to follow the precedent which evidently was established by a previous Liberal Government to offer Orders of the British Empire as an optional alternative to monetary payments to people who surreptitiously have supplied services to the Liberal Party? 
The Meat Export Charge Amendment Bill which is currently before the Senate has a double purpose, namely, to suspend the export inspection levy charge of lc per lb and to suspend as from 1 March the brucellosis eradication levy of 0.6c per lb on the export of beef and veal. The Australian Labor Party is opposing the first proposition in the Bill but is not opposing the second. Because the 2 propositions are indivisible we are forced to oppose the entire Bill. The Opposition has no objection whatsoever to the proposition to suspend the 0.6c per lb levy for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis, particularly as the Government has already forecast its intention to impose as a substitute charge from 1 July a levy of $ 1 per head on all cattle slaughtered in Australia. We accept that that may well be a superior method of funding the campaign for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis than the imposition of a levy on exports only. 
In relation to the proposition to remove, not just temporarily but for an indefinite period, the levy for the meat export inspection charge, it was claimed in the second reading speech delivered in the House of Representatives by the-Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and in the Senate by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  that the legislation was in line with one of the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission to suspend the export charge on beef and veal. While this is partially correct, it does not tell the complete story. It presents a misleading facade and interpretation of what the Industries Assistance Commission report in fact stated. The Government, in the Governor-General's Speech, stated: 
Government support for industry- primary as well as secondary- will be based on reports of the Industries Assistance Commission. 
It has been claimed quite erroneously by the Government that in presenting this legislation it is following that declared policy of adopting IAC recommendations with respect to primary industry. In fact, the Government in introducing this Bill has stood the IAC report on its head. The fourth recommendation in the IAC report on the beef industry reads: 
the meat export charge on beef be suspended, but with the provisos that the suspension of the charge 
should not take precedence over other assistance recommended, 
should not prejudice the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaign . . . 
There are one or two other qualifications but the crucial qualification is the first one, that the suspension of the levy should not take precedence over other assistance recommended. 
The first of the other assistance measures recommended is the provision of special credit facilities at concession rates of interest for beef producers who are assessed to be viable. The second recommendation reads: 
those producers whose farm businesses are assessed to be non-viable by rural reconstruction authorities be eligible for household support which would provide a level of living for up to one year generally equivalent to that provided through unemployment benefits . . . 
While there has been some indication from the Minister for Primary Industry that the Government is conducting some tentative, exploratory discussions with the States in relation to recommendation 1 which refers to the provision, of special credit facilities for viable producers, there is certainly no firm proposal by the Government to act upon that recommendation at this stage, nor do I believe there will be a proposal in .the near future. There is no suggestion whatsoever that the Government is taking any action with respect to the second recommendation in relation to special welfare loans for producers who have been assessed as being non-viable. It was anticipated by the IAC in the main text of the report that about half of these loans would be gifts. 
To some extent there is a welfare problem in the beef industry. That problem remains untreated by this Government in direct con,tradiction in fact, in defiance- of the order of priority which was clearly established by the Industries Assistance Commission. The Labor Party has 2 other reasons for opposing this segment of the legislation. The first of these reasons lies, I suppose, in what could be called a value judgment. We believe that an export inspection charge is a completely legitimate cost of production comparable to freight charges or to slaughtering charges. Therefore the cost incurred as a cost of production ought to be borne by the producer or, as the mirror image, by the final consumer of the product. It ought not to be a subsidy or a grant provided free by the Government. The general proposition that the Government should not intervene in the market place but should allow consumers and others maximum freedom in distributing their dollars and in deciding how their incomes should be spent is frequently enunciated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  but very rarely implemented. When this Bill was debated in the House of Representatives the honourable member for Darling Downs (  Mr McVeigh)  stated: 
The principal benefit of meat inspection is associated with  public  health and as such the cost of maintaining the public  health  must be  borne  by the whole community . . .  if one accepts that proposition as being accurate I suppose it follows quite logically that governments ought to cover the cost of this meat inspection service. The trouble is that the assertion made by the honourable member for Darling Downs is utterly untrue. The reason for providing' a meat export inspection, service and a guarantee of cleanliness is simply that most of our overseas customers refuse to buy meat on any other basis. To have the meat carry a certificate of cleanliness adds considerably to the value of the product. Indeed, without that certificate the product is unsaleable. I shall pursue the public health myth peddled by the honourable member for Darling Downs a little further. A common complaint in sheep is  cysticercus ovis  which is held, particularly in the United States, to be highly objectionable. Most importing countries refuse to accept mutton which carries the symptom of this infection but it is utterly harmless. The cysts are completely benign. There is no evidence that this infection has ever , done any harm to any human being. It is held to be objectionable because it is unsightly* So the export inspection charge is a legitimate. charge and as' such it is not a public health measure. There is no more reason for the Government to provide a service free for the inspection of export meat than for it to provide free transport from the farm or the station to the abattoir, or to provide free slaughtering facilities. The 3 situations are indivisible. 
The third reason why the Labor Party opposes this measure, and perhaps the most important of all, is that there are, to say the least, grave doubts about .the effectiveness of the legislation in achieving its stated objective .which is to provide a benefit over a full financial year of the order of $20m to beef cattle producer's. 
Given the nature of the meat market, especially at the present time, and given some empirical evidence which I shall cite shortly, it is highly probable that the major beneficiaries of this piece of largesse from our economy-minded Government will be the foreign buyers of meat who already are buying a product at bargain prices. Doubts were expressed by the commissioners of the Industries Assistance Commission who conducted the beef industry inquiry as to' whether, in fact, the benefit of a remission of the export levy would be passed back to producers or passed back to the industry. Of course, for mat reason, among others, the IAC quite clearly and explicitly gave lowest priority to this measure. Evidence was presented at the inquiry by the New South Wales Department of Agriculture. I quote from the report what was suggested by the Department: 
. where there is effective competition among buyers and exporters some of the savings would be passed back to the producers. 
I emphasise the words 'some of the savings' - 
Where the export charge is being absorbed by those who provide processing and marketing services, its suspension would improve the ability of exporters to compete in export markets. 
That last phrase is worth repeating: 
. its suspension would improve the ability of exporters to compete in export markets. 
Obviously, there is only one way in which that can happen. If the competitive position of exporters is improved, then exporters have to be selling at lower prices. If they are selling at lower prices, by definition the full benefit of the levy remission will not be passed on to the Australian exporter, much less on to the Australian meat producer. In a completely competitive market, the remission of a charge of this nature is tantamount to an export subsidy. If this service is provided free of levy, it becomes conceptually an export subsidy. If a particular export is subsidised in a competitive market, it is reasonable to expect- it occurs almost invariably- that the benefit of that subsidy will be divided between the Australian exporter and the foreign buyer. 
However, meat marketing overseas is far from competitive. Abroad Australian meat- Australian beef in particular- faces not price competition but an import embargo. There are various tiers of markets at various prices. Indeed, to earn an entitlement to sell meat in the United States of America, which is the highest priced market, it is necessary for an exporter to earn a credit by selling meat in some other part of the world in some very much lower priced market. Because the market is so far removed from a competitive marketing situation there are extreme doubts whether the benefit of this subsidy will be received in substantial degree- or, indeed, at all- by the Australian exporter or the Australian producer. In a phrase, we have an extreme buyer's market. Under those conditions, there is a strong probability that the major beneficiary will be the foreign buyer. Not only is that a respectable marketing theory; there is also empirical evidence to support it. 
I have in front of me a table prepared by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library from the export prices index published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The table shows export meat prices by months for the last 6 months of 1974. For those 6 months the index, starting in July and going through to December, read as follows: 150, 151, 148, 146, 141 and 135. The significance of those figures is that in September the Australian dollar was devalued by 12 per cent. Of course, a devaluation in the terms we are talking about now is comparable to an export subsidy or the remission of this levy. Normally when the currency of the exporting country is devalued we would expect prices to rise by something less than the full extent of the devaluation. This depends substantially on whether it is a buyer's market or a seller's market. At that time, when wheat was being sold on a seller's market, wheat export prices moved up by almost the full 12 per cent. Meat exports on the other hand were facing a buyer's market at that time, as they are now. What happened to meat export prices? The index in August was 1 5 1 and in September it was 148. If the devaluation had been effective in terms of boosting returns in Australian dollars to Australian exporters, the price would have increased after the September devaluation. In fact, it fell to 146 in October, to 141 in November and to 135 in December. 
I am not suggesting, by reading those figures, that the devaluation was a reason for the subsequent fall in the index of export meat prices; but that table does demonstrate quite decisively that devaluation in those particular marketing conditions was utterly ineffective in terms of boosting the Australian producers' returns as, indeed, while the same marketing conditions prevail, the remission of this export levy, is likely to be ineffective. In other words, what this economy-minded Government is proposing to do is to provide over a full financial year $20m, most of which will accrue to foreign buyers. This interpretation was substantially conceded by the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  in his closing address on this matter in the House of Representatives.  Mr Sinclair  said: 
There is no guarantee that the various people along the chain from the meat exporter back to the producer will not absorb some of the charge. However, the reason put forward for the lifting of the charge was to minimise the risk of the charge not being passed back to the producers. 
I do not know what that means. I will repeat that sentence. I studied it for about half an hour and I do not know what it means. However, I will read it again: 
However, the reason put forward for the lifting of the charge was to minimise the risk of the charge not being passed back to producers. 
It is gobbledegook. More significantly,  Mr Sinclair  said later: 
On each occasion I have spoken on the measure I have emphasised that we look to those who at the moment might be able to take the benefits of the charge- that is, the exportersnot to use it in an export promotion, not to absorb additional wage charges for other imposts through it, but to pass it back to the producer so that the industry itself can survive. 
Of course, the operative phrase is: 'we look to those who at the moment might be able to take the benefit of the charge'. The Government expresses a pious hope that, to whatever degree Australian exporters benefit from this measure, that benefit will be passed back to the producers who are being used as human propaganda by the Government to justify this measure. The Government hopes the money will be passed back. The Government can provide absolutely no guarantee that the money will be passed back. Experience, the IAC assessment and  Mr Sinclair's  own freely expressed doubts reveal that it is highly unlikely that all of the money will be passed back to the producers. Meanwhile, the major recommendations in the IAC report continue to be ignored by this Government. They are recommendations which are aimed directly at the problem, instead of indirectly. 
The doubts that  Mr Sinclair  has conceded regarding the distribution of this piece of Government largesse are, of course, not shared by his more simple-minded National Country Party colleagues.  Mr Sinclair  has the benefit of sound departmental advice on these matters.  His  National Country Party colleagues have the benefit of their instinctive seat of the pants sort of agricultural fundamentalism. For example, the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  stated quite categorically: 
That $20m will be returned to the pockets of the Australian producers to help them to live up to the quality of life which they rightly expect. 
Of course, this was contradicted by his own  deputy  leader,  Mr Sinclair,  when he said: 
There is no guarantee that the various people along the chain from the meat exporter back to the producer will not absorb some of the charge. 
I have no doubt that when the National Country Party senators in this place follow me in speaking on this Bill they will repeat the simplistic announcement that was sprouted by the honourable member for Darling Downs in the House of Representatives on 3 March instead of the somewhat more sophisticated and realistic assessment conceded by his Party's  deputy  leader. I think it is ironic for members of the Australian Labor Party to be lectured on this subject by members of the National Country Party in another place. They claim to be genuine farmers. Most of the ones I know have not been farmers for about 20 years and have city residences, or, in the case of Queensland have Gold Coast residences and have telegrams sent from the Gold Coast up to Mt Isa and places like that- all the little places in outback Queensland.  Mr Katter  stated in Mt Isa today - 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Does he know that Borthwick's Albany export meat works has, at present, an inadequate number of meat inspectors? I understand it has only 19 inspectors instead of a full staff of 24 inspectors. Have similar deficiencies been reported from other export meat works? What plans, if any, does the Government have to ensure that an adequate number of meat inspectors are available at all times? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. The Minister may recall that I gave some advance notice of this matter to his office yesterday. Will the 40 per cent investment allowance- I assume it is for an expenditure in excess of $ 1 ,000- apply to expenditure on farm water storages for irrigation and equipment such as pumps, motors and pipes which are used for irrigation? 
The purpose of this Bill, as outlined in the second reading speech of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  is to provide loans to three States to enable fruit canneries to increase the interim payments to growers for the 1974-75 crop- that is, the crop which was harvested about a year ago. The problem which provoked this legislation is a hangover- that Friedmanite term should appeal to members of the Liberal and National Country Parties- from the wild binge of the 1960s, a period in which the production base of the fruit industry was expanded wildly and recklessly under a host of incentives and with the encouragement of Liberal and Country Party governments both State and Federal. It is patently dishonest to assert, as the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  did in a Press release of 22 January 1976, that the problems of the fruit industry were induced by the actions of the Labor Government either in 1975 or in the previous 2 years. 
The fruit industry presents us with a classic case of surplus capacity, of an industry which sells on a 2-tiered or 2-price market and which faces rapidly diminishing marginal returns for the product which it must sell overseas. It was inevitable that this situation would arise sooner or later. Throughout the decade of the 1960s there was a steady increase in the production base for fruit growing. In that decade the area of irrigated orchards increased from 1 20 000 acres to 180 000 acres, much of this expansion occurring in the Goulburn Valley of Victoria, where the current problem is most severe. That that expansion in the 1960s is the original cause of the problems confronting the industry today has been conceded in the debate on this Bill in the House of Representatives, both by the honourable member for Forrest,  Mr Drummond,  and, in somewhat more explicit terms, the honourable member for Murray,  Mr Lloyd,  whose electorate encompasses probably the major fruit growing area of Australia. 

 Mr Lloyd attempted to exonerate the Liberal and Country Party governments of the 1960s from blame for this situation by claiming that  Sir John  McEwen as far back as 1965 issued a warning.  Mr Mr Lloyd  said, referring to  Sir John: 
. after Britain's second unsuccessful attempt to join the European Economic Community, he warned the canning fruit industry of the danger of increased plantings. 
While it may be true that  Sir John  McEwen did so warn the canning fruit industry at that time, it is equally true that the Federal Government, of which  Sir John  was a member, encouraged the expansion of orchard plantings and the production of fruit, both directly and indirectly. The Government encouraged this expansion because it provided taxation incentives which were explicitly designed to expand the entire agricultural production base, and this inevitably had an effect on fruit growing. National governments also were providing substantial amounts of finance for the extension of irrigation schemes, particularly in the Goulburn Valley. 
In the debate in the other place on 18 March  Mr Lloyd  said: 
The closer settlement policies of the Victorian Government at that time also were contrary to the warnings given by the Federal Government. 
Taken in isolation, that statement is also true. It draws attention to the problems which confront any national government in assuming its responsibility for national agricultural policies, especially as they affect the export industries, when it is unable to obtain co-operation with or compliance from the State governments. I find it difficult to reconcile the facts and the underlying sentiments in  Mr Lloyd's  statements with the obsessions within the present Liberal-National Country Party Government. It has an obsessive desire to allow the 6 States to pull in 6 different directions, and each of those directions is different from the one which is perceived by the national Government, which is charged with the prime responsibility of setting a rational course to follow. While  Mr Lloyd  has correctly drawn attention to the role played by the Victorian Government in ultimately inducing this crisis, he has, of course, neatly sidestepped the fact that the Federal Government of the day, by the provision of irrigation water at well below true market cost and by the provision of taxation incentives designed to expand the agricultural production base, also must be held to be partially responsible. 

 Senator Cotton's answer to a question which I asked only half an hour ago reveals that, in fact, the Federal Government, with its new investment allowance policies, still provides the taxation incentives which can, and no doubt will, be used to increase the area of irrigated orchard. We are in the ludicrous, absurd position where a government is providing, with one hand, financial incentives through the tree-pull compensation scheme to eliminate unwanted orchards and, with the other hand, taxation incentives which, inter alia, will encourage the planting of new orchards in some areas and the installation in other areas of irrigation equipment which will substantially increase production from existing orchards. 
The market structure of the fruit industry is parallel with that of many minor Australian agricultural industries. We sell on a 2-tiered market. Through what may be described as a gentleman's agreement, the Australian canneries have entered into a collusive marketing arrangement under which they sell at agreed or administered prices within Australia. Depending on the type and quantity of fruit, the portion of total output sold on the domestic market varies from between one-third and two-thirds. Generally, more than 50 per cent of total production is exported. Statistics are not yet available but in the current season and perhaps in the last season the percentage sold on the domestic market may well have risen to a figure above 50 per cent- perhaps as high as 60 per cent. In broad terms, roughly half the output is sold on the domestic market at higher prices and roughly half the output is exported to overseas markets at very much lower prices. Very recently there has been a tendency for this second half of production which would normally be designated for export to accumulate as unsold stocks within Australia. A similar dual pricing arrangement or 2-tiered or multi-tiered market structure applies for butter, skim milk powder, eggs, normally for sugar and for a number of other agricultural products. A moment's reflection should reveal that in this sort of marketing situation any increase in output increases the proportion of the product which must be sold on the lower priced overseas market. Inevitably this must reduce the average return to the producer. It also induces pressures in other directions either to extort a higher price from the captive domestic market in order to cover the increasing losses on an increasing volume of low priced exports or to obtain financial assistance from governments to maintain returns to producers at higher levels. 
The old assertion which is valid in a truly free market situation, if ever in fact there is a truly market situation, that increased output of a commodity and expansion of the production base equals lower prices for consumers is stood on its head in this situation. In fact, an increase in output certainly will not lead to lower prices to consumers but is likely, through the juggling of prices on the domestic and overseas markets, to increase prices paid by domestic consumers. When I inquired some time ago it was not possible to obtain from official sources the statistics of price relativities between the export market and the domestic market. The Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library, in response to a request from me in 1974, made this statement: 
Canned Fruits. Details of returns to canners are not available for export sales. Neither the Department of Agriculture nor the Australian Canned Fruits Board have ever compiled these data. Australian canned fruit prices are set at competitive levels in all export markets and because the degree of competition varies in different markets the net return to Australian canners differs according to the proportions sold in the various overseas markets. However, the main problem appears to be that most canned fruits are exported at less than the equivalent domestic prices and could become subject to anti-dumping duties under the terms of the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs if this fact was widely publicised. Australian canned pears have already had antidumping duties imposed in the United States market. Authorities associated with canned fruit exports are therefore reluctant to provide the information to answer your question. 
The use of the word 'reluctant' appears to be somewhat euphemistic. It seems that information of the type requested is denied. Nevertheless, the quotation is useful in that it authenticates and confirms the 2-tiered structure of the market and the fact that the domestic consumer to some extent carries the losses on low priced exports. As a result of this legislation, the efforts of the domestic consumers will be supplemented by this loan. 
Because prices on the domestic market are normally administered at higher levels, in times of marketing difficulties or marketing stress there is the danger or the likelihood that Australian canneries will compete on the Australian market with respect to the pricing of their products. In fact, during 1975, and particularly the first half of that year, this is what happened. Let me repeat what the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  had to say in this respect in his second reading speech in the House of Representatives. He said: 
There was a serious 'price-war' between the canneries on the Australian market which lasted for some months in the first half of 1 975, with disruptive effects on that market and a marked reduction in returns from domestic sales. 
Unfortunately the Minister did not state- I have not been able to find it out at this stage- what effect the lower domestic prices had on domestic sales. It could be erroneous to assume that because per unit prices for output sold on the domestic market had declined  ipso facto  returns to the entire industry had declined. In fact, it is possible I am in no position to know whether this is a probability because I do not have the information that returns to the whole industry could be increased by increasing the proportion sold on the domestic market at lower prices providing, of course, that the new and lower domestic market price still remains substantially above the normally much lower export parity price. The Minister continued: 
I find such behaviour by canneries most disturbing. 
Some might find it surprising that a senior Minister in a government which purports to be a free enterprise government, which purports to believe in competition between assorted suppliers and which, indeed, according to its rhetoric sees such competition as being crucial to the health and survival of the free enterprise system, should find such competition disturbing. One would have thought that a government committed to the principles of free enterprise and competition would applaud such competition between Australian canned fruit producers to increase or to optimise their shares of the domestic market regardless, of course, of the damaging effects such a price war may have on the canneries themselves, their employees or the suppliers of the raw materials- in this case, the fruit growers. 
It is indeed surprising that the Government which purports to be committed to the competitive free enterprise system, should find that disturbing. Many people would think it is surprising. Those, of course, who know that doublethink and double-speak are standard attributes of most Liberal and Country Party governmentsparticularly the Fraser Governmentwould be less than surprised. It is typical of their attitude about a whole range of issues. They purport to believe in a particular policy or support a particular ideology but, in fact, many of their actions and their specific statements of belief contradict their philosophical position. The general philosophical record of the present Government, as it has actually emerged, appears to be that this Government has no objection in principle to government intervention in economic affairs. What it does appear to object to is government intervention of a type which provides for a more equal distribution of wealth and income. The present Government's policy record so far indicates that it believes that government intervention should be directed towards increasing the inner quality of distribution of wealth and income. 
The legislation currently before the Parliament cannot be regarded as anything more than a short term palliative. I do not believe that any honourable senator opposite would seriously dispute this. The real problem in the industry is one of excess supply relative to the level of effective demand. It was claimed by an assortment of Government supporters in the House of Representatives that, in fact, the problems of the industry could be found entirely in a fairly high rate of inflation in Australia, rapidly rising wages within the industry and exchange rates both between Australia, Britain and other European countries and between South Africa, Britain and other European countries. While all these factors have had a short term influence, in total the picture which they reveal is that the exporting sector of the Australian fruit industry, as distinct from the sector of the industry which is supplying the domestic market, is rapidly losing and has long been losing whatever comparative advantage it may once have possessed. Rising wages, exchange rate variations and so on are symptoms rather than causes. 
The basic cause is that the industry is losing and has long been losing its comparative advantage because Australia has a relatively high wage structure and many of our competitors are situated geographically in a more favourable position. That geographic advantage has become more and more important as shipping costs have continued to increase at a higher rate than costs generally. Obviously it was apparent even to  Sir John  McEwen, if  Mr Lloyd's  statement is correct, as far back as 1965 that these realities existed and when- even in 1965 it was quite obvious that it was when and not if- Great Britain joined the European Economic Community the problem would be intensified. All those things have happened. One could give  Sir John  something close to full marks for his perception. One must give him and the Government of which he was a senior member very much less than full marks for the actions which they took in relation to the need which  Sir John  had perceived. The actions of the government of the day were in conflict with the perceived need as expressed by  Sir John  McEwen. 
In the longer term the Government will have to visualise some way in which overseas demand will effectively increase. This could be either by a permanent policy or by a fixed policy of making fruit available to underprivileged people or people in other parts of the world who have nutritional problems at concessional rates or on the basis of gift. Something like this will have to be done unless something which cannot be foreseen emerges. It is apparent that the only real solution for the problems of the Australian fruit industry is to bring supply and domestic market demand more effectively into balance. In other words, the industry will have to contract to a level somewhere very much closer to the quantity which is demanded on the domestic market. In conclusion I shall move to the motion for the second reading the same amendment as was moved by my colleague,  Mr Keating,  in the House of Representatives. I move: 
At the end of the motion add the words: but the Senate is of the opinion that: (a) the problems of the canned fruit industry are a legacy of the overexpansion of the production base fostered by successive Liberal and Country Party Governments throughout the 1960s, and (b) the Government should consider immediately the Australian Industry Development Corporation report handed down in September 1975, with u view towards significant rationalisation of this industry to prevent further hardship to growers and their families'. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman Is the amendment seconded? 
The Australian Labor Party is not opposing this legislation. I shall not speak for more than a few minutes. This Bill is an interim measure only, pending the receipt and consideration of the final Industries Assistance Commission's report on the dried fruits industry which, I understand, is expected within the next few weeks. This Bill has elements in common with the previous Bill in that the products of the dried fruits industry- sultanas, raisins and currantsas with canned fruits, are normally sold on the domestic market at prices considerably higher than the export market prices. In the 5 years from 1 969 to 1 973 export prices, although they fluctuated between the different commodities from year to year, generally were 50 per cent to 60 per cent of Australian domestic prices. In 1 974, as a result of a shortage of supplies normally obtained from Turkey and Greece, export prices moved to very high levels and the Australian domestic price and the export price were roughly comparable. Incidentally, I understand that in the most recent season the traditional price relationships have been reinstated in that the Australian domestic price is likely to be 50 to 60 per cent higher than the export parity price. 
Since it has that in common with the canned fruit industry which was dealt with in the previous Bill, it follows, therefore, that the greater the volume of production- other things being equal- the lower the return to growers will be. It is important to stress once again that this is a reality with a number of Australian agricultural industries and a number of commodities. Under the standard laws of the free market, increased supply and increased output equals lower prices to the domestic consumer but, in fact, increased supply in this case tends to result in higher prices to the domestic consumer as the marketing authorities attempt to recoup losses from an increasing volume of export sales. On occasions, it calls for and receives action on the part of government to compensate producers for the additional losses incurred in the increasing volume of low priced exports. 
Despite the sometimes inflammatory rhetoric which we hear about the causative factors of the problems of this industry and the canned fruit industry, sometimes it is simplistically suggested that it is due solely to inflation or to the level of Australian wages. The followers of Milton Friedman who, I understand, includes the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and many of his colleagues, ought to understand this argument since it is explicitly spelt out by Milton Friedman. If a particular country has a higher level of wage increases than the country with which it normally trades and if exchange rates are flexible, then inflation affects an exporting industry only in the short term. In other words, if the inflation rate in a particular country is higher than in the countries with which it normally trades, before very long an appropriate adjustment of the exchange rate will compensate those industries which, in the short term, suffer from a higher rate of inflation. So, we need to look much further than that very superficial and simplistic analysis. The reality is that this industry and the canned fruit industry, which was the subject of the previous Bill, are losing their comparative advantages. It is not something that has started in the last few years; it started at least in the 1960s and possibly as far back as the 1950s. The industries themselves and governments will ignore that reality at their ultimate cost and to their ultimate peril. 
The sentiments that the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  has expressed today and on other occasions I think could fairly be described as paternalistic sentiments from government towards industry and, therefore, I would think very difficult to reconcile with the Randian sentiments which are sometimes expressed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm 
Fraser) and which I understand constitute the guiding philosphy of this present Government. Whilst those paternalistic sentiments are not particularly disconcerting in the short term, if the argument that because an industry is in trouble we should support it and if its troubles are progressively becoming more intense because it is losing its comparative advantages we should support it, ultimately the problems that are generated by that denial of reality or refusal to recognise reality will become more intense and more severe and suffering will be inflicted upon the people who will be victims of those changes when ultimately a very drastic adjustment has to be made and perhaps made in unfavourable circumstances. It does have potential dangers in the long term. 
In conclusion, I make the point that if that view were carried to its absolute or absurd limits, we would still be making horse-drawn buggies because the buggy industry was temporarily in trouble. The Opposition will not be opposing this Bill, recognising, as we do, that it is an interim measure. We trust that before the end of this calendar year the Government will have introduced appropriate legislation to cover this industry in the longer term. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 1 refer to the Prime Minister's electoral broadcast of 21 March in which he stated that the Government was studying a system for personal tax indexation. He went on to say that this would stop a government raising its revenue without telling the people what it was doing and so would make governments honest again. He said that if governments want to raise taxation they will have to say so. I ask: Is it not a very simple exercise to adjust a taxation schedule to offset any rate of inflation? If so, will the Government fully index personal taxation in the 1 976 Budget? If not, why not? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I draw his attention to a statement made by the Prime Minister in reply to a question in the House of Representatives last Thursday that the famed tax reforms of the previous Treasurer resulted in an additional $2,600m being taken from the taxpayers of Australia. Do present estimates suggest that tax collections will increase by $2, 600m this year, as the Prime Minister claimed, or is the estimated increase now about $800m which means, in real terms, that there will be no increase at all? 
I was touched an hour ago by the concern shown by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and  Senator Wright  for historical accuracy, even though there seemed to be considerable disagreement between the honourable senators. In the first instance  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack seemed to suggest that Professor Geoffrey Sawer, whose article was published in today's  Canberra Times,  was the epitome of virtue and approached infallibility in matters of historic interpretation whereas  Senator Wright  seemed to suggest that he believed that Professor Sawer should be impeached because he had cast aspersions upon a member of the judiciary. I notice that  Senator Wright  is sensitive to any suggestions of impropriety against any person connected with the legal profession. 
I wish their concern for historical accuracy was contagious in the Government parties. In particular, I wish it would infect the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, who in his now celebrated speech last Sunday to the Victorian State Council of the Liberal Party, referred yet again to Australia having the highest inflation rate in its history. Again I draw the attention of the Senate to a table which I had incorporated in  Hansard  last month during my speech in the AddressinReply debate. It was not my table. It was prepared by the Parliamentary Library from statistics which are available to any Australian citizen who cares to inquire from the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The table shows that the highest rate of inflation ever recorded in Australia was under the Menzies-Fadden Government in the 1949-52 period. 
I wish the professed concern for historical accuracy which was expressed by  Senator Wright  and  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack this afternoon would infect the Leader of their Party. I wish also that it would infect the Prime Minister with respect to his comments about the increases in personal taxation during the financial year covered by the Budget which was introduced last year by the Australian Labor Party Treasurer,  Mr Hayden.  I raised this matter at question time. 
I mentioned the Prime Minister's statement last Thursday that the famed tax reforms of the previous Treasurer resulted in an additional $2,600m being taken from the taxpayers of Australia. Of course there is a grammatical error in that statement. The Prime Minister has used the past tense. That is not applicable in this context. We could forgive the Prime Minister his grammatical error if he would only get his figures correct. 
The fact is that, on the most recent estimate, the increase in personal income tax collection for this year will be of the order of $800m to $900m and not the $2,600m which the Prime Minister claimed as recently as last Thursday. Of course this figure was incorporated in the original estimates presented in the Budget papers. We could perhaps forgive the Prime Minister for his grammatical and arithmetical errors if he would not insist on claiming that the taxation collection will increase by $2,600m this financial year whilst claiming, simultaneously, that the Budget deficit will not be $2.8 billion- which was estimated in the Budget papers- but will be of the order of $4.5 billion. The fact that personal taxation collections seem likely to be $ 1,700m lower than was forecast in the Budget is the direct cause of the increase in the estimated Budget deficit. If the Prime Minister insists on citing figures which suit him in one respect, at least he ought to be honest enough to acknowledge that they demolish his case in the other respect. 
My original reason for speaking in this debate was to express my grave concern over the economic policies which are being followed by this Government. In particular, I refer to the Prime Minister's well-known propensity to regurgitate the pre-Keynsian economic clap-trap which he has picked up from Ayn Rand and such notable economic dinosaurs as George M. Humphrey and others. He draws a simplistic and erroneous analogy between the Budget of a nation and the budget of a household. This is a favourite theme used by  Mr Fraser.  He returned to it again as recently as 14 March 1976 in a talk when he referred to our national household budget being out of order. These grave doubts about the Prime Minister's grasp of the most fundamental economic principles must, of course, have been aggravated in the mind of anyone who read his address to the State Council of the Liberal Party delivered last Sunday or the very excellent review and critique of that address which was published in the  Australian Financial Review  yesterday. 

 Mr Fraser continues to refer to the necessity for shrinkage in the public sector in order that the private sector may have room to expand. One would have thought that anyone with a nodding acquaintance with crucial economic statistics would have realised that there is room for a considerable expansion in the private sector simply by employing the resources- both human and otherwise- which currently are lying idle. Contraction of the public sector is nol a pre-condition to expansion of the private sector, whether that be desirable or not. 
The Prime Minister also put forward the quite astounding proposition that although the 1976 Budget will be what he calls a tough Budget it will be tough on governments and not on people. I am not sure precisely what that means. Perhaps Ministers opposite will enlighten us. Does it mean that Government Ministers will forgo their ministerial allowances? That would be something that would be financially tough upon governments. Does it mean that this present Government plans to reduce considerably social welfare payments, payments to the States, payments for construction of capital works, or does it mean something else? The important point is that governments are not voracious alien monsters which simply consume and burn money. They are not some modern Australian Moloch. Governments redistribute, in one way or another, all of the money which they collect. Therefore, if government expenditure is substantially reduced it follows that the receipt of funds, either from direct transfer payments or in payment for services rendered to the Government, must decline. Funds received by people will decline in a 1 to 1 ratio to the decline in Government expenditure. 
Finally, and perhaps most remarkably of all,  Mr Fraser  stated that consumers must overcome their unfounded reservations about the future and that when a family buys a washing machine or a new car it is providing jobs- a statement which is true in itself, I suppose. Implicit in that statement is a suggestion by the Prime Minister, of all people, that this new car or new washing machine to which he refers is really a superfluous piece of equipment and that the consumer he has in mind does not need a new car or a new washing machine. Indeed, if the consumer needed such an item and had the money to purchase it, it would not be necessary for a government or for any hidden persuader to persuade him to buy it. Ironically,  Mr Fraser  is pointing himself towards the destination at which Galbraith arrived nearly 20 years ago when he asserted that production of goods, of things, of commodities, at the margin was important not because the goods themselves had any social value but because they provided jobs and incomes. If one accepts that that is the direction in which the Prime Minister is headed it must, of course, lead logically to a re-assessment of the Government's priorities and, in particular, the Prime Minister's stated priorities. 
The Prime Minister continually states that what Australia needs is an increase in the supply of goods, of commodities, of things sold in the market place or the productive sector, as he prefers to call it, and that we really need an increase in the quantity of goods and commodities sold in the market place and a decrease in the magnitude of services provided by governments. If  Mr Fraser  is acknowledging that at the margins commodities such as motor cars and washing machines have no social value but are important only because they generate employment and incomes, then he has demolished the entire base, the rationale, of his economic policies- that is, that we must transfer resources from the services provided by governments to the production of goods sold in the market place. If  Mr Fraser  is acknowledging that then his rationale for that policy falls to the ground. 
At a somewhat higher level of sophistication than that exhibited by the Prime Minister in these matters we have, of course, the attachment of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to Friedmanismthe simplistic belief that the level of prices can be controlled entirely by regulating the money supply, granted with a time lag- that as the money supply increases by X per cent then prices will increase by X per cent. What that simplistic proposition, in stating the simple monetary equation that the volume of money multiplied by the velocity of circulation always equals the prices of goods times the quantity of goods, overlooks is that the velocity, prices and quantity are all variables. Friedmanism asserts that a change in the volume of money-we will ignore for the present the immense difficulties in adequately defining what is money- will automatically be offset on the other side of the equation by a corresponding change in prices. It can of course also be offset, as a moment's reflection or two ought to reveal, by a change in the velocity of circulation or by a change in the quantity of goods produced. 
As has been noted recently, it is extremely rare that a particular economic theory- an economic doctrine perhaps would be the more appropriate term to apply to Friedmanism- has the opportunity to be tested in the real world. Friedmanism has been tested in Chile in the last 2 years. The results of this application of Friedmanism were summarised in an article in the  Australian Financial Review  on 22 March where it was shown that the annualised rate of inflation for January and February 1976 was 21 per cent higher than it was in 1975, that unemployment was running at 1 6 per cent and that the gross domestic product in the last year had declined by 12 per cent. That, in one part of the world, has been the final result of the application of Friedmanite theories to which the present Treasurer of Australia seems to be totally committed. If the Friedmanite theories are applied in Australia one could confidently expect a similar economic result. 
The Government's self-proclaimed strategy for economic recovery revolves around what it calls an investment led recovery. It is noteworthy- and I do note- that the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  at least, among the senior Ministers in this Government, has expressed grave reservations about the fundamental accuracy of the investment led recovery theory. In the  Australian Financial Review  on 1 March,  Senator Cotton  was reported as having said: 
I, Cotton, am a person who believes Australia can only recover if the consumer begins to move again. 
It perhaps could be said- I guess we should be grateful for these small mercies- that  Mr Fraser  at least partially has now come around to sharing  Senator Cotton's  view, hence the Prime Minister's reference in his speech of last Sunday to the need for people to go out to buy new cars and new washing machines. 

 Mr Fraser seems to be endorsing the view expressed by  Senator Cotton  and by a great many people on the other side of politics to  Senator Cotton  that an economic recovery can be achieved successfully only following an expansion of consumer demand. However, whatever reservations  Mr Fraser  may have now about the wisdom of the simplistic investment-led recovery, the facts are that the Government is proceeding with a policy, and within the next couple of weeks will be enacting a policy, which incorporates that investment-led recovery theory. The rationale for the policy, which of course consists mainly of the introduction of a 40 per cent investment allowance for new capital expenditure, is that investors will be encouraged by the existence of this investment allowance to invest in buildings, plant and equipment earlier than they would otherwise have done; or perhaps that they will be encouraged to invest in plant and buildings of a type which they would not have invested in at all were it not for the existence of this 40 per cent investment allowance. Consequently, it is argued by those who follow the theory that employment will be generated in what economists call the 'capital goods industries', that is the industries which supply the basic machinery, the bricks, cement, timber and so on that is used by businesses in the form of buildings, plant and equipment. 
Commonsense ought to suggest rather strongly that, in a situation where manufacturing industry has already a considerable amount of unused capacity- currently estimated, I understand, to be in the aggregate in the vicinity of 20 per cent- businessmen are extremely unlikely to embark upon new investment decisions induced solely by the presence of this investment allowance. A businessman is not likely to embark upon a new or expanded investment program unless he has a reasonable assurance that the ultimate output from the factory will be sold. Of course, businessmen will not be assisted in selling that ultimate output if the Government substantially reduced its own purchases at a time when consumer demand in the private sector is notably deficient. Yet the Government proposes to do precisely that. Also, business is not likely to be fostered by the continual statements of the Prime Minister that the Government is going to get very tough- that life is not meant to be easy. As someone once remarked, this statement says a great deal for the facility for abstract reasoning of the Prime Minister- this western districts squatter, Melbourne Grammar School student and Oxford University graduate Australian with all his experience of those frugal, spartan institutions and then his experience in the Australian Parliament. 
Certainly it is unlikely that the 'life is not meant to be easy ' ethic, which is espoused by  Mr Fraser  but which is not notably practised by him, will encourage final consumers to step up their purchases. Moreover, past experience with the provision of investment allowances, although not granted to the magnitude now contemplated, has failed to reveal any significant changes in the level of investment because of either the introduction of investment allowances or the cancellation of investment allowances. Indeed, that is an empirical conclusion which is wholly compatible with commonsense. At a somewhat deeper and longer term level, the policy of subsidising capital investment in the belief that it will stimulate the demand for labour must be questioned seriously. If capital is to be subsidised by governments and labour is not, it follows automatically that any rational businessman will use greater quantities of capital and lesser quantities of labour than he would have done in a free market situation. Although the investment allowance is not directly responsible for this, we do have a quite recent example of the effect upon the demand for labour of highly capital intensive investment. 
I refer to a question which I asked of  Senator Cotton,  as the Minister representing the Treasurer, on 26 February, concerning the decision taken last October by the Swan Brewery Company Ltd to construct at a cost of more than $50m a new semi-automated brewery at Canning Vale in Perth. As a direct result of this investment in a semi-automated brewery, the company will retrench 350 of its staff- about 35 per cent of the staff employed currently- because that company has moved into a capital intensive type of production with its new factory. Of course, as this decision was made last October, the investment allowance policy of this Government was not responsible for the decision. However, that does leave the Government and its supporters with this residual problem: Although the investment allowance policy had no effect upon the making of the decision, the provision of the 40 per cent investment allowance for this particular company constitutes a gratuitous handout from the Government to the company of the order of $8.5m at current rates of company taxation. An item of investment which the chronology proves was not affected by the investment allowance policy nevertheless will cost the taxpayer in the order of $8.5m through this Government which pretends to be frugal and to be exercising very stringent controls over the expenditure of public money. 
In the longer term, this Government has announced that the 40 per cent investment allowance will apply for the next 28 months, with a period of grace following that, and that a 20 per cent investment allowance will apply for the next 5 years. Since it is such a long term policy, it almost certainly will have a significant effect on the degree of capital intensity in industry. Capital spending will be subsidised by the taxpayer but expenditure on labour will not. Expenditure on labour will be deductible from company taxable income at the rate of 100 per cent and capital expenditure will be deductible from company taxable income for the next  2%  years at the rate of 140 per cent. Therefore it follows that any rational businessman will invest more intensively in capital equipment than he would otherwise have done and that he will do so to the detriment of labour. To the degree that this happens, the Government's policy- the ostensible objective of which is to increase the level of employmentwill be counter productive. 
I want to comment on 2 other items. During the election campaign  Mr Fraser  committed the Government to the introduction of company tax indexation over a 3-year period for depreciation rates on plant and stocks held, and to the introduction of tax indexation for individuals. As in so many other areas, the Government now appears to be preparing to back away from that undertaking. It does so on the spurious ground that there are grave problems in implementing in one year full indexation of personal income tax. There are no such problems. Any person who is reasonably competent in arithmetic and who has access to a fairly limited amount of basic statistics and a pocket calculator could work it out in a couple of hours. It certainly is not beyond the enormous resources which are available to the Government in the Treasury to knock out a schedule to index fully personal income tax for the coming Budget. 
The problem is not that there are any technical difficulties, let alone any insurmountable technical difficulties, in the full implementation of personal tax indexation; the problem is that this Prime Minister wants to use the so-called fiscal drag effects of inflation- which will probably be more significant in this calendar year than in the last- for precisely the reason that he condemns every other government for the last 25 years, namely, that it will constitute an effective increase in the rate of personal taxation without the Government having to legislate for it. I do not particularly blame the Prime Minister for being less honest in that particular respect than governments have been in the last couple of decades. I do blame him for using a spurious excuse for not honouring one of his election promises and for having the audacity to assert that there will be no increases in taxation under a government led by Malcolm Fraser unless the Government explicitly legislates for them. If the Prime Minister is really committed to that belief that it is immoral to increase personal taxation without explicitly legislating for it, let the Prime Minister fully index personal income taxes in the 1976 Budget. If not, may he forever hold his peace. 
Motion (by  Senator Harradine)  negatived: 
That the debate be adjourned and that the adjourned debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
My question, which is directed to  Senator Withers,  the Minister representing the Prime Minister, concerns Western Australia. Since he has a special interest in Western Australia, I would expect him to have some familiarity with the subject. Has the Government of Western Australia sought either direct or indirect Federal financial assistance for the following purposes and, if necessary, I can supply Press references later: A $ 1.5m grant for cyclone damage at Port Hedland; a $3 8m grant to upgrade Western Australia rail services; $6m for Gascoyne water supplies; and a subsidy to maintain the State shipping service to Darwin? Has the Government of Western Australia protested about the 150 per cent increase in the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority charges for 4 north-west ports? Will he find out and tell the Senate when the submissions were received, whether the Federal Government has replied to any of them and, if so, in what terms? 
I shall not speak for long on this Bill, although I fear that the interruption of the debate to allow General Business to proceed will occur in the middle of the few remarks that I intend to make. I think that most of the things that need to be said about the Bill have already been stated by honourable senators in this chamber and by members in the House of Representatives. This piece of legislation grew out of the Australia- Japanese cultural agreement of 1974. It was incubated last year under the previous Labor Government. In fact, it was listed on the notice paper of the House of Representatives on 1 1 November last year. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the House of Representatives, and I think  Senator Withers  in this chamber, said the same thing in introducing the Bill. They described the objective of the Bill in these terms: 
It is the policy of the Government to strengthen, deepen and broaden the relationship which already exists between Australia and Japan. 
That objective is not to be confused with the other somewhat obscure objective of the Prime 
Minister, which was stated last week- to broaden the depth of the quality of life around Australia. 
The purpose of the Bill is to deepen or strengthen the mutual cultural comprehension in the 2 countries through the process of reciprocal education.  Senator Button's  timely remarks drew attention to the fact that the passing of a piece of legislation such as this in the Australian Parliament is no panacea or does not provide any mystical formula for achieving adequate or complete understanding between 2 countries with such dissimilar cultural and historical backgrounds as Australia and Japan. 
It will be difficult to improve communications and understanding between a great number of the people even without having imposed between us and that objective the intemperate comments which are made from time to time by Australian politicians. Apart from the recent remarks of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  which have been referred to at some length by  Senator Button  and which were referred to at some length by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  in the House of Representatives yesterday, we in Australia also have to carry the burden of politicians such as the Premier of Queensland who, as far back as 8 November 1974, asserted that unless the Japanese were willing to buy beef from Queensland he would cut off the supply of Queensland coal to Japan. Not content with that initial effort on 8 November 1974,  Mr BjelkePetersen  followed up with another broadside on 14 February 1975. On the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program  AM on  that date he stated: 
It cannot continue this one way traffic as far as selling justerour minerals here in this State indeed Australia. We, we've got other things and I believe if they need meat and I'm sure they do they should think in terms of their good friends and their good customers in this area where they buy this vast quantity of coal that is so vital to them, that they should think of us to buy our meat, not New Zealand, noter Tasmania- This is all I'm trying to . . . the message I'm trying to get over to them, they, they recognise that they . . . I'm quite sure. 
That, by the way, was a completely accurate transcription of the remarks of the Queensland Premier on that occasion. 
Debate interrupted.  (General Business taking precedence of 
 As I stated before general business intervened in the debate on this Bill last Thursday, I shall not speak for very long. The purpose of the Bill is to promote mutual understanding, cultural co-operation and reciprocal education between Australia and Japan and, in so doing, to deepen the long standing close economic links which exist between our 2 countries. I had mentioned, as  Senator Button  had mentioned before me, that it will not be an easy task to achieve the objectives of this Bill. In seeking those somewhat elusive objectives our efforts could well be sabotaged by such ill considered remarks, such crude threats, as were issued by the Premier of Queensland last year and issued also the year before when in his typically crude and offensive manner he attempted to blackmail the Japanese into accepting Queensland beef as a precondition to being supplied with Queensland coal. In the lucid and succinct prose for which he has become justly noted and justly famous he made this statement: 
It cannot continue this one-way traffic as far as selling just- er- our minerals here in this State indeed Australia. We, we've got other things and I believe if they need meat and I'm sure they do they should think in terms of their good friends and their good customers in this area where they buy this vast quantity of coal that is so vital to them, that they should think of us to buy our meat, not New Zealand, noterTasmaniaThis is all I'm trying to . . . the message I'm trying to get over to them, they, they recognise that they . . . I'm quite sure. 
That was all his own work and all his own words. 
I think it is worth quoting again and again as perhaps one of the most notable examples of the lucidity of the Queensland Premier as well as of the crude manner in which he practises his politician's art, if indeed it could be called that. In seeking the objectives of this Bill no assistance will be rendered by the comments of other people, like those of  Mr Anthony  last week when he suggested that, unless Australia made its mineral resources readily available to the Japanese, the Japanese would be very likely to invade Australia, to launch another military attack. It is almost unbelievable that in 1976 a person who has risen to be  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country could have been so insensitive as to raise that issue, with the attendant dangers of stimulating once again irrational fears not only of Japan but indeed of Asian nations generally. It is hoped that in the last decade or so and in the last 3 years in particular Australia has emerged from that irrational fear and finally adopted a more mature attitude towards the rest of the world. 
One realises, of course, that in making that son of statement  Mr Anthony  is conscious of the personal need that he has to attract attention to himself since it is a matter of common observation to anyone who sits in the House of Representatives or who follows the national Press that the present Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, appears to have a very poor opinion of  Mr Anthony's  skills as a parliamentarian and as a politician. It is a matter of common observation that  Mr Fraser  does not seek any consultation with or advice from  Mr Anthony  when sitting in the House of Representatives and is in the habit of consulting  Mr Anthony's Deputy  Leader,  Mr Sinclair.  In those circumstances one can understand  Mr 
Anthony's fervent desire to attract some attention and to make himself appear to be an important man in the Government. Notwithstanding that very real personal problem that  Mr Anthony  has, it is to be hoped that he will not continue to exacerbate the problems which will inevitably be encountered in the pursuit of the very commendable objectives outlined in this Bill. 
I find it more than a little ironic that  Senator Scott  should describe the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Gietzelt,  and which requires public disclosure of the expenditure of significant amounts of public money as being emotional and therefore to be condemned. I find it particularly surprising that that sort of comment should come from a member of a Party which went into an election campaign 10 years ago with an emotive slogan about the downward thrust of China.  Senator Scott  himself has been talking about such emotive issues as soil health.  Senator Withers  forecast about 3 hours ago that I would be speaking in this debate, and said that I would be criticising the National Country Party as was my wont. I shall certainly be doing that and I assure  Senator Withers  that I shall be extending the breadth of the target somewhat and will include a number of members of his Party including in particular his Leader. 
The Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill 1976, more than any other single piece of legislation, establishes the moral and intellectual bankruptcy of the Fraser Government and of its Leader in particular. The spectacle of a government which preaches austerity ad nauseum, which proclaimed in the GovernorGeneral's Speech opening the Parliament that one of its objectives was to prevent the increasing dependence of individuals on the state, which frequently reasserts that it is about to end the handout mentality, which withdraws financial benefits from pensioners, meal subsidies from children, pharmaceutical benefits from the sick and simultaneously introduces a subsidy from which half the Federal Cabinet will receive a direct financial benefit- the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  himself has been shown to be in receipt in the past of more than $5,000 in one year- must disgust all decent Australians. I believe that it is significant that in the House of Representatives not one of the Ministers who would receive a benefit had the courage to speak on this Bill. They left it to a light-weight Minister supported by a featherweight group of back benchers. 
The Government's intellectual bankruptcy was triumphantly established by the content of the speeches delivered in the House of Representatives by the 1 1 Government speakers who supported this Bill. After the inconsequential second reading speech delivered in the House of Representatives by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey),  in his first paragraph, claimed that this Bill was based on an Industries Assistance Commission report tabled in January 1 975. In fact the report is dated 31 July 1975. There is one factual error. The Bill is not based on the IAC report either, and I will deal with that later. The honourable member then asserted that action had already been taken on aspects of the report on new land farms in Western Australia. I would like to know what action has been taken. I will say a little more about that later. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  then produced a lot of claptrap and rustic romanticism about the health of our soils, as though soil fertility or soil health, whatever that means, was an end in itself. I put to the Government supporters who sit opposite: What is the purpose of having fertile soil? Is fertile soil an end in itself? Surely fertile soil is of value only for that which it will produce. In case some of the members opposite want now to present themselves as latter day trendies, as latter day greenies, and they value this for its mystical qualities, I point out that among other things the payment of a superphosphate bounty has encouraged the destruction of vast areas of natural forest and natural bush much of which in my own State has subsequently been turned into saline wastelands which are polluting the major water supplies in the hills. 
The honourable member for Angas then proceeded to develop an argument which  Senator Scott  touched upon, the argument that because Australian soils are the most phosphorus deficient of any continent we should immediately set about correcting this phosphate deficiency. Implicit in that argument is an attempt to seek a head-on conflict with the principles of comparative advantage. Surely we ought to make an adjustment to the limitations of our environment. Agricultural technology in Australia should be directed towards the most economical use of the resource which is most limited, and that is probably phosphate. I note in passing that a warning very similar to that was given by  Mrs Hylda 
Rolfe who was the presiding Commissioner on the IAC inquiry.  Mrs Rolfe  made the very sensible observation that phosphate was an expensive commodity, that it was scarce on a global scale and that it was becoming scarcer, and therefore Australian farmers should beware of becoming more firmly locked into a superphosphate subterranean clover agricultural technology. She suggested that we should be seeking agricultural technologies less demanding of this scarce and increasingly expensive resource. 
For putting forward that very sensible point of view  Mrs Rolfe  was witch-hunted off the inquiry by members of the National Country Party and by its Leader in particular. Although the Government claims that its action is based upon the IAC report, the IAC report in question is a dissenting report. One of the remaining commissioners,  Mr Robinson,  dissented. Indeed, if  Mrs Rolfe  had remained on the Commission, judging from the type of attitude she had already expressed, it is highly probable that the Commission would have recommended that the bounty remain in limbo. 
Because she was subjected to some of the most vile abuse under parliamentary privilege in the House of Representatives by the honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony). 
-She retired from the inquiry. She was subjected to the most vile abuse for expressing a point of view which ought to have been apparent to anyone with more than a passing interest in the subject and any capacity whatsoever for rational thinking. The honourable member for Angas, to make sure that what he said was not a slip of the tongue, repeated a figure. He stated that wheat yields in Australia had increased from 363 kilograms per hectare in the 1940s. I do not know what relevance that has to the Bill but I feel under some obligation to correct the numerous errors which were made by honourable members on the Government side in the House of Representatives. In fact, the average wheat yield in Australia throughout the 1940s was 850 kilograms per hectare, not 363 kilograms per hectare. 
The honourable member then asserted that 50 per cent of farmers in Australia are heavily in debt. I do not know the source of that assertion. The Green Paper which was brought down 2 years ago showed that approximately 50 per cent of farmers had no debt and that 24 per cent of the remainder had very limited debts- less than $10,000. He then stated, on somewhat firmer grounds, that all but a few farmers today were literally unable to purchase superphosphate or nitrogen. That is a significant statement and I shall return to it later. He was followed by the new honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury). His  error was embodied in the statement that 5 per cent of the work force was engaged in primary production. In fact, the figure is around 8 per cent. He then postulated that sheep numbers had been known to fluctuate wildly in the western division of New South Wales. This is true. He then postulated that this was because superphosphate was never used. 
It does not seem to have occurred to the new honourable member for Eden-Monaro that the non-use of superphosphate and the wild fluctuations in stock numbers in the western division had a common cause, the common cause being that the rainfall is both scanty and unreliable. The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  informed the House of Representatives that rural industries- he used that term interchangeably with agricultural industries- represented the second largest force in the Australian economy behind the great mining industries. I do not know on what he bases that, whether it is the value of output, the percentage of employment or the amount of export income. On any possible basis that I could conceive that statement is wrong. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  stated that he was supporting the Bill on the understanding that it was an interim measure until the phosphate rock from the Duchess deposits was available. He was one of the few honourable members who did not fall into factual error. I suspect that his expectation in relation to the ultimate development of the Duchess deposits, bearing in mind that they are by current standards overwhelmingly low grade ore, is largely wishful thinking. Nevertheless, it was a point of view which had something to commend it.  Mr Short,  who is, I think, the honourable member for Ballaarat, stated that in the 3 years of Labor Government the overall real income of Australian farmers fell by no less than 50 per cent. I think  Mr Short  was once a Treasury official. In that case he ought to have had a more compelling obligation than most honourable members to look at his facts. 
If we look at the year before the Labor Government came into office- I take this to be 1972-73- net farm income in constant dollars was $1,367. It is true that the estimate this year has fallen to $854. But that is not a fall of50 per cent. It is a pity the honourable member said that because he then put forward 2 sensible ideas. Sensible ideas were certainly at a premium on the Government side in the House of Representatives when this Bill was being debated. The honourable member said that there was a need for assistance from the Government in order to help rural industries to adjust to long term economic conditions. I do not think that statement could reasonably be disputed. I shall return to that matter later too. The honourable member then stated: 
It may be that some form of income support scheme would be preferable, both on economic and welfare grounds, to a subsidy on one input such as superphosphate. 
Some of us on this side of politics have been trying to get that message through for many years. I am pleased that it has got through to at least one member of the Liberal Party. He was followed by the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  who referred scathingly to the fact that there were 3 speakers from the Labor side in the House of Representatives compared with 11 speakers from the Government side. The honourable member seems to equate numbers with quality. He also referred to the lack of knowledge displayed by the Opposition regarding this Bill. I thought that tag could well be applied to most of his colleagues. The honourable member proceeded to demonstrate his point by saying that the beef industry depends on superphosphate as do the dairying and fruit industries. He ignored the fact that nearly half the cattle herd of Australia grazes on pasture which has never seen superphosphate. In fact, half a page later he contradicted himself by saying that a lot of beef in Australia is produced without superphosphate. He then repeated a statement which had been made earlier by another honourable member, whose name I have forgotten at the moment, regarding the grazing industry. He stated: 
. many of them - 
That is the farmers-  cannot even afford to buy superphosphate. 
That is true and I shall return to that. The honourable member then postulated that we had a responsibility to produce food to feed the starving world. I shall return to that proposition too. He was helped along by the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  who, by interjection, stated that rural industries represent 65 per cent of our exports. Again, rural industries were equated with agricultural industries. The honourable member for Paterson was wrong. The latest figure is 46 per cent. It was around 50 per cent a few years before that. We then had one of the rare, useful and sensible contributions from a fellow West Australian, the honourable member for Forrest.  Mr Drummond  stressed the need for research into alternative methods of using superphosphate and of applying it in order to secure more efficient usage. He spoke about the need for alternative sources of phosphorous. That was a very sound observation which refuted the rationale for a subsidy. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  said that he would like to build on the solid framework of sound common sense which  Mr Drummond,  the honourable member who had preceded him, had so excellently laid. Unfortunately, the honourable member did not. For 20 minutes the honourable member for Darling Downs harangued the House with his customary gibberish, punctuated by genuflections to the conventional wisdom of the National Country Party of Australia. He gave us such pearls of knowledge as: The application of fertilisers enables more produce to be produced from a given area of land. That must represent the greatest extension of the boundaries of human knowledge since Copernicus established the existence of the solar system. The honourable member said that subsidies for phosphate were consumer subsidies which enabled the Australian people to have access to cheaper foodstuffs. He thereby exhibited his profound ignorance of the prevailing marketing system for agricultural products. The honourable member asserted that his colleagues had made the same claim. In fairness to his colleagues, it ought to be noted that they had not. The honourable member informed the House that for every $ 1 of nitrogen subsidy paid to Queensland grain growers the Taxation Office gained between $3 and $4.  Senator Scott  was on a similar tack about a quarter of an hour ago. If that is true, Queensland grain growers must, by definition, be grossly incompetent farm managers. I shall return to that subject later. 
The honourable member said that for every kilogram of nitrogen applied there was a return of an extra seven or eight kilograms of grain. In saying that he displayed his ignorance of the phenomenon of diminishing returns. He told the House that Queensland wheat attracted a premium of $130.50 per tonne. That is the total price, not the premium. Finally, the honourable member advanced the highly original proposition that high levels of soil moisture during the ripening period boosted the protein content of wheat. He was followed by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  who delivered a dissertation on the relationship between soil acidity, lime and superphosphate. The relevant conclusion, which he obviously failed to grasp, is that in some situations lime can be a substitute for superphosphate. In acid soils, it makes the existing phosphorus more readily available in which case perhaps something could be said for subsidising lime but nothing could be said for subsidising superphosphate. He repeated the usual litany about farmers never having had it so bad as they have had it in the last 3 years. He incorporated a table into  Hansard  which showed the net farm income in real terms- that is in constant 1966-7 dollars- in the last 3 years to be $ 1,236m compared to $ 1,006m for the 3 preceding years of Liberal-Country Party government. With logic and integrity of that calibre governing the delicate operation of Patrick Partners it is no wonder that there were financial problems. 
Neither in the Minister's second reading speech nor in his reply did he make any serious attempt to justify the Bill which will appropriate and dissipate during its lifetime nearly $50m. The arguments put forward by the Minister and his colleagues were pathetic and puerile. At the very least, they might have consulted some of the more substantial submissions received by the Industries Assistance Commission and, in particular, the submission presented by the Australian Wool Growers and Graziers Council in 1975. Although that submission contains a number of highly improbable assumptions and some serious fallacies of reasoning, it does at least make the most of whatever can be made for paying a bounty. If Government members who have spoken in support of this measure, either through their own ignorance of the subject or some other personal inadequacy, were unable to present a decent case they might at least have asked  Mr Trebeck  to brief them. 
Many attempts to justify this bounty have been put forward. With one partial exception all are invalid and frequently contradictory. The Government has been running away from the welfare argument. It tends to deny that there is a welfare intention underpinning this Bill. Notwithstanding that, it still proceeds to allege  ad nauseam  that things are very tough down on the farm and, therefore, the Government has to do something about it. It still hammers that particular point. It is not surprising that the Government should run away from any attempt to justify this measure on welfare grounds. It is well known, of course, that all agricultural subsidies are distributed regressively - 
-They are distributed regressively  Sir Magnus,  in such a way that the greatest financial benefits go to people who tend to have the highest incomes and minimal financial benefits go to people who tend to have low incomes. In this particular case, the distribution appears to be even more regressive. Figures supplied by the South Australian Department of Agriculture- they were submitted originally to the IAC- show that 6.6 per cent of the recipients of the bounty received 46 per cent of the money, whilst 26 per cent of the money was distributed to 74 per cent of the farmers who received it. A temporary bounty is likely to be more regressive still for this reason. There is the Government's own costing estimate, implicit in which is a superphosphate consumption of only 2.5 million tons. The peak sales of superphosphate - 

 -If Senator Sir Magnus Cormack wants to read my submission to the IAC, I will give it to him. These facts are contained in that submission. I stated it 12 months ago. Implicit in that estimate is the assumption that only 2.5 million tons of superphosphate will be sold in a full financial year. Maximum sales were 6.2 million tons in 1974. The maximum consumption was, no doubt, considerably less than that. Nevertheless, it represents a halving of the level of sales in 1973 which was the trend that had been established at that time. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  himself just one year and 2 days ago went on the public record in Perth as saying: 
Restoration of the bounty at the old rate would not increase the use of superphosphate by one ton. 
Why would it not increase the use of superphosphate? Incidentally, the same prophecies have been made by Pivot Superphosphates, the leading manufacturer in Victoria and by  Mr Smith,  the Victorian Minister for Agriculture. They were cited in the rural journal  The Land  on 19 and 26 February. All of these people agree that it will not increase the consumption of superphosphate. If that assertion is taken at its face value, it has destroyed utterly the rationale for paying a subsidy. I remind the Senate of the words of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who said:   all but a few farmers today are . . . unable to afford to purchase either superphosphate or nitrogen . . . 

 His colleague, the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  when referring to the. grazing industries, said: 
. many of them cannot even afford to buy superphosphate. 
In my view all of those statements are exaggerations but only slight exaggerations. Basically they are correct. Most of the superphosphate used in Australia in the past has been applied to pastures because returns in the grazing industry, with the partial exception of wool, are now at low levels. This is because people who are solely dependent upon grazing this year will have low incomes and also because it is possible to withhold superphosphate from pastures for one or two seasons without any drastic effects on the pasture composition or production. Because of these factors, it is highly unlikely that these people will be buying much superphosphate within the lifetime of this bounty. It will not help those people very much. The benefit will constitute a gratuitous handout to the affluent wheatgrowers who also use a lot of superphosphate for pastures, as well as the Cabinet Ministers which  Senator Scott  and a few others seem to have overlooked. 
The Government can find $50m for this purpose in the agricultural field. I have mentioned many of the other rather puny benefits which the Government has been mean enough to withdraw. I will forget about those for the moment and relate my remarks to agriculture only. What has the Government done towards implementing the recommendations of the IAC in its beef industry report to provide sustenance loans for beef producers who are non-viable? What has the Government done about that? Nothing! What has the Government done with respect to the Western Australian new land farms report? It is true that the IAC Report on New Land Farms was received some time ago. It is also true that the report severely castigated the State Government of Western Australia in the 1960s- that was the Brand-Court Government or, as it was officially known, the Brand-Nalder Government. The IAC said: 
The Commission has no evidence that the State Government planned comprehensively for the financial needs of settlers, and land was released in some areas where development and farming alternatives were unproven. 
That was what the Brand-Court Government did in the 1 960s. The IAC came to that conclusion. It continued and laid the primary responsibility for the plight of these farmers at the feet of the State Government of Western Australia. It said: 
For those new land farmers who will be unable to adjust their farm enterprises to the new conditions, the Commission considers there is a need for re-establishment assistance. The 
Western Australian Government should be primarily responsible for provision of this assistance. 
In other sections of the report the IAC referred to the difficulties which had been inflicted upon these settlers by the introduction of wheat quotas in 1969- not introduced by a Labor government, I might add. It may have been necessary to introduce wheat quotas at that time given the state of the industry but quotas actually applied were more restrictive than they needed to be. Why? Some of the people who still sit in the benches across the aisle and their friends asserted that they had to stop the downward thrust of China and they would not recognise China. Therefore, for 3 years we sold not a ton of wheat to China. That was a crippling blow from which many of these new land farmers never did recover. The IAC report brings that out too. So the Commission placed the primary responsibility on the State Government of Western Australia and the secondary responsibility on the Federal Government. Neither of those LiberalCountry Party Governments have taken any steps towards implementing the recommendations of the Commission. They can find $50m for gratuitous handouts which will accrue overwhelmingly to the rich but they have nothing to spend on those recommendations. 
Another attempted justification is that the payment of a bounty will increase production or productivity. Usually the terms seem to be used interchangeably but I shall explain the difference between them shortly. That argument, of course, is totally eroded by the assertions of the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and the Prime Minister himself  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who have said that paying the bounty will not increase the use of superphosphate;  ipso facto  it will not increase either production or productivity. Returning to the difference between the terms production and productivity, production is just a volume- a heap, or an output, if one likes; productivity is the ratio between input and output. There is a difference in the meaning of the 2 terms. Using higher quantities of superphosphate or of any other fertiliser may increase the productivity of land but the productivity of fertiliser, at least after a point, will fall. That is a matter of some importance. Of course, implicit in the repudiated argument that the payment of a bounty will increase production or productivity, is the assumption that it is an unmitigated good to increase production. I find that an astounding proposition to be suggested at a time when the Government has just introduced legislation aimed to cope with chronic excess supplies in the dried fruit industries and the canned fruit industries; when the Government is facing a major disaster in the dairying industry; and when beef has been grossly over-supplied for almost 2 years. The previous Labor Government made more than $300m available to purchase 1.5 million bales of wool because there was no commercial market for that commodity either. Given all those instances, I find it astonishing that it could be suggested that it is an unmitigated good to increase across the board the production of agricultural commodities. 
I recommend to Government senators across aisle that they read the letter which the New South Wales rural economist,  Mr Dalton,  had published in the  Financial Review  today when he quite explicitly stated that the problems of the beef and dairying industries are rooted in surplus supply. 
-I shall get to that,  Sir Magnus.  Please do not be so impatient. I am going to cover the whole spectrum. A variant of the confused production-productivity argument is that the payment of a superphosphate bounty will increase the efficiency of Australian agriculture. Granted, some of the people who use that argument fail to distinguish between technical performance and efficiency. The superphosphate bounty will usually improve technical performance in that higher rates of fertiliser application will produce higher yields. But efficiency is a different concept. Of course, no evidence is produced to back the assertion that the superphosphate bounty will increase efficiency. No consideration whatsoever has been given to balancing the marginal cost of the fertiliser which is applied with the marginal revenue from the commodity which it ultimately produces. 
More importantly, let us assume that Australian farmers do make rational management decisions and that they attempt to equate marginal cost and marginal revenue, both between themselves and between all inputs. If that is true it is axiomatic that any given level of output will be produced at the lowest total cost if all inputs are costed at market prices. If one input is selectively subsidised that input will be over-used relative to all other inputs. To expound the argument that paying a superphosphate bounty will increase agricultural efficiency constitutes an insult to the managerial competence of Australian farmers. 
A slightly more sophisticated version of that argument is that a concept called 'credit rationing' operates and that farmers have only X dollars to spend on fertiliser; therefore they can purchase only Y amounts of fertiliser. It is difficult to accept, given the Green Paper's finding that 50 per cent of Australian farmers had no debts and that 24 per cent of the remainder had minimal debts. Even for those who do have significant debts it would be a very foolish and shortsighted bank manager who would refuse to provide credit for the purchase of essential fertilisers, except to a client who had no equity left in the property. Of course, if that were the case the client would have no future as a farmer beyond the next year or two anyway. So I suggest that although that argument is more sophisticated than the previous one, it has little validity. 
Proponents of the increased efficiency theory ignore the possibility- it is more than a possibility the payment of a bounty on a particular input will induce overusage of that input by rational  farmers,  that is, by farmers who count the cost to them and the return to them from the output that extra fertiliser will produce. Those farmers will use more superphosphate than they should do if it is subsidised. Then of course, there are the irrational farmers who will throw the fertiliser around because it is cheap or because it is one way of dodging taxation. There appears to have been a fair bit of that in the past. In the Western Australian Press of around a year ago a number of examples of over-use of superphosphate by Western Australian farmers were cited. One such article appeared in the  West Australian  on 9 April 1975 and was headed ' "Millions wasted ' ' on super '. The article stated: 
Hundreds of farmers- mainly in the South-West and Great Southern- are wasting millions of dollars on superphosphate this year. 
The report continues and refers to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Western Australian Department of Agriculture and to various analyses undertaken by those institutions. Even the Western Australian Minister for Agriculture said on 1 7 April 1975 with respect to the superphosphate bounty: 
Efforts were being made to have the bounty restored, but in the meantime farmers could lower their cost of production by applying a recommended amount of super. In all probability farmers were applying an even spread of super when the bounty was in force. 
The Minister for Agriculture,  Mr McPharlin,  was further reported as saying: 
They may, however, not need as much as they previously applied. 
There are marginal cases which are not so important in the aggregate, where superphosphate is used when in fact lime or sulphur should be used. Even the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  referred in his certainly confused manner to the use of lime as a substitute for superphosphate. Then, of course, there is the old practice which I noted in travelling up the country last week still has not died out entirely, of prespreading superphosphate on land that is about to be cropped with wheat, notwithstanding the quite decisive evidence of many years standing from the Western Australian Department of Agriculture that superphosphate applied in that way is only half as effective as superphosphate drilled with the seed. To argue that the superphosphate bounty is justified on grounds of efficiency is to argue that private entrepreneurs are not capable of making sensible management decisions unless they are coerced or cajoled by politicians and by Government bureaucrats. In other words, the argument repudiates the doctrine of free enterprise. Selfproclaimed exponents of free enterprise who embrace that apostasy expose themselves, at best, to charges of intellectual sloth and, at worst, to charges of hypocrisy. They infer that their support for free enterprise arises from a desire to rationalise an existing distribution of wealth and income, not from any conviction that it provides the best mechanism for organising a system of production. 
It is true that Australian soils are more phosphorus deficient than most. Given that fact and given the fact that superphosphate is expensive, that it has become more expensive in recent years and, despite some of the hopes expressed by  Senator Scott  and  Mr Wentworth  in the other place, is not likely to become less expensive in the future, one would expect us to be looking for more efficient ways of utilising superphosphate and for developing less phosphate hungry agricultural technologies and producing less superphosphate hungry final products. An argument along those lines was put by the Liberal member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short)  in the House of Representatives and at somewhat greater length by the Victorian Department of Agriculture at the 1976 Industries Assistance Commission inquiry.  Mr Short  also said that the role of governments was to ease adjustments within agriculture to changing circumstances. It is perhaps a pity that the Liberal Government of the 1960s did not have the benefit of minds such as  Mr Short's.  Had it done so it might have recognised the clear market signal that was coming through from the 1960s, that superphosphate prices were rising because the raw rock phosphate was rising in price and was scarce. 
What Liberal governments in the 1960s did instead was progressively to subsidise away the increasing price of rock phosphate and lead Australian agriculture into a dreamland where it came to believe and to accept, sponsored and prodded by the Government, that superphosphate would remain forever virtually as cheap as sand. It would have been much more sensible for the government of that day to allow the market signals to be heard by Australian farmers who would then have thought very much earlier about economising in the use of superphosphate. Instead it subsidised away all price increases, thereby encouraging the development of acutely phosphate deficient land, some of which has been cited before the IAC, such as the wallum country of Queensland, some of the high plains and hills in New England and of course in Western Australia. It would also have induced a movement towards cereal or other cropping rather than grazing. Here the reference to phosphate hungry final products comes in. 
The income normally received from cropping per acre, both gross and net- it varies from region to region- is usually about double the level of income that can be received from grazing. It is pretty obvious, given that fact, that cropping is more able to carry high fertiliser cost than grazing. Had Australian farmers not been encouraged to move into grazing instead of cropping they would not have done so to the same extent. It is true that we may run into marketing problems with cereals and other crops in the future, as we have done in the past, but it is difficult to make a major point of that argument while simultaneously ignoring the fact that we have already run into grave troubles with marketing the products of our grazing industries. I am sorry that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has left the chamber as he expressed some concern about the starving millions and inferentially endorsed the view that it was our duty to provide food for the starving millions. It is perhaps worth noting that some of the starving millions sometimes do use our cereal grains. Hardly ever do they use the products of our grazing industries. They are for the rich section of the world only, because only the rich section of the world can afford to buy them. So it is a lot of nonsense to suggest that our grazing industries will be feeding the world 's hungry. 
I referred earlier to the Green Paper. I leave the technical economic arguments about superphosphate subsidies with this quotation from chapter V, paragraph 5.46: 
A further, and in the long term potentially important, limitation of input subsidies or taxation concessions is that they encourage an imbalance in the use of inputs. If the problem is that the input's price is rising, i.e. it is becoming scarcer, a subsidy encourages freer use of a commodity that the market suggests should be used more economically. Moreover, it discourages research into methods of substituting for the input or for using it more efficiently and discourages the adoption of management practices which economise in its use- the more nitrogen fertiliser is subsidised the more it will be used, in place of a legume crop or pasture, with possibly adverse consequences for soil structure. 
It put the point very well. It is argued sometimes that there is no need to worry about the effect that subsidising this particular input has on research. Obviously, if the input is very cheap nobody is going to do too much research into economising on its use. It is argued that there is no need to worry about that because State governments will ensure that the research is done. Implicit in that argument is a belief in the consistency both within and between governments in following a particular line of policy- a simple faith which unfortunately history does not justify. We have only to look at the experience of the 1960s when a Federal government- a Liberal-Country Party government, to its credit -was pointing out to the Australian dairy industry that it was too large for the size of the effective market and at the same time the Victorian Government was establishing new dairy farms on the Little Desert and at Heytesbury. Although the Federal Government was saying in the mid-1960s that the dairy industry was too large for the size of its market, it was also providing taxation and other concessions- which  Senator Scott  loves so much- to encourage the expansion of dairying right around Australia. 
There is one argument in favour of the bounty which, I regret to say, has not been decently put by anyone from the Government side, which is partially valid. That is the tariff compensation argument. Since honourable senators opposite seem to be unable to put it I will try to put it for them quickly. It is argued that the existence of the Australian tariff both raises internal cost levels, thereby raising the price of inputs which the farmers use, and also affects the exchange rate. For both these reasons, it is argued validly, exporting industries are disadvantaged. Therefore, the argument goes on, tariff compensation should be paid to exporting industries to offset the adverse effect that that has on the allocation of resources, and so on. It is true that there is an impeccable theoretical argument for paying  ad valorem  bounties on exports, at least if the rest of the world are free traders. There is an equally impeccable theoretical argument for abolishing the Austraiian tariff. The IAC in its 1973-74 annual report went on to develop that very point, that if we are going to pay full tariff compensation for exports right across the board we have moved back into exactly the same situation we would be in if we did not have the tariff at all. Therefore, the IAC said, if that proposition is adopted it is better just to abolish the tariff because it is simpler. That ought to appeal to the present Government, which claims to be interested particularly in small government and which does not believe in overt or indeed any interference in the private sector if one listens to its rhetoric. 
However, although there is a theoretical argument for tariff compensation to exports only which has considerable validity, this particular measure is not appropriate. It is not appropriate because it is entirely unselective. Not all people who produce exports are consumers of superphosphate; not all consumers of superphosphate are exporters. One very good example of this is the Queensland beef industry which uses minimal quantities of superphosphate but which is a significant exporter. Then there are other industries- most horticultural industries, market gardening and so on- which produce only for the domestic market and which use some fertiliser. This argument about tariff compensation also ignores the fact that a great deal of indirect compensation already is provided to rural industries through heavy losses on country water supplies, particularly on irrigation if it is properly costed, and losses on rural postal services, rural telephones, rural railways, rural roads and, of course, the agricultural research and extension service which generally is funded by governments in Australia. 
A point which is not often made or which is often overlooked is that many Australian commodities are sold on a protected domestic market. By this I mean that the domestic consumer pays, and the Australian producer receives, well above export parity for a number of agricultural commodities. The fact that agricultural marketing is structured in that way breaks the nexus between the marginal market price and the price received by farmers. That is important in another way: given that the markets are structured in that way, there is a built-in tendency for these commodities to develop a surplus capacity. The price received by the producer is an averaged or equalised price. In fact, the marginal price paid by the market is something very much lower than that. Therefore, some producers find it quite profitable to expand production even though in so doing the extra production which they have generated may be sold or dumped on export markets at ruinously low prices. That sort of marketing system applies for eggs and butter- in fact all dairy products. Normally it applies for sugar -temporarily that position has been reversedand a number of other fairly important foodstuffs which I cannot bring to mind at the moment. 
That fact, of course, erodes very substantially the tariff compensation argument which is that because exporting industries are affected by the tariff fewer resources are devoted to those industries than would be devoted in an optimal situation. In a free market that argument might be valid. But because there is this in-built tendency, because of the structure of marketing many agricultural commodities in Australia, one factor probably offsets the other. On the one hand we have the tariff which has a tendency to restrict the size of these exporting industries because of the competition for resources from the manufacturing sector, and on the other hand we have the higher price protected markets which break the nexus between marginal prices and prices received by the producer and which therefore encourage producers to expand production when in a free market situation they would not do so. 
That draws attention to the other furphy frequently thrown around by our opponents- that this superphosphate subsidy will provide cheap food for Australian housewives. In fact, when it generates increased production in a number of these areas- in the dairy products area, in the canned fruit area, in the dried fruit area, normally in the sugar area, and more often than not in the wheat area- it increases the temptation to try to extract a higher price from the captive domestic market and sometimes ask the Government for a subsidy as well. The most spurious argument of all is probably that we should subsidise superphosphate to feed the starving world. I have touched on this subject. Rarely have Australian agricultural products been consumed by the world's hungry. They are consumed overwhelmingly by people who are well fed to overfedby the affluent at home and abroad. If we were really concerned about feeding the world's hungry, apart from swinging over to grain production and away from pastoral pursuits, we would not launch campaigns designed to persuade Australians who already suffer from overeating to endanger their health further by consuming more eggs or butter or milk or what have you. Luxury commodities like beef and wool would not be produced at all. In any case, Australia produces somewhat less than 2 per cent of the world's total food supplies. If that output were doubled, which may be technically feasible within a decade, it would feed only a bit more than one year's normal world population increase. 
The point that I am making is that if the world's population and food problems are ever to be solved, they can be solved only close to those areas where most of the world's hungry actually are. They can be solved by improving agricultural technology in those countries where most of the world's hungry are. Nothing is more critically short in most of those areas than fertiliser. If we were really interested in feeding those people we would be seeing that they received more fertiliser rather than increasing fertiliser usage for the production of luxury commodities in Australia, and we would be trying to help them to improve their agricultural technology. Those honourable senators who saw on Saturday night the television program  Four Corners  which dealt with West Africa would perhaps extend that a bit further. Half the ablebodied men in many villages are blinded and crippled by disease and that has drastic consequences on agricultural production in a primitive society. Perhaps we could try to do something about that. Of course, the Government has the numbers. It will carry this Bill. I leave with the Minister one thought, quite apart from any conflict which may exist between the 2 sides of the chamber. Allegations have been made- some have been made in evidence before the Industries Assistance Commission- that there is no effective quality control on superphosphate. It was stated in an article in the  Canberra Times  on 12 March that superphosphate is not defined in the Bill. I cannot entirely agree with this assertion. Although it is not referred to as superphosphate I think that superphosphate is satisfactorily defined in section 3 and section 8 (2.) and 8 (3.) of the Phosphate Fertiliser Bounty Act of 1963 which remain unaltered. For practical purposes it is satisfactorily defined there. Nevertheless, it appears that there is no mechanism to safeguard quality control. Therefore, I leave with the Minister a genuine suggestion which the Government may investigate. While quality control is not provided for in the Act perhaps it may be provided for by regulation. The last section of the Act provides for the issuing of regulations. 
1 mean ensuring that the fertiliser upon which the bounty is paid does contain  P2O5-  phosphorus pentoxide- in the quantity that it is supposed to contain and, moreover, that an adequate proportion of the total phosphorus pentoxide content is soluble in either citrates or water. Evidence was given to the IAC by- I have forgotten the name - 
Yes, by the Victorian Department of Agriculture and also by a  Mr Taylor  of, I think, the Australian Government analytical laboratories. As far as I can establish there is no regulation or anything currently existing to ensure quality control. There are State Acts which do not appear to be entirely effective, nor are they uniform. Finally, I think that if the predictions which were made by  Senator Scott  should materialise and ultimately the IAC recommends against the payment of a bounty, and the Government accepts that advice, the real damage that this Bill is likely to cause is that it will undo the adjustment process which farmers already have undergone. That is a psychological adjustment process, not just a managerial adjustment process. It will undo that which has already been achieved. There is a grave danger that it will raise false hopes for the future. It not only contradicts the Government's stated policy. It also repudiates its entire philosophy. It feeds a whole series of irrationalities and misconceptions which have damaged Australian agriculture for far too long. Of course, it also ignores need both within and without the agricultural sector. 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs and it refers to the assurance given by the Prime Minister again today and also by  Senator Carrick-  the absolute guarantee, as they call it- that the smaller States will not be disadvantaged relative to the larger States under the new federalism arrangements. Can the Minister reconcile those statements with the New South Wales Premier's expectation, expressed in the  Financial Review  of 13 February, that New South Wales would receive a relatively larger proportion of taxation paid, which would allow New South Wales to drop its State petrol tax? Has  Sir Eric  Willis abolished the tax in the false expectation that New South Wales will receive a relatively larger share of federal taxation? 
As my colleague  Senator Gietzelt  has already stated, the Opposition is not opposing this legislation. We have been accused by a number of members of the Government of displaying inconsistency in opposing the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill 1976 and not opposing the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Bill 1976. The Government in fact could well be accused of inconsistency in its attitude towards adopting or not adopting reports of the Industries Assistance Commission. The Government in one instance has explicitly claimed and in the other instance attempted to put forward the idea that it is adopting the recommendations of the IAC in respect of both of these measures. In neither case is the claim true. The recommendation of the IAC on the superphosphate bounty- it was a majority recommendation, split two to one, not a unanimous recommendationwas to pay a bounty on superphosphate from 1 January 1975 to the end of December 1975. Of course, what the Government in fact has legislated for is the payment of the bounty from 11 February 1976 to 30 June 1977. So in that instance, it did not implement the majority recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission to the letter. Neither, of course, did it implement to the letter its pre-election promise which was to implement the majority recommendation of the IAC. 
In the case of the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy, the IAC recommended a phase-out over a 3-year period. The Government has rejected for the time being that recommendation of the IAC and is legislating for the extension of the bounty for a further 12 months. Since we have some sympathy for the Government in its dilemma as to what to do about this matter- we can understand the Government's reluctance to acknowledge that it is flatly rejecting one clear and unanimous recommendation of the IAC at the same time as it claims to be implementing another- we can understand the Government's sensitivity on this issue and we are prepared to give it a period of 12 months in order to make up its mind on this subject. Of course, there are a number of other important differences between these 2 pieces of legislation. Some of the differences have been touched upon by  Senator Gietzelt.  I will list four of them. Firstly, there is a simple difference in cost. The cost of implementing the recommendation of the IAC is $4m. The cost of restoring the superphosphate bounty for the period which the legislation provided for is in the vicinity of $50m. So there is a difference in cost of $4m and $50m. 
The second difference is in the question of continuity. Since the superphosphate bounty has not been paid for more than a year, whereas the nitrogenous bounty was paid right up until the end of December, in continuing the subsidy on nitrogenous fertiliser a pre-existing policy is simply being extended for 12 months. But in the case of the superphosphate bounty, the Government has reversed the pre-existing condition. No bounty had been paid for 1 3 months. The Government has now legislated for the restoration of the bounty. Assistant Commissioner Robinson, in his dissenting opinion contained in the interim report on superphosphate fertilisers, drew attention to the dangers of this discontinuity of government policy and the very grave dangers, which even one or two members of the Government have acknowledged in debate, that the temporary restoration of the superphosphate bounty would induce false hopes among producers that it would be restored on a permanent basis. Assistant Commissioner Robinson said: 
Despite the Commission's clear warnings, an interim bounty - 
This was in relation to superphosphate-  may raise unwarranted expectations among users that is will be continues. Where such expectations are not held, and financial resources are available, the interim bounty may stimulate the stockpiling of bountiable fertiliser. 
So we have the difference in cost and the consistent application by the Opposition of the principle of continuity. 
Thirdly, we have a question of saleability. There is a highly significant difference in the usage pattern of superphosphate and nitrogenous fertilisers. Some 70 per cent of superphosphate is applied to pastures upon which animals are grazed and from which ultimately goods like skimmed milk powder, of which we have a stockpile currently in excess of 100 000 tonnes, wool of which we have a stockpile in excess of 1 500 000 bales and beef which has been grossly overproduced during the last 2 years, are produced. That superphosphate ends up as a final product in these commodities which are at the margins unsaleable. The position with nitrogenous fertilisers is totally reversed. Thirty per cent of the nitrogenous fertilisers- I cite that figure from page 10 of the IAC report- used in Australia is used for sugar production, 17 per cent is used for wheat production and 2 1 per cent is used for other cereal production. All of those products are readily saleable. Since the legislation provides for the extension of the bounty for only one year, it can be assumed fairly safely that all of those products will remain readily saleable throughout the duration of the operation of the bounty. 
There is, moreover, another point upon which  Senator Collard  has touched peripherally in citing the current differential between the domestic price of sugar and the export price of sugar. It is a rather recent phenomenon. If we like to go back about 7 years we find that the reverse was the position and that in fact the difference between the then higher domestic price of sugar and the average return from exports constituted an indirect subsidy of $5,000 for each producer of sugar. Nevertheless, that is history and the current position is as  Senator Collard  stated it to be. It is reasonable to assume that that position will be maintained for another year, anyway. Therefore the more sugar that is produced, the higher the average value of sugar becomes because at the margin the price is higher than it is on average. The same is true also in regard to wheat and also for other cereal grains. At least there is no rapidly declining price for marginal production as, of course, there is with those other products of the grazing industry for which superphosphate is used. 
The fourth point, which my colleague  Senator Gietzelt,  dealt with, is that although there are no completely reliable statistics on this matter, it seems probable that the distribution of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty is less inequitable than the distribution of the superphosphate bounty mainly because the level of production between individual producers in the major consuming industry- that is the sugar industry- does not cover such a wide difference in levels of output as is the case in the grazing industries. It was stated by several members of the Government that they were unable to understand the remarks which I made in the debate on the previous legislation. I am sorry if they failed to grasp the crucial elements. But I suppose that one ought to have realised that people who purport to hold the free enterprise system, the capitalist system or the market economy- whatever they call itnearest and dearest seem to be chronically unable to grasp its fundamental principles. The fundamental principle as it applies to the discussion of this Bill and the previous Bill is that any sensible farmer will continue to use fertiliser as long as the cost of the last tonne of fertiliser he has used is offset or more than offset by the extra production gained from the use of that last tonne of fertiliser. It is what economists call equalising marginal cost and marginal revenue. It was suggested by many supporters of the Government that unless the cost of a fertiliser is subsidised farmers will not use it and the inevitable consequence of that will be disastrous. That is sheer nonsense. Any sensible farmer will continue to use fertiliser as long as it is profitable for him to do so. The test of profitability, of course, is the value of the extra production which the extra fertiliser will provide. 
I am sorry if members of the Government have not grasped that very fundamental principle of the free enterprise economy or market economy which they purport to believe in. I can assure them that there are many thousands of farmers throughout Australia who have grasped it. In fact, I personally have known farmers hardly able te write their names who have grasped it. I think that it is a very sad proposition if the Government senators are not able to grasp it. 

 -Does Senator Mulvihill think that  Senator Baume  understands it? I tried to speak slowly and in monosyllables. I hope that honourable senators opposite understood it. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Coleman)-  I call  Senator Webster. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I did not hear the use of the word 'idiot' about which the original complaint was made, but I did hear the second reference which was made and which related to  Senator McLaren.  Under the circumstances I think I should ask  Senator Webster  to withdraw both remarks. 
Like you, Madam Acting  Deputy President,  I did not hear  Senator Webster's  remarks; so I am not in a position to comment on them. I repeat that it is terribly important that Government senators understand this fundamental, basic, primary lesson in the operation of their free enterprise economy: Sensible farmers will continue to use superphosphate or any other fertiliser as long as the monetary return that they get from the use of that fertiliser covers the cost of the fertiliser. It is vital that Government senators understand that. I do not mind being called an idiot by  Senator Webster  as long as finally he has managed to grasp that very elementary lesson. 
I will do so slowly and in monosyllables. Any sensible farmer will continue to use fertiliser- whether it be superphosphate or nitrogenous fertiliser- so long as the value of the increased production arising from the use of that fertiliser compensates the farmer for the cost of that fertiliser. 
I am very pleased to know that Government senators finally have grasped it. Since at least  Senator Webster  finally has grasped it, I look forward eagerly to the day when Government senators will stop sprouting the sort of nonsense that has been sprouted in this chamber over the last 2 days, in suggesting that we have to subsidise a particular fertiliser because if we do not do so farmers will not use it and therefore production will cease. It is a great pity that Government senators who purport to represent farmers in this chamber do not seem to understand what the overwhelming majority of practising farmers in Australia understand. It also has been suggested in debate on these measures that it is essential to maintain the usage of a fertiliser at a particular level. Indeed, poor  Senator Walters,  whose comprehension of these matters appears to be marginally lower than  Senator Webster's  comprehension of them - 

 -If Senator Webster objects, I am quite happy to retract. I do not know why he should object to my suggestion that  Senator - 
-Yes. I stated that initially,  Mr President.  I do not know why  Senator Webster  should object to my suggesting that his comprehension of these matters is somewhat better than  Senator Walters'  comprehension of them. That is what I did suggest. 
That is not the way in which  Senator Webster  put it. Poor  Senator Walters  stated: 'We must again use the previous quantities of fertiliser'. She stated that this afternoon. She stated within this context that the true market price of the fertiliser in question had increased from $27 a tonne to $60 a tonne. Notwithstanding a change in cost of that magnitude,  Senator Walters  can assert quite dogmatically that we must continue to use the previous quantities of fertiliser. That is not a rational response. It is not typical of the response of rational farmers or indeed of farmers generally; nor is it the response of any person who has the faintest comprehension of the operations of a market economy. Those who say that governments must intervene in the market place in order to insulate producers from changes in the cost of any particular input are establishing, whether they recognise it or not, a case for central government control of the economy. 
I wish to raise 2 more points. It has been suggested very deceitfully that the purpose of paying subsidies on fertilisers is to minimise the cost of food. There are 2 errors here. Firstly, there is this gross and rather obvious error: If the objective of the policy is to keep down the cost of food by the payment of a subsidy, why not subsidise the food item instead of some input which may be used in producing that food item? Of course, the second fallacy is that the increased production which may accrue from paying a subsidy on fertiliser and thereby increasing its usage does not necessarily reduce the price of food to the consumer. It ought to reduce the price of food to the consumer in a competitive market, but many agricultural commodities are not sold on competitive markets in Australia. 
The second point refers to the very dishonest analogy between the disclosure of the names of the major beneficiaries of a subsidy of this fertiliser or on some other fertiliser and the disclosure of the names of beneficiaries under a scheme such as Medibank. The great weakness, the great fallacy, the great dishonesty in this analogy is that everyone is entitled to receive the benefit of Medibank, and everyone probably does; but when we are dealing with a highly selective subsidy, such as a fertiliser subsidy, only a small minority receives the benefit of that subsidy. Although many of the objections which the Opposition raised in relation to the phosphate fertiliser subsidy- as to whether the economy will operate as a market economy or whether governments will continue to intervene and we will have strong and heavy-handed central government intervention and direction of resources into particular sections of the economy by means of central government and bureaucratic decision-are applicable to both of these pieces of legislation, the Opposition has decided not to oppose the nitrogenous fertiliser legislation. We take this attitude because the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy will operate for only 12 months, because the amount of public expenditure involved is very much less than that involved in the superphosphate bounty, because the principle of continuity is being applied consistently by the Opposition, although not by the Government, and because the extra production which the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty is likely to bring forth within the next 12 months will relate overwhelmingly to commodities which are readily saleable. 
The complete reverse is true in regard to the superphosphate bounty. If any one of the 9 Government senators who are presently in the chamber believes that it is a sound national policy to increase the production of skim milk powder, I wish that he would stand up and speak. If anyone believes it is a sound policy to stimulate artificially the production of wool when we have a stockpile of 1  lA  million bales I wish he would stand up and speak. If anyone believes it is a good idea to stimulate artificially the production of beef which has been seriously overproduced for 2 years with consequential disastrous prices to producers, I wish he would stand up and speak. 
There are no takers. There is no response to any of those challenges. Yet honourable senators on the Government side this day will enact a piece of legislation which will provide $50m of taxpayers' funds to be used overwhelmingly to stimulate artificially the production of those commodities. 
I move: 
That the Senate expresses its concern at the fiscal implications of the Government's 'new federalism' policy for the Australian States; and the Senate declares that to whatever degree the Fraser Government implements its stated policy of making State government's responsible for raising the money that they spend, the 4 less populous States particularly will be financially disadvantaged. 
Since this motion concerns the vexed question of Federal-State financial relations I want to nail at the outset the monstrous lie which has been repeated on innumerable occasions by assorted spokesmen for the Government and in its most recent form was repeated in the Senate - 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Does the Minister assert that the federalism policy means a more generous financial deal for the States than under the previous Labor Government? Secondly, given the fact that total Federal payments to the States increased by more than 58 per cent in constant value dollars in the period 1972 to 1975, can he guarantee that the total payments to the States in the next 3 years will increase, also in constant value dollars, by more than 58 per cent? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the $50m capital expenditure by the Swan Brewery Company Ltd on a new brewery at Canning Vale, Western Australia, qualify for the 40 per cent investment allowance and a taxation subsidy, at present tax rates, of $8. 5m. 
Did the Company announce a firm decision to build the brewery last October before the policy was introduced. 
Will other companies also reap windfall gains from investment decisions which pre-date the investment allowance policy. 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs.  Senator Carrick  when answering a question yesterday from me stated: 'My answer is an unequivocal yes'. I ask for the purpose of clarification whether his unequivocal yes applies to both sections of the question I asked, bearing in mind that the second section sought a guarantee from him that total payments to the States in the next 3 years would increase by more than they did in the 3 years of Labor Government, that is, by 58 per cent in constant values? 
Two of the incidents that we have witnessed tonight constitute a fair measure of the desperation of the Liberal and National Country parties on the eve of the New South Wales State election. Despite all the boasting and the bombast which we saw early this afternoon and which we have seen during the previous few weeks, it is quite apparent that the Government parties desperately fear that they will be defeated in the New South Wales State election on Saturday. Indeed, so desperate are they that tonight they put up a feather duster senator who sat here in the Senate for 18 months without speaking a word to try to re-present a tattered, tatty and puerile document that they have been hawking around the Parliament for weeks. They were not able to get anybody to take any notice of it. It has been treated tonight with precisely the contempt which it deserves. The Government parties do all these things in the forlorn hope that somehow or other they will be able to inject some elixir to revitalise the wilting Willis campaign for the New South Wales State election. 
Then, of course, following  Senator Townley  we heard from  Senator Baume,  the zealot, who was protecting the interests of the Australian people. He presented an extemely complicated set of figures which we have not sighted and a complicated argument in which he alleged that in some way which he did not explain very clearly the Budget introduced by the Labor Government last year had enforced loans of approximately $300m from the Australian taxpayers to the Government. Not having seen the documents, it was a much too complicated argument to enable an evaluation of its merits. But 1 leave the Senate with this thought. It is a great pity for the people of New South Wales- in fact, it is a tragedy- particularly for those who were short changed by Patrick Partners, that they did not have a zealot of  Senator Baume  's calibre looking after their interests and protecting the money that they had invested in that firm. 
There is one thing I can state assuredly without having seen any of the documents that  Senator Baume  presented. He persists in peddling the untruth that personal PA YE taxation collections this financial year will be $8.6 billion. It is true that this is what the Budget estimates show. Since then, because of the success of the previous Labor Government in reducing the rate of inflation, average weekly earnings have increased by less than 60 per cent of the amount forecast at that time. Therefore, PA YE tax collections will be some $1.5 billion lower than the Budget estimates show. It is about time that the Liberal Party caught up with that simple fact. However, if its members have not caught up with that simple fact it is about time they stopped trying to have the best of both worlds by on the one hand asserting that PA YE tax collections this year will be $8.6 billion and on the other hand asserting simultaneously that we will have a deficit of $4.5 billion. The reason the deficit has increased is that PA YE taxation collections will be $1.5 billion lower than  Senator Baume  claimed they would be. 
The Liberal and National Country parties are terrified that they will be defeated in New South Wales. The Willis Government is in danger because of its crass incompetence, and particularly because of its crass incompetence under its previous leader whom they successfully, and very astutely no doubt, assassinated last January. This happened because many of the New South Wales Cabinet Ministers are involved in a shameful scandal and an extortion of the Sydney milk market which deprives low income dairy farmers on the north coast of New South Wales who live in the electorates of  Mr Sinclair  and  Mr Anthony.  These farmers recently rebelled against the National Country Party. They formed an organisation urging the return of a Labor Government in New South Wales. Not only has this crass Government in New South Wales failed to give the farmers a reasonable share of the lucrative Sydney milk market, not only is it over charging milk consumers in Sydney to the extent of 5c a litre but also, to complete the scandal, several members of the New South Wales State Government have major quotas to supply that Sydney milk market. I am surprised that the pseudo zealots who pretend to protect the interests of the public have not demanded a royal commission into the Sydney milk scandal. 
Of course, mostly the Willis Government is in danger because of the Federal Liberal Party's much vaunted new federalism policy which was presented as the brightest jewel in the crown of liberalism. It is now revealed as a shoddy document and as a shoddy, ill-considered policy. Let us disregard the pseudo philosophical claptrap which seems to permeate practically all the policy statements which came from the Liberal Party both before and after the election. Its slothful drafting is epitomised by such a selfcontradictory clause as that providing that there will be a per capita grant paid to local government authorities which incorporates a weighting formula. That is a self-contradictory statement which is written into the policy of which the Liberal Party is ostensibly very proud. A per capita grant is a per capita grant. There is no room for a weighting formula. 
Then, of course, we have such inconsistencies as those contained in  Senator Carrick  's assertion in the Senate only yesterday when he said: 
The present Federal Government does not consider it at all desirable that the States should have the sole responsibility for raising the finances for education and hospitalisation. 
What  Senator Carrick  is saying there is that this Government believes that it should bear at least some of the responsibility for raising finances for those services. This contrasts- indeed it contradictsthe Press statement issued by  Senator Carrick  on 6 October 1 975 in which he said: 
The Commonwealth would vacate part of the income tax field equivalent to the value of the Commonwealth's reimbursement to the States. 
So 6 months ago  Senator Carrick  was saying that the Commonwealth would vacate that part of the income tax field. Yesterday he was saying that the Commonwealth still has responsibility to raise some of the money for those services which lie constitutionally within the province of the States. Of course, under cross-examination or interrogation about this issue in recent days  Senator Carrick  in particular has replied to questions in a manner which can be described only as prevaricatory or simply incompetent. Before I cite the examples of prevaracation and /or incompetence and /or deceit in the answers that have been given in the Senate in the last couple of days - 
I withdraw that word,  Mr President,  I will stick to the only other alternative remaining. That is that  Senator Carrick  does not understand his own policy. I suspect that that really is the truth because large sections of it are completely incomprehensible. Before citing the examples which we have seen in the Senate in the last couple of days, I wish to draw attention to the fact that it has been asserted constantly for many months by members of the Liberal and National Country parties that under the previous Labor Government the States were severely squeezed financially. I am gratified to see that  Senator Scott  at least tonight has acknowledged that that is not true and that in fact there were massive increases in grants to the States during the previous 3 years. Indeed, the total payment to the States from federal sources during the period from the 1972 Budget to the 1975 Budget increased by a massive 137 per cent or by 58 per cent in constant value dollars. The States were never so well treated financially as they were under the Labor Government.  Senator Scott,  although at the time he spoke was unaware of the precise figures, acknowledged this and I was very gratified that he did so. It means that he has been considerably more forthcoming on this matter than any of his colleagues. I was interested to hear him say that the result of this policy of being too generous financially to the States is that it induced a substantial deficit. Implicit in that comment by  Senator Scott  and the assurances given by the Fraser Government that the deficit will be eliminated is the fact that the Fraser Government intends to squeeze the States financially. That is precisely what the Fraser Government intends to do. 
I do not have to go back farther than yesterday's  Hansard  to find examples of  Senator Carrick  's apparent ignorance of the policy which he is expounding on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and of which he is alleged and believed to have been the author. By way of supplementary question yesterday,  Senator James  McClelland asked  Senator Carrick  very pointedly, after  Senator Carrick  had failed to answer the question the first time: 
Will the Minister for Education tell us whether the Government's new federalism policies envisage a power resting with State governments to impose their own income tax? 

 Senator Carrick replied: 
The strict answer to that question is no. 
The Liberal Party's own policy document, issued in September, and numerous Press statements issued since September clearly and unequivocally state that in stage 2 of the federalism policy the States will be empowered to levy an income tax.  Senator Carrick  insists on trying to draw a distinction between a second tax and a tax surcharge. The  West Australian  newspaper, which is hardly noted for its radical left wing editorials or, indeed, its support of the Australian Labor Party, observed in an editorial today that we are in a farcical situation where every day spokesmen for the Australian Labor Party state the self-evident fact that the Liberal Party's new federalism policy envisages the imposition of a second or State income tax and every day spokesmen for the Fraser Government attempt to deny what is self-evident and obvious. I do not know why they are so frightened and are running away from this. It has not even been very good tactics. They would have done less damage to their credibility if they had acknowledged that they are proposing to allow the States to levy a second income tax. 
Yesterday, I put to  Senator Carrick  a question in which I cited the figures on the value in real terms of Federal payments to the States during the 3 years of the Whitlam Government, which showed that in real terms there had been an increase of 58 per cent. I asked  Senator Carrick  whether he was asserting that under the new federalism the States would be treated more generously financially and whether he also was asserting that under the new federalism payments to the States in the next 3 years would increase by more than 58 per cent in real terms, since if the Fraser Government's policy was to be more favourable to the States than the Whitlam Government policies had been the payments would have to increase by more than 58 per cent in real terms.  Senator Carrick  replied: 
In response to  Senator Walsh,  my answer is an unqualified yes. 
Because question time was then cut off I was not able to ask a supplementary question, but today I asked  Senator Carrick  to clarify whether his unqualified yes answer was applicable to both sections of my question; that is, whether he was asserting that the States would be treated more generously under the new scheme and whether they would receive in real terms within 3 years 58 per cent more than they received in 1975. For fairly obvious reasons  Senator Carrick  did not answer the question. He waffled and prevaricated for 2 minutes, with a lengthy and rather incoherent discourse on the provisions governing the allowance for general purpose payments over the next 3 years. 
One particularly objectionable feature of a proposition to restore significant income taxing powers to the States which has not yet been brought out in any of the debates on this proposition is the scandalously undemocratic nature of every State Parliament in Australia with the exception of that of Tasmania- even there, of course, the Upper House is scandalously undemocratic- and that of South Australia. South Australia has the only tolerably democratic Parliament in this country. If the State governments are to be given significant powers to levy income tax, let us remember that these taxes will be levied by parliaments which are not representative of the people they purport to represent. In my own State of Western Australia, where all people are equal, but some are 16 times as equal as others because they have a vote in the Legislative Council of Western Australia which is worth 16 votes of other Western Australian citizens, quite massive income taxes can be and may be applied by a Parliament which is elected on a basis which is democratic to the extent of a ratio of 16 to one. 
Once again,  Senator Carrick  asserted yesterday that a Labor government had put through a gerrymandered redistribution in Western Australia. I challenge  Senator Carrick  to name the date on which the Labor Government put through a gerrymandered redistribution in Western Australia which favoured it. Indeed, I would be very interested to know how a Labor government could have gerrymandered the electoral laws of Western Australia when the Labor Party has never in the 86 years of responsible government had control of the Legislative Council. I would be very interested to hear from  Senator Carrick  how a Labor government managed to get a pro-Labor gerrymander through a Legislative Council which Labor has never controlled. He would have been on somewhat safer ground- I acknowledge this- if he had referred to what were quite improper gerrymanders ordained by Labor governments in the States of New South Wales and Queensland in the dim and distant past.  Senator Carrick,  like many other members of the Liberal Party, apparently sticks by the belief that because electoral malpractice was tolerated by a Labor government in some State two or three generations ago that situation should be perpetuated forever. I have heard both  Senator James  McClelland and  Senator Hall  attempt to drive that lesson in elementary morality into the consciousness of the members of the Liberal and National Country Parties who sit opposite. I wish  Senator Hall  well in his continuing endeavours to drive that lesson in elementary morality into their consciousness, whether from inside or outside the Liberal Party. 
Finally, it is obvious from the antics and contortions of members of the Liberal and National Country Parties in the Senate today that they have little confidence in the ability of the Willis Government to survive next Saturday's election. It is equally apparent from a cutting which I have from the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  of 9 April that the Willis Government has no confidence in the Fraser Government's ability to fulfil its preelection pledge to control inflation. I cite a claim by  Sir Eric  Willis that the transport policy proposed by the New South Wales Labor Party would not cost $825m as the Labor Party had suggested, but would cost $ 1,400m. To show the rationale behind the cost inflation of  Sir Eric  , I quote from the newspaper: 
A Transport Department's costing of Labor's program showed that with a modest cost rise of 10 per cent the 5-year scheme could cost at least $ 1 , 300m,  Sir Eric  said. 
In other words, for the purpose of costing a transport policy, the Premier of New South Wales has assumed a 10 per cent compound rate of inflation for the next 5 years and he describes the assumption of a 10 per cent compound rate of inflation as 'modest'. I use his word. He believes that that is modest. It is clear that between the Federal Liberal Party and the New South Wales Liberal Party there is a reciprocal lack of confidence. The Government of New South Wales, on the admission of its own leader, its own Premier, believes that inflation in Australia will be compounded for the next 5 years at a rate of 10 per cent or more under a government which claims that it will control inflation. On the other hand, the Federal Party clearly has no confidence whatsoever in the ability of the Willis Government to survive next Saturday's election. I believe that the mutual lack of confidence is well justified. 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does a document tabled in the Senate last night allege that an envelope containing $500,000 was handed to  Mr Whitlam  in Sydney last year? Is it possible to fit 10 000 $50 notes, or alternatively 25 000 $20 notes, into an envelope allegedly 15 inches square? If not, will he acknowledge that the document is inaccurate or fraudulent? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Is the Minister in a position to say whether  Senator Knight  flew to Perth on 6 February or 7 February 1976, and whether  Senator Knight  was driven in a Commonwealth car to the private address of the Member for Curtin. 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs and refers to the Prime Minister's acknowledgment at his Press conference on 23 April that under the Government's new federalism policy income tax between the States could vary- in  Mr Fraser's  words, 'more like in Canada'. Of course, in Canada the surcharges vary from 26 per cent in Alberta to 42  Vi  per cent in Manitoba. I ask: Does the Government envisage that variations of that magnitude will occur in Australia and could such variations be described accurately as marginal? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Do staff ceilings for the Minister's Department include a component of 579 persons for the staff of Ministers, Office Holders and Members of Parliament. 
What were the individual staff entitlements of the various Ministers, Office Holders and Members of Parliament which provided the basis for this ceiling component. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It refers to the continuing reports in the Press that the Government is considering imposing a levy to finance Medibank and reimposing radio and television licence fees as part of what the Press calls the Government's cost-cutting program. Does the Minister believe that proposals of this nature should be classified as expenditure cuts, or would they be classified more accurately as tax increases? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. In view of his earlier answers on the desirability of secret ballots for electing union officials, can he name those unions in Australia which currently do not elect their officials by either a secret ballot or the collegiate voting system, which I understand the Government intends to provide in its proposed legislation? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What was the maximum number and the names of Soviet ships, other than merchant ships, in the Indian Ocean in each month of 1972 and 1975. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, relates to the television translator for Mullewa in Western Australia. I understand that the project was approved last year and that it is now ready to be installed. I ask: When will the equipment be installed? When will transmission commence? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: If personal income tax payments were indexed on the present tax schedule from a commencement date of 1 July 1976 instead of 1 July 1975 when the present schedule became operative, would the Government receive about $ 1,200m from the phenomenon known as fiscal drag? If so, would that constitute what the Prime Minister calls a vast unlegislated increase in taxation? 
In his brief address I think  Senator Maunsell  has demonstrated yet again the confused and contradictory attitudes which prevail amongst supporters of the Government on the question of local government grants. On the one hand,  Senator Maunsell  assured us that, of course, the States know best how money ought to be distributed to local government and therefore the distribution of that money among local government units should be left with the State governments. If that is so, I ask  Senator Maunsell  why the Government's policy stipulates that per capita grants will be paid to all local government authorities? If the Fraser Government really believes that the distribution of these moneys ought to be left entirely to the State governments, why has it served notice that it will stipulate, that it will dictate, to the States that a percentage, as yet unnamed, of the total funds must be paid to local government authorities on a per capita basis? 
I also found it rather interesting and certainly ironical that  Senator Maunsell  should have referred to farmers' incomes, because I just happen to have in front of me a table prepared by the Parliamentary Library which shows on a calendar year basis net farm income at constant 1966-67 prices for the 3 years of Labor Government and the previous 3 years of government under the Liberal and National Country Parties. The table shows that net farm income at constant prices- that is, after allowing for inflationaveraged $982m during the 3 years from 1970 to 1972 of Liberal-National Country Party Government, and net farm income in the 3 years of the Labor Government averaged $ 1,430m; that is an increase of 45 per cent. So if  Senator Maunsell  was postulating that it became difficult for farmers to pay rates during the last 3 years when their average incomes were, in real terms, 45 per cent higher than during the previous 3 years, I would say that it must have been impossible for them to do so in the preceding 3 years. I am not sure what relevance that has to the Commonwealth Grants Commission Bill but it was  Senator Maunsell  who raised the issue, not I. 
It was interesting also to listen to  Senator Maunsell's  references to the alleged extravagance of the Whitlam Government in this area and the very clear implication that it is the intention of the Fraser Government to reduce the amount of money which will be paid in total from Federal sources to local government. I am grateful to  Senator Maunsell  for having had the honesty, however unwitting it may have been, to make that intention clear and to spell it out. I hope the warning is appreciated by local government throughout Australia. 
As is the case with most of the Fraser Government's new federalism policy-  Senator Maunsell  has just very clearly illustrated this- there is a great deal of confusion and contradiction between its ends, its stated objectives, and the means by which it will attempt to achieve those stated objectives. Indeed, there is contradiction as to the means themselves. In his second reading speech on this Bill, the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  stated: 
The precise role that the Grants Commission will play in the implementation of the Government's new federalism policy nas yet to be finally determined. 
Of course, the Minister's second reading speech also makes perfectly clear that the only reason for this Bill amending the Grants Commissions Act is, firstly, to remove those sections of the Grants Commission Act under which the previous Labor Government made grants to local government authorities and, secondly, to provide a legal framework within which, in some way which has yet to be defined, the present Government's new federalism policy can operate. That, of course, there is a frank admission that the role that the Grants Commission will play in the implementation of the Government's policy has yet to be determined. Yet the Government, by its own admission, is amending the Grants Commission Act, destroying the machinery which was established by the Labor Government, without having any idea in its own mind precisely what it will establish in the Commission's place. Indeed, it could be justifiably said in regard to the Government's policy on this particular matter, as is the case with most of the Fraser Government 's new federalism policy, that the Government is attempting to gestate, in a social and administrative vacuum, a viable policy from its own ideological prejudices. 
Apart from the frank admission in the Minister's second reading speech that the Government does not know where it is going, we find some other interesting contradictions. We are told repeatedly by this Government that the only purpose of this new federalism policy, in particular, this piece of legislation as one component of that new federalism policy, is to decentralise power. If the Government really believes in decentralising power from Federal sources, I put to  Senator Carrick  as the Minister now responsible for this legislation- I hope he will take up the question in his reply to the second reading debate- the same question which I put to  Senator Maunsell:  If the Liberal Party really believes that the States can more competently and more equitably spend whatever amount of revenue may be raised for local government, why is this Government insisting that at least part of the money be distributed on a per capita basis? The Government has not entirely abandoned centralism or the concept of dictation to the States by the central Government. The Government clearly does not know where it is or what it believes in. 
Assuming that the decentralisation of economic and administrative power was desirable, we ought to bear in mind the simple fact that the State governments pretty effectively centralise power unto themselves anyway. Federal grants are made to the States, for example, for road construction. The State governments then impose on local government authorities additional restrictions and additional constraints. The State governments insist that local governments match the funds which the State governments hand on to local government from Federal sources. Some constraints are imposed, of course -indeed, this is necessary- by the national Government on the way in which such road funds can be spent. The State governments pass on not only all of those constraints; they add more of their own. So even if the decentralisation of administrative power were desirable, we ought to be very conscious of the fact that some State governments- I can think of one State Premier on the western side of the continent in particular- have no real objection to centralism at all. In fact, the Premier to whom I refer is a very keen centralist, providing he is doing the centralising and not someone else. A Press release issued on 23 April by the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  had this to say: 
The Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, said today he was still seeking legal advice as to whether State Governments could sell off assets purchased with funds made available specifically for roads by way of Section 96 grants under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act. 
The subject matter of that Press statement was a proposal by the then Labor Opposition in New South Wales that some land which had been purchased for a freeway in inner Sydney be sold and the State Government retain the funds.  Mr Nixon  has clearly stated that that is not on. He has stated that the Federal Government will impose its will on the present Government of New South Wales if it can get a favourable judgment from the courts. If  Mr Nixon  really thinks that this is important, I hope that his legal judgment is sounder than his political judgment because later in the statement he made on 23 April he said that the prospect of the Labor Party being elected to government in New South Wales was so remote that it was unlikely the people of that State would suffer. I hope that his judgment is sounder in other areas than it is in prophesying the results of elections. 
Within the legislation which is before us- the second reading speech admits that the Government does not know how this policy will be administered or how the Grants Commission is going to operate- and within the other published documents emanating from the Liberal and Country parties we have this interesting contradiction, a contradiction contained in one sentence, that not only will they pay per capita grants but also the per capita grants will incorporate a weighting formula. Surely that is a contradiction in terms. A per capita grant is a per capita grant and if it incorporates anything else it ceases by definition to be a per capita grant. This is indicative once again of the indecent haste with which the Liberal and Country parties threw this policy together. It is predictable, in view of the indecent haste with which they threw it together, that they have not the faintest idea how they will implement it. 
It has yet to be decided what will be the magnitude of the levy on personal income tax earmarked for local government. Before anyone can sensibly state whether this will be advantageous to local government it is essential that the magnitude of the levy be known. It is not known. Nor is it known what proportion of that levy, whatever the levy may be, will be designated for the per capita grants and what proportion will be designed for equalisation grants.  Senator Carrick,  the Minister responsible for this and other aspects of the Government's new federalism policy, was clearly confused both before and after Easter, as can be deduced from his replies to questions in the Senate. On 4 May I asked  Senator Carrick  a question and referred to the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the surcharge in stage 2 imposed by the States would be 'more like in Canada'. In Canada the levy has varied in the most recent year from 26 per cent to 42  Vi  per cent. The Prime Minister stated publicly in his Press conference on 23 April that the level of surcharge would be comparable to that applying in Canada.  Senator Carrick  said on 4 May: 
In no way would one contemplate that the kind of variations about which  Senator Walsh  speaks could or would occur. 
So on one hand we have the Prime Minister saying that a surcharge of a maximum of 42  Vi  per cent and a minimum of 26 per cent is likely to apply in Australia, since he has likened it to Canada, and on the other hand  Senator Carrick  saying that in no way is this likely to happen. So from the 2 people who proclaim themselves to be most interested in this subject and primarily responsible for it, we have a clear contradiction on a crucial question of policy. Likewise, when 

 Senator Carrick was invited to reassure the Senate before Easter that the total amount of money granted to the States in real terms would increase by 58 per cent during the next 3 years as it had increased by 58 per cent under the 3 years of Labor Government,  Senator Carrick  completely ducked the question. I invite him to comment on that in his closing remarks since he and many other Liberal Party spokesmen have asserted that the States will be better off financially under the new federalism policy than they were under the Whitlam Government. I invite  Senator Carrick  and his colleagues to give a guarantee that the grants to the States will increase by something more than the 58 per cent by which they increased under the Whitlam Government during the last 3 years. In the second reading speech we find this bald assertion: 
The needs of less populated areas and of municipalities and shires with special disabilities will be protected. 
I ask: In what way will these needs be protected and the special disabilities compensated for if it is the Government's objective that the distribution of the money be left as much as possible to the States? If it is the Government's intention to leave the distribution to the States, the Government is in no position to give any guarantee or to exercise any authority over the distribution of the grants and therefore cannot honestly assert that special disabilities will be protected. The second reading speech also stated: 
No longer will local government have to approach the Federal Government 'cap in hand '. 
I thought that was a monumental piece of audacity from 2 parties which reigned for 23 years and which gave local government nothing by way of grants directly; parties which not only did nothing for local government by way of direct grants throughout their entire reign of 23 years but also had the audacity to oppose the 1974 referendum which would have given local government direct access to federal funds on a basis comparable with the States. It certainly has been a magnificent conversion by members of the Liberal and Country parties to the needs of local government. More likely, however, it is an empty piece of rhetoric such as we have become accustomed to hearing from all the spokesmen of the Government. 
Not only do we have no guarantee or even a reliable indication of the magnitude of the levy or the proportion of personal income tax which will be earmarked for local government, but also we have no information on the future of specific purpose grants, including road grants and grants for sewerage, which accrue to local government. 
According to the Local Government Association of New South Wales, about $200m was provided by way of specific purpose grants to local government this financial year apart from the special $79m distributed through the Grants Commission. The Government's broad intention with respect to specific purpose grants appears to be that they wil be phased out. If the Government is really going to phase out specific purpose grants, local government in order to be on a financial basis equal to the position it was in this year will require $280m plus an inflation factor. This will require a levy on personal income of the order of  Vh  percent. 
The Government also tells us that it intends to index taxation, although in what way we have not been told. It intends progressively to transfer its current fiscal responsibilities through section 96 grants to the States and force the States to take over those responsibilities and pay for them with a State income surcharge, and if all those policies are to be implemented it follows inevitably that the amount of personal income tax collected by the Federal Government must decline. Therefore, since it has been indicated that the percentage of that reducing yield earmarked for local government will remain fixed, funds available for local government must fall in proportion with any fall in the total of federal personal income tax collections. The explanatory notes which were circulated with the Bill by the Minister make it very clear that the regional basis of data collection and planning which is entailed in the existing legislation will be abandoned. They also make it very clear that the distribution of that section, as yet unstated, of the total finances which would be channelled through States grants commissions would be left to those States grants commissions. 
Under the existing policy, 2 very pertinent facts emerge with respect to the distribution between regions, particularly the distribution between city and country. Firstly, the proportion of money paid to the less populous States is higher. My own State, Western Australia, with 8.2 per cent of the population, this year received 9.4 per cent of the grants to local governments. On a per capita basis, Western Australia received $6.90 a head compared with a national figure of $6. The discrepancy there is not particularly great, but it does become great when we look at the distribution between very well established urban areas and remote country shires. Within Western Australia, the average per capita grant to urban councils was $4.25 and the average per capita grant to rural councils was $20.12. Within those averages, of course, as one would expect, there  are some grants to local authorities in particularly remote areas which are extraordinarily high, and I will give a few examples. These are not all of the highest grants but are examples from the remoter areas of Western Australia. In this financial year the shire of Sandstone received a grant of $150 a head, the shire of Murchison $100, the shire of Menzies $66, the shire of Meekatharra $32, the shire of Lake Grace $25 and the shire of Halls Creek $34. In other words, to a factor of four or five, the existing policy favoured the rural areas as distinct from the capital city areas. 
I invite Government spokesmen to give a guarantee that that same distribution pattern will be preserved under their policy. I invite those honourable senators who purport to represent rural areas in the Senate- in particular I invite the National Country Party- to give a guarantee that their Government's proposed changes will provide a distribution of funds as favourable to rural shires as is the existing policy. If they choose to give that guarantee, I invite them to prove how they can do it when, by their own admission, they have abdicated the responsibility for the distribution of the grants, and indeed have proudly asserted that one of the most attractive features of their policy is that the national Government has abdicated responsibility for distribution of the grants at a regional level and will hand the distribution over to the States. 
I want to make 2 more points,  Mr Deputy President.  The equalisation concept, which was the basis of the Labor Government's policy, is specifically repealed by this amending Bill. Section 6 of the old Act is repealed, and the explanatory memorandum circulated by the responsible Minister spells out the fact that the equalisation concept has been abolished by this Bill. The second point I wish to make is that, whether it is a deliberate intention or not, one of the effects of this changing concept, the philosophical basis behind the legislation, will be to perpetuate parochial jealousies. The Liberal Party, and even more so the Country Party, has successfully traded on the fear people in remote areas and in country areas generally have of governments, whether they be in Perth or in Canberra. They have peddled this nonsense, this myth that the Labor Party has a conspiracy. It is going to bring in regionalism, it is going to destroy local government, it is going to destroy State governments ultimately; all of this is one component of the great socialist centralist conspiracy. That is the sort of nonsense which was peddled in the countryside by the representatives of the Liberal and National Country Parties. It was peddled so successfully that some particularly gullible local councils, aided and abetted, of course, by Liberal Party hacks sitting on those councils, believed it. I refer in particular to the town council of Northam, which pompously asserted that it was not going to put in for a grant in 1 974 from the Whitlam socialist centralist government, and it did not apply for a grant. Therefore, of course, it did not get one, and at the end of that year the mayor of Northam had the audacity to complain that the Northam town council had suffered financially because of the Whitlam Labor Government. 
I have not finished the story yet,  Senator. 
I have not finished the story yet. The  President  of the Northam Branch of the Liberal Party,  Mr Bulloch-  I think  Mr Kelvin  Bulloch- then stated in a letter to the editor of the Northam  Advertiser  that 'by arrangement with our mayor I am replying to  Senator Walsh',  and particularly to my assertion that the Liberal Party's political influence on the Northam town council had been responsible for the council's rejection of that grant. I think it is supremely ironic that the  President  of the Northam Branch of the Liberal Party, signing himself as the  President  of that branch, should have said: 'By arrangement with our mayor, I deny the charge that the Liberal Party has infiltrated the Northam town council and is misusing its power on the Northam town council'. It is most unfortunate for the ratepayers of Northam that, firstly they had active members of the Liberal Party on the town council who were more concerned with pushing the Liberal Party's political barrow and political nonsense than they were with the welfare of the ratepayers of the town of Northam. It is even more unfortunate, of course, that the whole concept of regionalism, the notion and principle of regional cooperation, was undermined by the vicious, unprincipled tactics which were used by the Liberal and National Country Parties. That was unfortunate. It is tragic that one of the intentions of this Bill is to destroy permanently the concept of regionalism and the concept of regional cooperation. The Bill before us is a hybrid which has emerged from the conflict between the ideological prejudices of the Liberal Party and the reality of the world. Unfortunately, it does not have any hybrid vigour. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is it a fact that the power to issue cheques for unemployment benefit and similar payments is to be or has been withdrawn from regional offices such as that situated at Northam in Western Australia and that payments in future will be centralised from capital city offices? Will such a move lead to staff retrenchments in country offices? If not, for what reason should the payments system be centralised? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Will the Government index the supplementary income limit at which her Department issues pensioners medical cards and travel concession cards? I understand that currently it is $33 a week for a single person and $57 a week for a married couple. 
When  Senator Jessop  was speaking about an hour ago he mentioned again the alleged commitment that he and his Party have to freedom of choice for the individual. If my recollection of recent parliamentary history is correct,  Senator Jessop  sat for 3 years as a member in the House of Representatives servilely supporting a government which gave this free choice to a section of Australian youth- a free choice to be conscripted to fight in Vietnam or to serve 2 years in gaol. That is the sort of free choice that  Senator Jessop  supported when he sat in the House of Representatives supporting a government that offered that so called free choice to Australians between 1966 and 1969. 

 - Senator Sir Magnus Cormack has referred to guts. I might add that since the subject of guts has been raised, his remarks ought to be directed to those members of the Liberal Party who were of military age and who sat in this Parliament, voted for conscription and forced someone else to fight the war in Vietnam that they had led Australia into with a catalogue of lies. My colleague  Senator Wheeldon  already has mentioned that this statement of economic policy by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has illustrated yet again the Fraser Government's commitment to antediluvian ideas. He mentioned that no government in the Western world, since the days of Franklin Roosevelt, has ever had such a regressive view of the economy or of the direction of social development. It is worth putting in the  Hansard  record that although no other national government in the world supports such antediluvian views, the State Government in Western Australia does. I refer to  Hansard  of the Legislative Council of Western Australia of 14 April 1976. The Honourable Lyla Elliott had quoted an article from Richard Hall in the  Bulletin  in which  Mr Hall  had stated that we were seeing in Australia an attempt to put into operation an authentic 19th century conservative philosophy. That observation provoked this response from the  Hon.  G. C. MacKinnon, who is a Minister in the Government of Western Australia: 
What is wrong with that? 
Another of his ministerial colleagues in the Country Party, the  Hon.  N. E. Baxter, said: 
It is time we had something conservative. 
Then we have the punch line from the  Hon.  G. C. MacKinnon: 
A good workable economy of the type that made the British Empire famous. 
Although there is no national government in the Western world which is as antediluvian in its thinking as is the present Government in this city, there is, I regret, very temporarily a government with even more antediluvian views occupying the treasury bench in the State of Western Australia. A Minister in the Western Australian Government has actually stated that he wants to see a return to the days when England was not only the workshop of the world but also the host of the dark Satanic mills. 
-Yes, the philosophy of the workhouse, of the triangles, of the hangman's rope, as my colleague  Senator Mulvihill  reminds me. There is one thing in the statement tabled by the Treasurer and in the policy as announced by the Government which I must commend. The provision of increased child allowances will effectively redistribute income to the areas of greatest need. I commend the Government for having made this move which has extended one step further the major reform of the taxation system which was undertaken in the Hayden Budget of 1975. In my view the Government has not only underwritten this major reform of the previous Labor Government but has also actually extended it one step further and, I believe, marginally improved it. 
On the broad question of economic policy it is at any time difficult to predict what sorts of policies will produce particular responses from an economy. It is especially difficult to make predictions since the postwar era of easy and virtually painless growth has ended throughout the Western capitalist world. But it is clear that the major economic strategy of the present Government for the control of inflation and the ultimate restoration of economic growth or of full employment is pinned upon the Government's rather simplistic acceptance of the so-called Phillips curve- the doctrine that if unemployment is pushed up inflation will be pushed down as the 2 things cannot co-exist. While there is little doubt that if unemployment is pushed to extreme levels the Phillips curve doctrine still has some validity, on theoretical grounds and on the empirical evidence from the real world, within the levels of unemployment which even the most pessimistic assessors of this present Government would expect in Australia, it is highly unlikely that levels of employment of the magnitude of 5 per cent or 6 per cent or 7 per cent would be completely effective in controlling inflation. 
It has become more and more apparent in the last four or five years that inflation can be effectively controlled only if there is restraint on price increases from both the sellers of commodities and the sellers of labour. That sort of restraint requires arbitrary controls which are not available to a national government in this country. The situation may have been quite different if the Liberal Party had adopted a more rational attitude towards the 1973 referendum. That option is closed off, and the only remaining option is the so-called social compact. Of course, to succeed in implementing a social compact a national government must have a great deal of moral authority. The simple and sad fact is that the present Government is totally bereft of moral authority because of the sleazy circumstances- to use  Senator Hall's  succinct phrase- under which it seized power and the succession of repudiations of its pre-election policy in which it has indulged since it was elected to office in December last. 
Clearly there are also a number of errors and a good deal of slothful thought in this economic policy which has been presented. There are obsessions with obsolete and discredited ideas. Of course, the personification of this is  Mr Fraser  's simplistic pre-Keynesian belief that the management of national finances is analogous to the management of household finances. I do not believe that any other head of state in the Western world has expounded that doctrine since the Second World War. There was a much ridiculed figure who occupied a position in the Eisenhower Government in the United States in 1957 who rejected Keynesian economics and stuck by this simplistic notion that the management of national finances was analogous to the management of household finances. I do not believe there is another head of state in the world who believes that that is so. Secondly, the economic policy contains some demonstrable internal contradictions and contradictions between the assertions put out in the economic statement and the reality. I will return to that later. For example, it refers to Medibank. Yesterday in the House of Representatives it was revealed that Medibank could not effectively obtain the evidence it needs to implement the Government's announced policy unless the secrecy provisions of the taxation legislation were breached. That is indicative of the slothful and superficial thinking which lies behind this typically ideologically rooted change in Medibank which the Government has foreshadowed. 
Finally, the economic policy has demonstrated once again that the ideological prejudices, which this Government has in abundance, have triumphed over reason. Perhaps the most striking example of this is the investment allowance policy. Although it has been slightly modified since it was first introduced, the rationale behind the policy was that the only way to induce effective economic recovery was through an investment led recovery or an investment boom, and it was asserted that the way to do this was to provide very generous taxation concessions which would induce manufacturers and other producers to embark upon an expansion of their production base in the new investment program, and so on. Bulletin No. 5.7 which was issued, I think, today by the Australian Bureau of Statistics records private capital expenditure for the March 1976 quarter. At the end of my speech I will seek leave to have the sections of this table which I have marked incorporated in  Hansard. 
What this table shows is that on a seasonally adjusted basis capital investment in the March quarter increased by only $15m. It rose from $ 1,339m to $ 1,354m. In real terms, private capital investment exclusive of agriculture in that first quarter when the investment allowance was operative in fact declined. So quite apart from all the theoretical reasons why the investment allowance would be ineffective in stimulating new investment, the actual statistical information available to date demonstrates that to the present time it has been totally ineffective as indeed anyone would have expected it to be. 
Not only has this been extremely costly. The estimated cost to revenue next year is $500m. To have wasted $500m-it has been wasted in the sense that this Government uses the term waste'- is deplorable enough in itself. But let us consider the whole concept of economic management this Government has which focuses on just one aspect, namely the size of the deficit. Because  Mr Fraser  still believes that Neimeyer and Gibson were correct; because  Mr Fraser  has this obsession which he has foisted upon his Party; because this Government has wasted $500m in that area, it has cut $500m ofl public capital investment in other areas. Inevitably, this must have a direct effect on the level of employment and ultimately, as always after a primary reduction of employment, a multiplier effect. 
Indeed, I believe that at least one senior member of the Liberal Party has been acknowledging in recent weeks that the investment allowance constitutes a classic example of the foolishness of entering into firm commitments long before an election to implement certain policies, no matter how inapplicable those policies may be to the reality which exists at the time the Government implements them. The only statement which I could add to that is that that policy was never appropriate. It was something which was seen by some members of the Liberal Party as a bribe to the business community, and by others as an approach which suited their ideological prejudices. I will say somewhat more about this subject of the investment allowance when the Bills are being debated. 
I agreed not to speak for very long tonight but I wish to make just 2 more points. Firstly, I wish to explode the myth that by indexing income taxes this Government has reduced the level of taxation  vis-a-vis  what it is in 1 975-76. What this Government has done with its indexation of personal taxes is to restore the level of taxation which prevailed under the Hayden Budget in 1975. If the level of real income remained precisely the same in the following year, the proportion of that real income collected in taxation likewise will remain the same. So, if the only change that the Government had made was the introduction of indexation, the level of personal taxation would be the same in the next financial year as it has been in this year. 
Students of history would be fascinated by the powerful remarks of assorted spokesmen for the Liberal Party when the Hayden Budget was introduced last year. They asserted that it was a crippling and punitive level of taxation such as would never be inflicted upon the Australian people by any government. I notice that they themselves have opted for precisely that level of taxation, but they have added something to it, of course. They have added a Medibank levy. What this Government has done in fact is to increase personal taxation  vis-a-vis  what it has been in this financial year. I am very disappointed that that fairly elementary truth does not seem to have been noted in the Press and does not seem to be widely appreciated in the Australian community. It is an inarguable fact. 
I turn next to the alleged economies about which this Government has boasted. Somewhere in his statement of Thursday last the Treasurer said that outlays would be less than the Budget estimates this year because of the Government's good management and so on. What do those alleged economies include? I will name just 3 items. These economies for which the Government claims that its alleged good management is responsible include a $93m discrepancy between the estimates for the expenditure on Medibank and the actual expenditure, $80m which was appropriated for use by the Australian Wool Corporation for the purchase of stocks and which has not been used because sales of wool have balanced purchases, and $75m for the capital expansion of the Australian Industries Development Corporation which the AIDC again decided it would not use. From those 3 areas we find a total and wholly incidental and windfall saving, if one can use that term, of $248 m. It is completely dishonest for the Government to assert that its alleged economic management is responsible for savings such as those which are of a coincidental or incidental nature. 
In conclusion I make a moral appeal to the Government, if indeed there is any morality on the Government side. Since it is quite clear that the lynchpin of the Government's economic strategy is the maintenance of high levels of unemployment, or even marginal increases in the level of unemployment, I appeal to the Government to stop its cynical and continuous vilification of the unemployed people who are the victims of its callous and ill-conceived policies.  Mr President,  I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the table to which I earlier referred. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In some respects it is similar to questions asked earlier by  Senator Button  and  Senator Harradine.  Bearing in mind that people in the sparsely populated areas of 
Australia are almost entirely dependent upon the Australian Broadcasting Commission for radio and television services, will the Minister seek from the responsible Minister a guarantee that the financial cuts imposed upon the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which are in the vicinity of 17 per cent in real terms, will not deprive these people of their only regular and continuous link with the rest of Australia? Specifically, will the Minister ask his colleague to withdraw his order to the Australian Broadcasting Commission to defer the installation of translators which would provide a better service in the country? 
-The Bill that is being considered by the Senate now is designed to institute the change foreshadowed by the Government in March, I think it was, this year when it suspended the previous export levy charges for brucelloris and tuberculosis eradication and for meat export inspection services. From the comments just made by  Senator Kilgariff  I am not sure whether he is aware of the fact that this particular Bill deals only with the previous 0.6c export levy for tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication. The figure that he quoted of $4.80 per beast of 300 pounds dressed carcass weight clearly applies to the total meat export inspection and the tuberculosis and brucellosis levy, which would have produced a total levy of $4.80 per beast, as the honourable senator said. If the honourable senator is clear on this it was not indicated in his speech. I do not know whether he recognises that this particular levy per head slaughtered which is proposed is a replacement only for the tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication levy and not for the combined levy which applied prior to 1 March. 
Given the necessity of sustaining a tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication campaign and the justice of the notion that the industry ought to contribute substantially, if not entirely, to the cost of that campaign, it has been argued- I think there is some rationality behind the argument- that it would be fairer to impose a levy on all cattle slaughtered rather than simply on that component of total slaughtering which is exported. Although there is something to be said for that, I think one must repeat some of the reservations which I have and which the Industries Assistance Commission had about the effectiveness of the suspension of an export levy in terms of transferring income to the industry. 
The point has been made before that in an extreme buyer's market- surely no one imagines that the international beef market currently is anything but an extreme buyer's market- it is probable that any export subsidy will be received not by the Australian producer or even the Australian exporter but by the foreign buyer. As yet, no decisive evidence is available. Given all the other variables which could come into operation and the relatively minor magnitude of that levy, it would be difficult ever to prove a decisive case. The figures which are available with respect to price changes are for between February and March of this year. The importance of those dates is that the levies-that is, the one relating to this Bill and the other relating to the meat export inspection service- were suspended on 1 March. If the suspension of those levies had been effective in terms of rising prices received by producers or exporters, naturally that could be expected to show up in higher saleyard prices. I have in front of me a table which was prepared by the Library statistical service. It shows an index of average monthly prices for beef at principal livestock markets in Australia right through from January 1975 to 1976. 1 shall seek leave to incorporate this table in  Hansard  at the conclusion of my speech. The table shows that from February 1975 to March 1975- that is, last year when there was no change in the levy- there was a price increase in the livestock market in every State, whereas from February to March 1976, and in the latter month the levy had been suspended, there was a major fall in 2 selling centres, that is Sydney and Brisbane, a major rise in Melbourne and no significant change elsewhere. 
I am not arguing that these figures demonstrate decisively that no benefit at all was received by Australian exporters or beef producers as a result of the suspension of the levy; but, whatever credibility can be attached to those figures, they certainly suggest that the benefit of the levy was received by the overseas buyer rather than by the Australian seller. Those figures might not prove anything decisively, but they lean very heavily towards the view that the overseas buyer was the beneficiary, not the Australian seller. I notice that in today's  West Australian  a member of the Australian Meat Board,  Mr J.  P. Dempster, appears to corroborate that interpretation. The newspaper article reports  Mr Dempster  as stating: 
Australian exporters are cutting the throat of the nation's meat industry by selling beef at discount prices to Japan. 
Later the article states: 

 Mr Dempster told the Commission that exporters were ruining the Japanese market in a bid to earn diversification entitlements to sell meat to the United States. 
In other words, to the degree that the provision of free export inspection services- that is tantamount to an export subsidy, of course- has made it possible for exporters further to undercut prices for Japan,  Mr Dempster  seems to believe that this is what has happened. 
The beef industry not only encompasses specialist beef producers but also is integrated with the Australian dairy industry. At the moment the dairy industry is in severe economic trouble, for a variety of reasons, not the least of which is the dramatic collapse in the market for skim milk powder caused by the accumulation of stocks in the European Economic Community. Notwithstanding that perhaps substantially unforeseeable factor, the problems of the dairy industry go back for many years and could not be said to have been unforeseeable. Claude Forell, in an article in the Melbourne  Age  of 20 
May 1976- that is, last Thursday- in relation to the Australian dairy industry and its current problems had this to say: 
Most dairy farmers are sturdy, hard-working and eager to stand on their own feet . . . 
My contempt is for the self-seeking, short-sighted agropoliticians of the dairying industry and the vote-grubbing bush-whackers in our State and Federal Parliaments. 
Later in the article he said: 
The plight of the dairy farmer has been building up for decades and none else is more culpable for it than the cynical extortionists of the Country Party and their fellow-travelling backwoodsmen in the Liberal Party. 
The reason is plain. These politicians would sooner have a multitude of struggling small farmers foolish enough to vote for them than relatively few prosperous farmers who might not vote for them or would be numerous enough to maintain their power base . . . 
We have to include extravagant irrigation schemes, which cost the community a fortune it could never recoup, boosted land values that encouraged farmers to buy in at prices they couldn't afford, and added to farm surpluses and surplus farmers. 
Then there were the closer settlement schemes, some of them disastrous, most of them unnecessary, all of them expensive. Until recently, the Victorian Government was still opening up more land for dairy farms- when elsewhere farmers were going broke by the score! 
He has put very succinctly the situation and the role which has been played by the Victorian Government, in particular, over a long time towards making inevitable the dairy industry's present problems. I have only this comment to add to  Mr Forell  's excellent assessment: I discovered just this week- I was staggered to make this discovery- that as late as this year people were allocated new dairy farms at Rochester in Victoria under the aegis of the State Government through its land settlement scheme. People were being placed on irrigated dairy farms at Rochester this year, when blind Freddy should have been able to see that any scheme or policy which expanded the production base of the dairy industry was precisely the opposite of what was needed. Can anyone imagine a situation more absurd than that which has been not only countenanced but also engineered by the Government of Victoria? Problem dairy farms are being created at Rochester. Irrigation water is being supplied to these new problem dairy farms at about half its true economic cost. Subsidised fertilisers are being used to produce pastures and ultimately to produce butter, which is extremely difficult to sell at a margin, and skim milk powder, which currently the Australian Dairy Corporation is attempting to flog off in Japan as stock feed. Could anyone imagine a more absurd situation than the one I have just outlined, engineered by the Liberal Government of Victoria, no doubt with the enthusiastic support of the Victorian Country Party, although it is not in a coalition government. The final absurdity, of course, is that these people belong to the political parties which claim some special competence in the area of economic management. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Now that indexation is all the rage will the Government, in accordance with the recommendations of the Farmers Union of Western Australia, among other organisations, and in conformity with the strident demands of many of the Minister's own colleagues just 12 months to 15 months ago, index the reserve price of wool for the 1976-77 season and thereby maintain the real value of the Labor Government's assistance to the industry? 
-The 6 Bills which we are debating cognately this evening cover a great number of taxation issues. I shall not attempt to cover them all. My remarks will be directed, firstly, towards the indexation Bills which are the last 3 Bills listed on the notice paper for cognate debate and also to the investment allowance Bill- the first one listed- which, among other things, covers the implementation of the Government's policy of a 40 per cent investment allowance. 
I must say that I am a little surprised that  Senator Messner  thought it would be advantageous to himself or to the Liberal Party to resurrect the question of section 31a of the Income Tax Assessment Act and its effect on the wine producers. I have before me a letter dated 17 May 1976 and signed by  Mr D.  R. Mcwilliam, the General Manager of Mcwilliams' Wines Pty Ltd. Of course, as we all know  Mr Mcwilliam  could scarcely be regarded as a raving leftist or a supporter of the Australian Labor Pary. Indeed,  Mr Mcwilliam  himself or his company circulated just before the last Federal election a letter which was tantamount to a threat of dismissal to all of his employees if the Labor Party were returned at the election on 13 December 1975. So, on the authority of someone with such a well known and publicly established record of opposition to the Labor Party, I quote what  Mr Mcwilliam  said: 
The present Government has now given wine makers a longer period in which to pay but it has not fulfilled its election promise, a promise made by the Honourable P. Lynch on 19.6.1975. to 'abolish Labor's new stock valuation system'. 
Of course, we have learned since then that remarks and promises made by members of the present Government in the period prior to 13 December 1975, and in particular those remarks and promises- the absolute guarantees- made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  himself, on his own admission on the  Monday Conference  television program last week were valid only for the period of the election campaign. Of course, they were all cancelled on 13 December last. So, on the Prime Minister's own admission, we have a position that goes beyond the confirmation of the charge laid in the  National Times  newspaper in about June of last year that the more one looked at the then Opposition- the Liberal and National Country Parties- the more they looked like a shonky insurance company rather than an alternative government. The  National Times  said that when you got to the fine print you found that the cover was cancelled. The modern or most recent variant of that is the Prime Minister's admission on  Monday Conference  last week, once we reached 13 December 1975, all his pre-election promises ceased to have any validity. It is only a matter of time before the Australian electorate as a whole recognises that that is so. 
I turn to deal with the question of tax indexation. My Leader,  Senator Wriedt,  already has made the point that indexing taxation does not mean that taxes will be lower. By discretionary adjustments in the taxation table itself one can put the level of taxation or the general incidence of taxation up or down regardless of whether taxes are indexed. All that indexation meansthis is the most succinct definition that is possibleis that the proportion of income paid in tax will remain constant providing other relevant factors such as the level of real income of taxpayers, the number of dependants and so on, remain constant. 
I will seek to incorporate in  Hansard  at the end of my speech tables that rather forcefully illustrate this point, demonstrating that a result similar to that which will flow from the Government's indexation policy operative for the next financial year was achieved in the 1974-75 and the 1975-76 Budgets by the then Labor Government. The 3 tables that I will seek leave to incorporate show the proportion of income paid in taxation in the years 1973-74, 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77 inclusive. Naturally, the figures for 1976-77 represent an estimate but the assumptions underlying the estimate are stated in the table. The proportion of income paid as taxation for all of those years for 3 categories of taxpayers is shown. These are the single person on a median income of 10 per cent below average weekly earnings, the taxpayer on a median income with a dependant spouse and 2 children and- the taxpayer on average weekly earnings with a dependant spouse and 2 children. 1 mention in passing that those 3 categories either encompass or very closely approximate the majority of Australian taxpayers. 
For all of those taxpayers the proportion of income paid in taxation in those 4 years has remained constant with these slight abberations: For example, the single taxpayer in 1976-77 will be paying 18.5 per cent in tax as against 16.38 per cent in the 1975-76 financial year under the Hayden Budget. The other 2 notable features for taxpayers with dependant spouse and 2 children are that there was a significant fall in the proportion of income paid in taxation in 1975-76 pursuant to the introduction of the tax rebate system and that there will be a significant rise in 1976-77 in the proportion of income paid in taxation by taxpayers in those categories. To be absolutely fair and objective, I also mention that that quite significant increase in taxation paid will be offset or slightly more than offset by the payment of the family allowances; that is, by the increased family allowances which the Government has forecast its intention to pay. 
The picture which emerges, contrary to that which is popularly asserted, and which it suits our political opponents to assert, is that taxes defined in the most accurate way as a proportion of income did not continuously escalate under the Labor Government; nor have they declined under the indexation policy which has now been accepted by the present Government. Indeed, it is not surprising that the taxes have not declined under that indexation policy because all that this Government has done by indexing income tax is to re-impose the level of taxation which was imposed by the Labor Government for the financial year commencing July 1976. This Government has just restored the same level of taxation that was prevailing in 1975. If inflation continues throughout the next financial year at the same rate as in the current financial year, as it almost certainly will, the proportion that this Government rips off, to use the emotive term of which our opponents are so fond, in the form of taxation will be precisely the same as it was in the previous year. In addition to that, this Government proposes to impose a21/2 per cent levy to finance Medibank. Granted, a ceiling will apply to that levy. But that action is conceptually indistinguishable from any other form of income tax and must be regarded as such. So it is a myth that taxes continuously escalated under the Labor Government. It is a myth that taxes have been reduced by the present Liberal Government. 
Having said that, I wish to make a personal qualification. I do not necessarily support a policy of lower taxes; nor do I believe or accept and I will quote the evidence for this assertion that direct taxation in Australia has reached intolerable levels and that it is a matter of economic necessity that that taxation be reduced. In fact, if we look around the world we find that countries with such high average incomes, with such good economic growth rates and with such reasonable records of control of inflation and unemployment I refer to countries such as the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Denmark and even the United States of America have considerably higher levels of taxation than prevail in Australia. Conversely, we find that some of the most lowly taxed countries in the world include places like Nicaragua, Hong Kong and Brazil. It is patently absurd and it is contradicted by facts from the real world to argue that economic prosperity is threatened by the level of taxation currently prevailing in Australia. A number of countries equally as or more prosperous than Australia have higher levels of taxation. Those countries which must be regarded as being economically depressed or generally economically depressed have levels of taxation significantly lower. 
I turn to the question of the investment allowance. I was appalled to discover in the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 20 May 1976 that the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  who is generally regarded, I think, and certainly regarded by me, as being one of the more enlightened and competent members of the Liberal Party, clearly does not have an accurate conceptual grasp of what this investment allowance is about. He stated: 
The money provided - 
Through the investment allowance-  is in the nature of a loan from the Government in the sense that when the companies are operating at something like their optimum level they will be paying company tax to the Government. 
That assessment could be accurately used to describe the policy of accelerated depreciation or of complete deduction for purposes of taxable income for the year in which it has incurred expenditure on the purchase of capital equipment. But this policy is not a policy of accelerated depreciation or for total write-off in the year of purchase. This policy enables a taxpayer making capital purchases which qualify to claim not 100 per cent deduction from taxable income but 140 per cent from taxable income. This is a most important conceptual difference. 
It is not a question of allowing companies or individuals to defer effectively the payment of taxation by rapidly writing off their capital expenditure. It is a policy which enables them permanently to avoid paying taxation because they are able to claim more than the cost of the capital item as a tax deduction. The level of irrationality or the conflict between the assertions of Government spokesmen and the factual evidence available which is relevant to the subject in this instance has not been surpassed by any policy introduced by this Government other than for the superphosphate bounty. The level of irrationality with respect to the 2 actions is comparable. This one is much more obnoxious because it is infinitely more expensive. It has been estimated by the Government itself to cost $470m in the next financial year. 
The Government's commitment to this policy seems to have twin origins. Firstly, there was the theory that was vociferously propounded and that now, I notice, has been largely discounted or cast aside, that Australia had to have an investmentled recovery and that the only way to restore economic growth was to have an investment- led boom that would ultimately, because of the multiplier effects on incomes that the investment-led boom generated, become a consumer recovery. It is a theory which, to his credit,  Senator Cotton  publicly disowned as early as, I think, February of this year. It now seems to have been disowned by most of the Government's spokesmen. But, of course, the Government, by the time it finally realised that its investmentled recovery theories were substantially if not entirely invalid, was firmly committed to this policy. In fact, if the promises of the Liberal Party of Australia are to be given any credencereasonable experience suggests that they should be given very little credence- the Liberal Party was committed to it in mid- 1975. It was seen by the Government at one stage as being the Lynch' pin- pardon the pun- of its program for economic recovery. 
The second root or origin of this policy seems to have been a simplistic belief that is lamentably prevalent in the Liberal Party that a tax dodge is a panacea that will cure every problem. I suppose it springs from the residual 19th century belief or the 19th century belief that is still extant in the Liberal Party that taxation is somehow or other immoral and that therefore any policy or any method which enables a group or a particular person either to avoid taxation entirely or to pay very much less in taxes is highly commendable. It has a simplistic belief that a tax dodge is the way to solve every problem and that if there is depression in a particular industry a tax dodge is always preferable to a subsidy and so on. 
The importance that the Government attached to that particular policy was spelt out as recently as 6 May by the Treasurer in a Press release when he said that the allowance itself was an outstanding feature of the Government's program for getting the economy on the move again. There were, of course, and there still are very compelling theoretical reasons why this policy would not succeed in getting the economy on the move again. As the honourable member for Balaclava acknowledged in his speech on 20 May and as many other Government spokesmen have acknowledged, it is rather difficult to persuade companies to embark upon an expanded or new investment program when they already have a surplus capacity. 
The honourable member for Balaclava assessed the current utilisation of capacity by Australian manufacturing industry to be as low as 70 per cent. Commonsense would lead one to the belief that when companies already have that much surplus capacity and that when many companies already have some sort of liquidity problem it is extremely difficult, to say the least, to persuade them to embark upon a new investment program even though substantial tax rip-offs are available. Of course it is quite impossible, irrespective of whether one can persuade them to do so, for them to embark upon new or expanded investment programs if they do not have the initial funds to outlay or if they are not in a position to borrow them. 
More important than that rather commonsense theory, of course, is the fact that the evidence available to date shows that the Government's policy has dismally failed. The most recent evidence that I have- this evidence came out only last week, so I doubt whether there is anything more recent- is the Bureau of Statistics publication  New Capital Expenditure by Private Businesses in Australia,  which has the reference number 5.7 and which shows that on a seasonally adjusted basis the new capital investment for all industries excluding agriculture for the March quarter of this year, although marginally higher than the December quarter, being only 1 per cent higher, was lower than it had been in the September quarter of last year and in the June quarter of last year. 
The actual figures for the 4 quarters commencing June 1975 are $l,366m, $l,372m, $l,339m and $ 1,354m. They are the actual figures. If one were to correct them by applying a deflator or to express them in terms of constant money values one would find that in fact the investment in all industries excluding agriculture in the March quarter was the lowest that it has been for 12 months. In case someone should think that I am distorting the position by quoting the seasonally adjusted figures, I point out that on the original figures the investment for the March quarter was $167m lower than it had been in any of the preceding quarters. So the seasonally adjusted figures provide the most favourable possible interpretation from the Government's point of view. 

 Mr Lynch has not only asserted that the policy is central to the Government's plans for economic recovery or for economic growth and that it is working; he has also become very specific. The speech from which I am about to quote is actually  Senator Cotton's  second reading speech, but I am not holding  Senator Cotton  responsible for it. He is only acting on behalf of  Mr Lynch  in this House.  Senator Cotton  said: 
The evidence is that investment, particularly in manufacturing industry, has begun to move ahead. 
Again I quote from the same Bureau of Statistics publication the figures for the total manufacturing capital expenditure for the last 4 quarters commencing June 1975. They are $428m, $346m, $355m and $319m. New capital investment in the manufacturing industry in the March quarter of this year was not only the lowest it has been for the last 4 quarters but also the lowest figure recorded on a quarterly basis for more than 2 years. Those are the facts. Notwithstanding the facts, the Treasurer of Australia has the audacity to assert that the evidence is that investment, particularly in the manufacturing industry, has begun to move ahead. 
I made it quite clear before that I am not holding  Senator Cotton  responsible for that. I know that he reads in good faith what his colleague the Treasurer provides. I do not hold  Senator Cotton  responsible for the gross factual error in the second reading speech. 
The next point is that the major rationale for the introduction of this policy has been the desire to restore full employment or at least to make a significant contribution to the restoration of full employment. Once again the honourable member for Balaclava, after acknowledging the difficulties in inducing additional capital investment at a time when industry is already operating at a surplus capacity, said that because of the inducement and because the inducement was extending over a period of time the investment allowance was working and new capital investment had been stimulated. Firstly, as I have already made clear, the facts contradict his assertion, but what I am interested in at this stage is the logic. If it is correct that an investment allowance will stimulate investment in manufacturing, even though in the short term there is already surplus capacity, one would expect that the most effective way of coercing or cajoling business into embarking upon a new investment program would be to tell business that an investment allowance is available this financial year or this calendar year and that if business has not taken advantage of it by then it is not on thereafter. That sort of logic was adopted by the Whitlam Government in early 1975 to clear the stocks of 
Australian made motor vehicles. The actual mechanism, of course, was to reduce sales tax. It was highly successful, bearing in mind that at the time the announcement was made it was quite explicit that the sales tax would be restored progressively, until in about 6 months time it was right back to its former level. The message was given to car buyers that cars would be available at relatively cheap prices for two or three months and that if they wanted to take advantage of this they should get out in the next two or three months and buy cars. That is what people did, because by and large people are irrational. 
What this Government has done, recognising that there is surplus capacity and that it is difficult to induce business to invest, is to say: We are going to provide an investment allowance because we want to stimulate investment by you, particularly in the short term. The spending on capital equipment will generate employment in the capital goods industries and, because of its multiplier effects, throughout the economy as a whole. We are going to provide this investment allowance because we want you to invest in the next 3 months, 6 months, next week.' It then brought in legislation to provide a 40 per cent allowance for 3 years and a 20 per cent allowance for 5 years thereafter. It is mind boggling that if the objective is to achieve an increase in the level of investment in difficult circumstances the Government could have legislated to provide this allowance for that time period. This legislation will be passed because facts and logic do not have anything to do with what legislation gets through this chamber, any more than States' rights do. The legislation will be passed and we will then have on the statute book a subsidy for capital investment to business operative at 40 per cent for 3 years and at 20 per cent for 5 years thereafter. It is quite conceivable that within a couple of years we could be back in a situation of excessive demand, partly induced by the demand for capital goods. We would then have on the statute book a policy which is totally inapplicable to the economic management needs of the day. 
It is possible that the Act will be repealed in those circumstances. It is possible, I suppose, although if the present Government is still in power I would think it is highly unlikely. So we are going to be stuck not only with the short term cost, not only with the enormous expense of this policy, but also with a policy which is costly and which within 2 and certainly 3 years could well be exacerbating a condition of excessive demand. In the longer term, and bearing in mind still that the major rationale for this policy is the alleged desire to create jobs, to use the Prime Minister's favourite phrase, what the Government is doing is subsidising the substitution of capital for labour. The Government, through the tax system, pays to a company anyway an effective subsidy of 16 per cent on capital. If it wants to restore just equilibrium in the trade-off between capital and labour it should also be subsidising wages through the tax system to the extent of 16 per cent. It has not done that. The Government is subsidising capital by private business; it is not subsidising labour. And by and large, in the long term anyway, private business reacts rationally to the realities in which it operates. Without doubt, sooner or later private business will substitute capital for labour, partly because of the subsidies provided by this Government, and all of this in the name of generating additional employment. 
That is not just a fancy theory. I will present a piece of evidence upon which one could possibly place 2 alternatives, each of them equally unpalatable to the present Government, I should imagine. The Swan Brewery Company Ltd, which is the only company producing beer in Western Australia, on 9 March this year announced that it will retrench 350 of its employees when its new $50m Canning Vale brewery is completed in 1978. The new brewery, like a lot of new factories, is very capital intensive. It has a lot of automated equipment and so on. Although it will be turning out just as much or more beer than ever, it will require a 35 per cent smaller labour force and, pursuant to the construction of that new brewery, 350 people will be displaced from jobs. That will not be caused directly by the investment allowance because the Swan Brewery announced as early as October 1 975 that it was going to proceed with this building program. The facts can be looked at in 2 ways. On the one hand, it could be said that the Government through its investment allowance policy is subsidising the destruction of 350 jobs in the name of creating jobs. On the other hand, it could be said that the Government's investment allowance had absolutely nothing to do with the brewery's decision since the decision predated the election of the Government and its announcement that it was going to legislate for this allowance. If we accept that interpretation, what the Government has done L provide a windfall gain to the Swan Brewery Company of some $8. 5m, which is approximately the ultimate tax saving which will accrue to the brewery because of the investment allowance. Of course, the Government is still stuck with the difficulty that for an effective expenditure of $8.5m it has not generated any additional employment because the brewery was going to go ahead and build this plant in any case. 
From the history of this legislation, through its embryonic stages, we can deduce quite clearly that the Treasury was appalled by this policy, as well it should have been. Immediately it set about doing what it could to trim it back, somehow to reduce the enormous cost to revenue which would flow from it. The Treasury's first attempt to do this was to persuade the Government to disqualify individual items of capital expenditure below $ 1 ,000, and it was announced by the Treasurer that that would be so. Then the pressures came on from outside, and many of the Government's supporters and their organisations squealed. The Government then caved in and said that it would exempt individual items below $500 and in the area between $500 and $1,000 it would have a shading in area. That is the way the legislation finally turned out. The Government committed itself to a foolish policy. The Treasury tried to extricate it from some of the cost of that foolish policy. Political pressures were then applied from outside and the Government settled for an extremely complex and clumsy final compromise. 
The other provisions which indicate the scant attention given to the legislation when the Government first committed itself to it are the provisions for leasing. The vagueness of the provisions for leasing were criticised by, among other people, the honourable member for Balaclava who said in his speech on 20 May: 
We certainly hope that the discrimination which is currently brought about by this Bill in respect of the hire industry will be eliminated after due consideration over the weekend. 
He expressed the hope that the Government would introduce an amendment which would place leased equipment on the same basis from the point of view of taxation gain as equipment which was purchased outright. Obviously, at the time that the Government introduced this legislation it had not thought of all the complexities which would flow from the leasing arrangements. The Government has been criticised by such august and extremely conservative bodies as the Taxpayers Association for its sloth in this area. 
I have been lectured many times as a captive audience by  Senator Wright  at committee meetings on the matter of simplicity in the law. I agree with  Senator Wright's  general proposition that it is highly desirable that the law be as concise and as simple as possible, provided it adequately covers the subject. But as a result of the provision of this Bill that refers to investment allowances we have no fewer than 19 additional pages of complex legal jargon setting out qualifications, exemptions and so on. Much of it, of course, is concerned with this attempt to clarify the legislation's provisions with respect to leasing. Apparently, in the judgment of many well qualified people it is an unsuccessful attempt. The Income Tax Assessment Act was once described by Professor Ronald Gates who I think is a friend of the present Government as being a document so lengthy and complex that no person actually understood it. Yet this legislation will now have 19 pages added to it. 
There is no evidence available at this stage to prove this or otherwise, but I am quite happy to go on record as predicting that when evidence eventually comes to hand it will show that there is probably one area in which the Government's investment allowance has succeeded in stimulating purchases that would not have been undertaken otherwise. I refer to a subsection of agriculture and in particular to affluent grain growers and affluent sugar cane growers. This was the subject of a question I asked of  Senator Cotton  a way back on 25 February. I referred  Senator Cotton  to a forecast which had been printed in The Australian Financial Review. The source of the forecast, by the way, was the sales projections of the distributors of the machines referred to in the forecast. The newspaper articles forecast that 546 tractors with power in excess of 162 kilowatts, which I think is about 250 horse power in the old terminology, would be sold this year. The units referred to cost a little above or below $50,000 each so the total market price of those 546 units would have been $27m, the investment allowance would have been $ 10m and the loss to revenue, given the very high marginal rates of taxation which most wheat growers are currently paying, would probably have been in the vicinty of $5m.  Senator Cotton  answered the question that day by saying that I was quoting from a newspaper report and he did not know whether the report was correct or not. So I followed the matter up the next day by acknowledging that my source of information was mainly a newspaper report and that I could not guarantee the accuracy of the assessments. But I asked  Senator Cotton  that day: 
Does the Government have its own estimates relevant to this question? If so, will the Minister present them to the Senate? If not, is the  Government  flying blind on this issue without any idea of the consequences or costs of its policy? 

 Senator Cotton replied: 
I sent the question the honourable member asked me yesterday through to the Treasury for a more definite answer, but it has been my experience with the Treasury that it is not noted for giving money away. I think the honourable senator will find when the facts are available they will dispel his doubts. 
If the Treasury has replied and made available its expectations and forecasts they certainly have not been made available to me. I agree with  Senator Cotton  on the point that the Treasury is not noted for giving money away and I should certainly be astounded if the Treasury recommended this particular policy to the Government. Bearing in mind, once again, that the rationale for this policy is the belief that it will generate employment in manufacturing industryin the capital goods industry- in Australia and that it will thereby lead the investment-led recovery, the really crucial point about these 546 tractors which it is expected will be purchased by affluent wheat growers is that all of these machines are imported. So to whatever degree this investment allowance induced wheat growers to buy these particular machines, it would not have any effect on the level of employment in Australian manufacturing industry other than in respect of the few things that might be added to those machines in Australia- a battery and a few things like that. So the gain there would be minimal and even that minimal gain would probably be negatived when all the facts were considered. 
Farmers, probably wheat farmers in particular, are very loath to pay taxation, to say the least. In fact, it was once very accurately stated that such management strategies as are applied by wheat farmers in Western Australia are directed towards minimising taxation instead of towards maximising incomes. I think that that was a very astute observation. Given the propensity of farmers to rush eagerly to accept any proposition which might give them the opportunity to minimise their income tax burden, even though it may not maximise their net income, it is quite conceivable that many farmers were induced by the Government's investment allowance policy to buy those particular machines. Had they not been induced to buy these extremely expensive imported machines they would have settled for smaller tractors which probably would have been made in Australia. So on balance in this particular area the probable final effect of this investment allowance policy is to reduce the level of employment in manufacturing industry within Australia. The situation of sugar cane harvesters, of course, is somewhat different. Once again, they are extremely expensive but I understand that virtually all, if not all of them are made in Australia. So perhaps there would be a marginal gain to the level of employment among those few small manufacturers that make harvesting machinery for sugar cane. 
As a final thought, still looking at the position of these farmers and this tax dodging syndrome, 2 factors are operative. I am familiar with the psychology of wheat farmers, particularly in Western Australia. They get caught up with 2 things- a rabid desire to avoid paying income tax if they possibly can, usually legally but not always legally - 
I agree with  Senator Harradine,  but it has reached a level of development among these people which is not generally applicable in Australian society. These farmers have a rabid desire to avoid paying income tax and also a failure to think through properly the wisdom of their capital investments. Of course, they have a desire also to keep up with what everyone else in the district is doing. If  Senator Wright,  who is attempting to interject, wants to make a speech I hope he will get up and make a speech about the desirability of simplicity in the law and that he will tell us that he is opposed to this particular piece of legislation because it adds 19 pages of complex legal gobbledygook to the Income Tax Assessment Act, which is already incomprehensible. 
-Of the complexity of the legislation? 
-I thank  Senator Wright.  I am pleased to see that he agrees. I apologise to  Senator Wright.  I will be even more pleased to see him over here voting with the Opposition. The point I am making- I apologise for being a bit long-winded- is that there is a deplorable tendency among farmers, wheat farmers in particular, to dissipate in years of high income their windfall gains. They have had extraordinarily high incomes in the last few years because of a concurrence of favourable prices and generally favourable seasons. They have a propensity to dissipate their windfall gains, to invest irrationally and to over-invest in all sorts of gadgetry and superfluous extravagant equipment without being encouraged by the Government to do so. 
I regret that the Government has provided this additional incentive to this group of farmers to behave even more irrationally than they otherwise would have done. Ultimately it will be to their own disadvantage. Even those people who are not particularly familiar with agriculture know that farmers' incomes fluctuate violently for a variety of reasons. Within two or three years it is quite conceivable that some of these wheat farmers who are gaily buying $50,000 tractors and $40,000 trucks today, spurred on by the Government's investment allowance, will rue the day when they dissipated so much of their current high incomes on those frequently unnecessary purchases. 
Five hundred and forty farmers is not a great number, but I am talking about only those who will buy the big tractors. There are something like 50 000 wheat growers in Australia; but only 40 000 could be seriously considered as commercial growers, because the other 10 000 grow very little. Certainly it is a small number of farmers who are buying these particular items of equipment. Although the figures will not be available for 12 months, I do not believe that the magnitude of the capital invested in wheat farming would be low; likewise I believe that it will be affected significantly by this measure. It has fluctuated very wildly in the past. The Green Paper showed that in 1968 new capital investment in wheat-sheep farming was some $75m; 3 years later it was down to $ 14m. That, for people who are interested in the effects of the backward linkage, has drastic effects on the Australian farm machinery manufacturers, as it did on the Massey Ferguson and International Harvester companies in 1971. It is a small number of farmers who are buying $50,000 tractors and $40,000 trucks; that is true. I do not believe, even though that is a small number, that the amount of money involved is insignificant. A probable cost to revenue of $5m is hardly to be sneezed at. 
The amount, for example, would be welcomed by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It might help the ABC to maintain its television and radio programs in rural areas. I am sorry that no one from the National Country Party is in the chamber to give its views on whether radio and television programs in rural areas ought to be cut, particularly as the ABC radio and television programs are the only ones which are available in many parts of rural Australia. The amount involved is not a small sum. When the figures finally come out I think we will see that the sum is quite significant. 
The investment allowance will achieve very little in terms of generating employment within Australia, because so much of this very expensive equipment is imported and some of that which is imported replaces what otherwise would have been purchased from Australian sources. Finally, I question very seriously whether it will be in the ultimate interests of the wheat farmers, bearing in mind that only a fool would think that the Australian wheat industry, or the Australian sugar industry for that matter, will be as prosperous forever as they have been for the last 3 years. 
I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the tables to which I referred earlier. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it accepted that the drug Paracetamol can cause irreparable liver damage; if so, do the tablets freely sold as Panadol and Paradene contain Paracetamol. 
Are there any restrictions on the sale and use of Paracetamol; if not, what restrictions on the sale and use of Paracetamol are envisaged. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications concerns the proposed television translator at Koolyanobbing in Western Australia. According to my information the company, Dampier Mining, has substantially provided finance for the equipment but the project is being blocked, whether intentionally or otherwise, by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. If this is so, will the Minister take whatever action is required to speed up the provision of television services in that area? 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. I refer to his earlier reply to a question by  Senator James  McClelland in which he stated that the $140m untied grant to local government comprised 1.6 per cent of the total personal income tax collections. Bearing in mind that $140m is 1.6 per cent of $8.75 billion, I ask: To which year's personal income tax collections does that 1 .6 per cent figure refer? 
-In Supply Bill (No. 1) and Supply Bill (No. 2), which are before the Senate, I can find no reference to funding for cadets. I presume it is covered by the omnibus heading of 'Salaries and Payments in the Nature of Salary to the Defence Forces'- unless, of course, the Government has no intention of its modified scheme of cadet training becoming operative before the end of November. I mention that point because on Tuesday I received a letter from a constituent which referred to  Mr Killen  's statement that the 
Government's cadet scheme would be operated in 2 ways- first by the schools, and, secondly, under what  Mr Killen  called an open system, by which he seemed to be saying that the Government would give its imprimatur to the establishment of cadet units which were to be under the direct control of interested parties. The question raised by my constituent is whether or not the Government would be willing to give its imprimatur to cadet units which may be established, to use his 2 specific examples, by the National Civic Council or the Eureka Youth League. I wonder whether the Minister, in closing the debate, will clarify that constituent's question. 
The second matter I wish to raise concerns what would have been called, at any time between 8 months ago and 43 months ago, 'jobs for the boys'. In the last fortnight we have seen 2 examples of people with very close associations with the National Country Party being appointed by Country Party Ministers of the present Fraser Government to highly paid sinecures. Today, of course, we had the announcement that  Mr Harry  M. Miller, who is well known as a prominent member of the National Country Party, and indeed was the director and architect of its publicity campaigns for the last couple of elections, has been appointed a director of Qantas. I recall that there was an enormous outburst of outrage pseudo morality, particularly in certain sections of the media and especially that section of the media controlled by Rupert Murdoch, when  Mr Jack  Egerton, a VicePresident of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and  President  of the Queensland Branch of the Labor Party, was appointed to the same position. I think it is reasonable to make the point that at least  Mr Edgerton  had by way of qualifications for that appointment a long and distinguished record of industrial relations and for that reason could have been expected to make a significant contribution to the efficient functioning of the Qantas board. 

 Mr Harry M. Miller, on the other hand- and I extracted this information from  Who's Who in Australia 1974 a.  couple of hours ago- is a New Zealander, and his associations with the National Country Party are well known, as are his associations with the entertainment business. I do not know what relevance that would have to a position on the board of Qantas Airways. We find also that he is a member of the committee of the Equestrian Federation of New South Wales, a director of V. J. Byrnes, stock and station agents, of Manilla, New South Wales, and vicepresident of the Simmental Breeders Association. However distinguished  Mr Harry  Miller's record may be in the area of entrepreneurial activities in the entertainment business, in concocting propaganda for the National Country Party or in breeding horses or cattle, it is not evident that he has any particular qualifications to hold the position on the board of Qantas. 
The third question I want to raise, and there is a reference on page 31 of Supply Bill (No. 1) which I presume encompasses this matter, concerns an appropriation of $ 1.641m to the Australian National Gallery for expenditure on art purchases. I assume that purchases of paintings would be encompassed within that item. I add the information that in the statement made by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on 20 May the Government announced that this was one of the few areas in which it was planned to increase the appropriation for the next financial year over the expenditure in this financial year. Specifically the Government stated that actual expenditure in this financial year would amount to $2.6m and forecast that expenditure in the 1976-77 financial year would amount to $3.5m, an increase of about 40 per cent. This was most unusual because in very few areas is the Government forecasting an increase in expenditure let alone an increase in expenditure of that magnitude. 
I wonder whether this decision to allocate increased finance for that activity is in any way related to the fact that in less than 2 years some 26 works of art from the National Gallery have been loaned, presumably for an indefinite period, to Government House or, as was disclosed in answer to a question on notice asked by my colleague in the House of Representatives, the honourable member for Shortland, to the fact that in April, 7 paintings purchased as recently as February 1 976 are currently installed in the unofficial art collection which hangs at Yarralumla. I wonder whether the increased allocation which the Government has forecast in this area is in any way related to the penchant of the Governor-General and his lady for collecting art. 
The final matter I want to raise follows on that raised by my colleague  Senator Gietzelt  who dealt at some length and with considerable skill with the question of Australia's record in the political turmoil in East Timor over the last 12 months.  Senator Gietzelt  asknowledged that the previous Labor Government may not have done all it could or should have done to sustain peace in that area. Of course, he has also charged the Fraser Government with substantially exacerbating the pre-existing problem and with being indirectly responsible for the period of total neglect between 1 1 November and 13 December last year. In passing he mentioned the latest unsolicited contribution by the Premier of Queensland to the debate on international affairs. I have obtained the transcript of the Premier's interview this morning on the radio program  'AM'.  Many members of the Senate would have heard it and it is pleasing to note once again that the Premier still speaks in the lucid style for which he has become famous. Among other things he said: 
But on the other hand I want to let it be known that I have been trying for a long time to alert people to what is happening  off our  shores not very far from home and it is about time that we realised this. 
He continued: 
We could see it on May day - 
I am not sure precisely what the Premier of Queensland thought we could see clearly on May Day but the inference is that we could see clearly on May Day what was happening off our shores not very far from home. He continued: 
We could see it on May Day in the big cities in the processions, if there isn't enough hammer and sickles and red flags flying around the streets, as we've seen it during election time to put a fire under people and to make them realise that they've got to choose people who are prepared to be alert to these things and be  positive,  be active, be interested. 
From that gobbledegook I do not know what one is supposed to deduce when  Mr BjelkePetersen  refers to people who were allegedly waving hammers and sickles in the streets on May Day and then infers that they are the people who have to choose to be alert to these things and be positive, active and interested. I do not know whether that was his intention but so far as one can deduce any meaning from the gibberish recorded in this transcript that appears to have been the meaning. I suspect, however, that his intention was to endorse the views propounded by, among others,  Mr Anthony  and  Mr Fraser,  prior to the dissolution of Parliament last year. 
They all have a great war record, as  Senator McLaren  has said, but like so many armchair patriots they appear to be starting from the great spiritual Leader of the Liberal Party who founded the Liberal Party in 1944 and who, as  Sir Earle  Page pointed out to the Parliament in 1941, was an officer of the Citizens' Military Forces at the outbreak of the First World War and in 1915 resigned his commission. Perhaps that is evidence of the old dictum that patriotism is the last refuge of the scoundrel. I suspect that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  's intention was not to provide an accolade for those people who were waving hammers and sickles in the streets but to endorse the view propounded last year by, among others, Messrs Fraser and Anthony, that the Commos were about to establish a base in East Timor, that we should invade East Timor or at the very least encourage the Indonesians to invade East Timor. That is precisely what  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  acknowledges he did. The interview continued: 
I have got no scruples in relation to anything that I have said in connection with the security of Australia - 
Many people no doubt would agree with that statement too, with the qualification deleted. The interview continued: 
Well the position of course was quite plain and quite evident that the- like it happened in so many other places, with the local support that we'd have another Angola, another some of these places, and another Cuba ultimately. 
Whatever that means- 
And I think we ought to be thankful to President Suharto for the action that he took, otherwise we would have had another ultimately, in a very short space of time, a well established stronghold-type of Cuban base with the Communists in control. 
I am not sure from that whether  Mr BjelkePetersen  was suggesting that ultimately we would have a well established stronghold-type of Cuban base with the Communists in controlwhatever that means- or that we would have a very well established stronghold-type of Cuban base with Communists in control in a very short space of time; or whether  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  changed his mind very quickly from deciding it would be achieved ultimately to it would be achieved in a very short space of time or almost immediately. The ABC interviewer, Peter Cave, commented in these terms: 
You mentioned Cuba, but a lot of people in Australia are saying now that it is more like the Nazi invasion of Poland, what's happened. 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen said: 
That's the ones of course who would like to have seen another type of philosophy or another way of living established there. No. President Suharto is a man whom I respect and whom I admire the stand he has taken against Communism right from the very beginning. 
Implicit in that statement, I suppose, is the endorsement of the murder, and I use that word advisedly, of between 300 000 and 500 000 Chinese after President Suharto took control of Indonesia in 1965. 
I am pleased that  Senator Wright  is in the chamber because he is a man with a long and distinguished interest in matters constitutional and I raise this next matter as a senator from Western Australia. When my State joined the Federation, as anyone with more than a passing knowledge of Australian history would know, there was some reluctance on the pan of Western Australia to become pan of Australia. When it did join it was on the distinct understanding- not just an understanding but something that is explicitly spelt out in the Constitution- that section 51 placitum (xxix) of the Constitution would provide that the Parliament of the Commonwealth would have power to make laws pertaining to external affairs and, under placitum (xxx).to relations of the Commonwealth with the islands of the Pacific. The point I make is that it has been quite explicit from the beginning that power to make foreign policy is vested in the national Parliament and not the parliaments of the States. Yet in 15 months we have seen 2 incursions into the area of foreign policy by this renegade Premier. In November 1974 and February 1975 he made 2 statements threatening the Japanese that unless they purchased Queensland beef, and he stipulated very clearly Queensland beef as though Queensland was an autonomous economic region, there would be no coal for the Japanese. Now we find that in October 1975 he was inciting and advising the Chief Executive of Indonesia to invade East Timor. 
Twice in a little over a year this same Premier intruded into an area which is unquestionably the constitutional responsibility of the national government. We have heard a great deal from  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  over the last two or three years about alleged State rights as guaranteed by the Constitution- or  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  asserts that they are guaranteed by the Constitution. It is more than time that we heard something from his colleagues about Federal Government rights as guaranteed by the Constitution. It is more than time that those colleagues let  Mr BjelkePetersen  know that his incompetent bungling and incursions into the area of foreign affairs are not appreciated. Ironically enough, in today's  Australian  we get a glimpse into  Mr BjelkePetersen  's political morality. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Maunsell)-  Thank you,  Senator Cotton.  I suggest to the honourable senator - 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  may I speak to the point of order? I have specifically referred to the Supply Bills twice. Moreover, it is my understanding that it was the normal procedure of the Senate to allow an honourable senator to canvass a wide area of topics during the ' second reading debate on money Bills. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I suggest that, as we are trying to finish this program and as a lot of other honourable senators want to speak on other Bills, the honourable senator should wind up that part of his speech and see whether he cannot get back to relevant matters. 
As it happens, the point that I was about to raise is relevant to Federal finances. I was about to read  Mr BjelkePetersen  's comments from today's  Australian.  He declared that the Federal Government should reallocate to the building industry some of the $ 12,000m which it planned to spend on defence over the next 5 years. He went on to refer to other designated areas of Commonwealth expenditure. He stated: 
It seems to me that the Federal Government is stressing programs for groups in the community that have never supported private enterprise or non-Labor governments and are unlikely ever to do so. 
Quite clearly the inference is that  Mr BjelkePetersen  believes that only those groups or individuals who support private enterprise and non-Labor political parties ought to be the recipients of Federal funds. I pose this question to responsible members of the Government: Does the Government repudiate that moral view of politics as expressed by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  or does it intend to comply with that view and introduce a system which will require recipients of age pensions and similar welfare benefits to declare that they are supporters of the free enterprise system and ofthe non-Labor political parties before they receive those benefits? These 2 most recent outbursts by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  only confirm a lamentable and well established pattern of behaviour. On many occasions he has misused the Queensland Parliament. The most recent and most scandalous event was on 7 December, or it may have been 9 December, of last year. He recalled the Queensland Parliament to a special sitting in order to libel by implication under parliamentary privilege every Minister in the previous Federal Labor Government. That was demeaning to the Parliament of Queensland. He has brought contempt upon that Parliament. 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen has publicly endorsed the economic policies of the Australian League of 
Rights as expounded by the Institute for Economic Democracy. This is relevant to the provision of Federal finance because there is an allocation in the Bill for grants to the States for agricultural purposes. The Institute is a front for the Australian League of Rights which, among other things has been furiously trying to persuade Queensland dairy farmers for the last 10 or 15 years that they do not have any deep seated economic problems, that all the Queensland dairy farmer needed 15 years ago was a sensible economic management and that if that happened the Queensland dairy farmer would be happy and prosperous for ever more, notwithstanding the low levels of production which are inevitably associated with dairying in areas where temperatures are consistently high.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  circulated a nonsense economic document which he called the Petersen Plan and which attracted interest and support from fiscal cranks all around Australia. These fiscal cranks are spreading their nonsense among temporarily or permanently disadvantaged groups. This is not only objectionable to those who objectively seek or pursue truth but it is positively destructive in that it holds out false hopes to people who are already severely disadvantaged. 
The time has certainly come when members of the same political Parties as  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and members of the Party which support himthat is members of the Liberal Party and of the National Country Party of Australia- and who may have found it useful in the past to use him as a hatchet man should repudiate in the clearest terms this parliamentary maverick, this man who has the ethics and attitudes of a thug and the demeanour of a buffoon. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-In directing my question to  Senator Carrick,  in his capacity as Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, I refer to a report in the  Daily News  of Wednesday last in which  Sir Charles  Court was reported to have said that he had received an assurance from the Prime Minister that Western Australia would be free to determine the proportion of Commonwealth funds to be distributed on what the Government somewhat quaintly calls a weighted per capita basis. Is this statement correct? Is this assurance a manifestation of this Government's belief that power should be transferred to the 
States? If so, why is his Government by centralist decree imposing a  per capita  formula instead of making simple grants, without strings attached, to the States? 

 -Mr President, I wish to ask a supplementary question. In his 5 -minute reply,  Senator Carrick  did not answer the central point of my question, which I repeat: Is it correct, as  Sir Charles  Court has stated, that the States will be free to determine that proportion of the grant which will be paid on the weighted  per capita  basis determined by the Federal Government? 
I shall not dwell for too long on commenting on  Senator Maunsell  's remarks, but I do wish to make a couple of points. For as long as I can remember- in fact from 1951- the woolgrowers of Australia have with varying intensity been applying pressures to the Government to implement a floor price for the whole Australian clip. I can recall throughout much of the 1950s and all of the 1960s telling woolgrowers that such a scheme was unlikely to be implemented until a Labor Government was elected. That was precisely what happened. No such scheme was implemented until a Labor Government was elected. All the histrionics and the denials of the National Country Party cannot alter the historical fact that for more than 20 years despite the National Country Party's claim to represent agricultural industries it failed to secure what most sections of primary industry had with varying levels of intensity demanded throughout that period. To achieve that end, the election of a government which was politically opposed to the National Country Party was required. 
Two other points arise from  Senator Maunsell  's address. Firstly, I wish to puncture the inflation myth- the myth that because inflation is running at any particular level in Australia it therefore,  ipso facto,  cripples exporting industries. That simplistic view may have been valid in the days when governments attempted to maintain rigid exchange rates. It is no longer valid when the Australian dollar is floating as it has been floating for the last 18 months. A rate of inflation in Australia significantly higher than the rate prevailing in relation to our trading partners will, granted with some time lag, ultimately be corrected by adjustments in the international exchange rate through the open market. 
The third point that I make is that  Senator Maunsell  and the National Country Party are victims of the fact that once the National Country Party learns a new line it seems to keep on repeating it. 
Yes. It seems to be unable to shed a line once it is learnt or unable to unlearn a line once learnt.  Senator Maunsell  was again plugging this line that the Labor Government had inflicted hardship upon the wool industry because what he euphemistically calls investment incentives were withdrawn in the 1973 Budget. At the risk of being tediously repetitiousand I regret that it is necessary to be tediously repetitious because the National Country Party in particular and the Liberal Party to a somewhat lesser extent still do not seem to have learnt this lesson- I put to the Liberal and National Country Parties this question: Do they really believe that investment in such industries as dairying, fruit growing, beef or wool would have been higher in 1 973 and 1 974 than in fact it was? Do they really believe that, if the Government of the day had provided some artificial stimuli to generate new investment and thereby increase productions in those industries, those industries would have been any better off? In case they have no idea of the current position of those industries, I remind them that their acute problem at the moment is one of surplus capacity. So what the National Country Party still claims would have been a sound and viable agricultural policy in 1973 would in fact have exacerbated the problems which exist today. 
The Bills before the Senate, although they are concerned with striking levies and so on, are an integral part of the Labor Government's major initiatives to apply a floor price from September 1974 onwards. This legislation continues the most significant innovation in the area of agricultural policy that came from the Whitlam Government. The level at which the floor price should be set has always been a contentious issue. My own view is that the level of 250c set in September 1974 was probably somewhat higher than the market realities justified and that the 250c floor price set for the 1975-76 season was the appropriate level- of course, we have empirical evidence to support this now- insofar as there has been some decline in stocks but substantial stocks are still being held. The appropriate level of the reserve price next year must remain a field for speculation. Nevertheless it need not be entirely ignorant or ill-informed speculation. 
When in Opposition the members of the present governing Parties freely distributed their advice and made their assertions that the reserve price should be set at a higher level than whatever level the Australian Labor Party had allowed it to be set at. For example, as far back as 22 May last year,  Mr Sinclair  said:   . . The Parties on this side of the House believe that that level of  support  should be at least at the present rate of 250c. 
From time to time spokesmen for the Liberal and National Country Parties argued that the floor price should be indexed to either the consumer price index or the Bureau of Agricultural Economics index of farm costs or wool industry costs. The view was put forward- quite unrealistically in my opinion; I will return to that later- by those spokesmen that the floor price should automatically increase from year to year in accordance with increases in the BAE index of farm costs or wool industry costs. So those spokesmen will now have the opportunity to put the taxpayers' money where their mouths were when they were in Opposition. 
I do suggest- I offer this suggestion constructivelythat the current state of the wool market justifies the Government giving serious consideration to reviewing the level of the floor price for the coming season with some adjustment upwards. I do not accept the belief which has been irresponsibly promoted by some members of this Parliament and by some parliamentarians outside the federal sphere, particularly by the Premier of Western Australia, that the demand for wool- I use the word 'demand' in the sense of it being a composite of quantity sold and price- is determined by whatever floor price is set. That sort of nonsense was liberally promoted by the Premier of Western Australia, amongst others, in September 1974 when he had the audacity to assert that if the reserve price- the floor price- had been set at 300c instead of 250c the Wool Corporation would have sold more wool. That sort of view, of course, clearly reveals the monumental ignorance of the process of price formation to which Professor Lloyd referred at a conference in Perth in 1 970. 
-Senator Wright is about to give us his views on price determination and the process of price formation. 

 - Sir Charles Court's views in this instance were that if one increases the price of a product the quantity sold will likewise increase. It is certainly an original view of the process of price formation and marketing reality.  Senator Wright  might respect that, with his immense knowledge in this area, but I have not struck anyone else in Australia who supports it, other than some irresponsible political propagandists who have an axe to grind. In the long term, of course, to anyone who has a rational or even a minimal appreciation of the true forces which determine prices in a market place- that obviously excludes  Sir Charles  Court and, by his own admission,  Senator Wright-  and the process of price formation the floor price in the long term must be set by the true market demand for wool. That sort of analysis, of course, does not exclude significant government intervention for the short term. There always remains the problem of determining the appropriate level at which the reserve price should be set in the short or medium term. 
To return to the point of the level at which it ought to be set this year, there are certain objective facts which are relevant and which point in the direction of a higher floor price being justified. I refer firstly to what was, on the whole, a well considered submission that was sent to me and, I understand, to other members of Parliament by the Farmers Union of Western Australia. I trust the figure given is correct- I have not checked it- but it is claimed that there was a fall of 600 000 bales in the stocks held by the Wool Corporation between November and March and that 600 000 bales represented something very close to 40 per cent of the Corporation's total stocks. Another objective fact is that the market for the last month or 6 weeks has held at a fairly consistent level at around 275c per kilogram clean. I think it is reasonable to say that the price of wool is likely to rise, although no one can be certain of these things, at something like the general increase in prices not only in Australia but also in the countries to which we sell and the general increase in price in the last year has still been in the vicinity of 10 per cent. Given those 3 facts and, in addition, the apparent economic recovery or the beginnings of an economic recovery in many of our trading partners, it does not seem unreasonable to suggest that the Government ought to review the level of the reserve price with a view to increasing it. The level to which it ought to be increased is, of course, highly debatable but it seems to me that an increase of the magnitude of 10 per cent would not be irresponsible and ought to be seriously considered. 
I want quite clearly to dissociate myself from the view promoted in some sections of the industry, frequently with the backing and encouragement of the National Country Party, that the level of the floor price of wool ought to be set by something that they call the cost of production. The cost of production concept just does not have any viability unless governments are prepared to enter into open-ended and continuing commitments for price support, and that sort of policy no responsible government can contemplate. I concede all the difficulties that are involved in making a reasonable assessment, but in the long term the floor price must be set by the true market demand for wool and that does not exclude short term intervention. The Labor Government did intervene. It was an extremely costly exercise in the short term. The cost to the Budget in 1974-75 was in excess of $300m. There is not likely to be any net cost to government finances this year. I mention in passing that the non-expenditure of the $80m appropriated in the 1975-76 Budget for finance for the Wool Corporation is now claimed by some Government spokesmen as being a saving instituted by the superior housekeeping of this Government. It has even been predicted by  Senator Maunsell  and, I think, some others, that the great bulk of the outstanding advance currently owed by the Corporation of around $300m will be returned to the Government in the next financial year. If that should happen, I hope that the Government does not have the audacity to claim that its superior housekeeping has been responsible for that too. But I acknowledge the very possibility of that advance being repaid is a factor constraining the Government, a factor working against the Government allowing for an increase in the reserve price. 
Finally, I want to give some figures in response to the belief promoted by political propagandists who are more concerned with saying what is popular than what is true, that is, the belief that the current problems in some sectors of agriculture have been caused by the Labor Government. The reality of the situation is that the Government in power has little influence over the aggregate level of farm income except in those sectors that suffer from chronic surplus capacity. It is in those sectors that governments have been culpable in the past. Governments, both State and Federal, have promoted surplus capacity in fruit growing and in dairying, in particular. I refer to the level of farm income on a calendar year basis- I have incorporated it in other ways before- for the years 1970 to 1972 under a Liberal-Country Party Government. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 

 - Mr President, before the suspension of the sitting I was saying that the government in power, no matter which party constitutes that government, has little influence on the aggregate level of farm income, except where government action induces or sustains chronic surplus capacity. This has been a factor in industries such as the dairy industry, the canned fruit industry and the apples and pears industry, and it is a factor in the current difficult situation. For example, in the calendar years 1970 to 1972 the average net farm income, in constant 1966-67 prices, was $982m. In the 3 calendar years from 1973 to 1975 the average net farm income, again in constant 1966-67 prices, was $ 1 ,430m. So the belief that in the 3 years of Labor rule things were very difficult down on the farm is quite clearly contradicted by the objective facts. In fact, in those 3 years net farm income in real terms was some 45 per cent higher than it had been in the preceding 3 years of Liberal-Country Party government. 
Finally, if the Liberal and Country Parties really wish to do something to assist the people whom they purport to represent- normally they purport to represent the agricultural farmers more so than the Labor Party does- they would do these people a service if they paid more attention to saying what is true and less attention to saying what is popular. They would do these people a service if they paid more attention to the truth than to the popularisation of misleading analyses or to the promotion of false hopes. 

 - Senator Tehan castigated my colleagues the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and  Senator Gietzelt  for failing to do their homework. I think that he also used the word 'ignorance' with respect to their comments upon the dairy industry. I find it more than a little ironic that, having laid that charge against my colleagues,  Senator Tehan  then proceeded to display a monumental ignorance of the subject to which he was addressing himself. That was shown very clearly in, I think, his second last sentence when he referred to a difference in the price of liquid milk of 20c a pint or something like that, between Sydney and Melbourne. In fact, the difference in price is 7c for 600 millilitres. But that was a minor error compared with the other gross errors in the speech he has just delivered. 
According to  Senator Tehan  a healthy, prosperous industry existed prior to 1972. Evidently  Senator Tehan  's knowledge of the dairy industry suffers from the same gaps as the knowledge of a certain ecclesiastical gentleman who wrote a pontificial letter to the Melbourne  Age  a few weeks ago. I wonder whether  Senator Tehan  or the worthy canon whose name I have forgotten has ever heard of the report published by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in 1967 that is commonly known as the Mackay report, which in fact showed that 27 per cent of the dairy farmers in the manufacturing sector of the industry had cash incomes of less than $1,000 and that something like 42 per cent had cash incomes of less than $2,000. If that fits  Senator Tehan  's definition of a healthy and prosperous industry, his standards are certainly extremely low. It is a good example of the point that I was trying to drive home particularly to members of the National Country Party earlier today. They would do a great service to the people whom they claim to represent if they paid more attention to truth and less attention to popularity. 
This healthy, prosperous industry was analysed very perceptively by the Dairy Industry Committee of Inquiry, the report of which was published in 1960. That Committee of Inquiry is commonly known as the McCarthy Inquiry. It elucidated all the problems of the industry which had existed for more than a decade prior to the report being published. Of course, that report was then promptly ignored by the Liberal and National Country Parties right up until 1970 when the force of circumstance became so intense and the reality became so obvious that they could no longer totally ignore the report. They introduced the marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme which helped a little bit.  Senator Tehan  should have said that if the LiberalCountry Party Government had not been inactive up until 1972 the industry's problems would not be quite so bad as they in fact are. 
The conservative government in his own State of Victoria was far from inactive during the 1960s. After the publication of the Mackay report and of the report of the Dairy Industry Committee of Inquiry, the Victorian Government was still sponsoring land settlement and/or irrigation schemes in order to settle new farmers, to establish new dairy farms, to add to the chronic problem of surplus capacity in the industry. Indeed, as recently as this year- this is almost unbelievable- the Victorian Government placed dairy farmers, gullible and unfortunate individuals, on new dairy farms in the irrigation area at Rochester. As I mentioned last week when commenting on this particularly lunatic scheme, we have this absurd position where the Victorian Government, using money supplied by its own taxpayers and by the national Government, supplies irrigation water to dairy farmers at about half its economic cost. This Government then subsidises the fertilisers that the farmers use on the irrigated pastures, and the final product is butter which is extremely difficult to sell and skim milk powder which the Australian Dairy Corporation currently is trying to flog off to Japan at $150 a tonne as stock feed. That is the absurd position in which the activity rather than the inactivity of Liberal-Country Party government has placed the dairying industry. I will say no more about  Senator Tehan  's particularly illinformed contribution to this debate except to repeat the advice that I offered to the Liberal and Country Parties earlier: They would do a great service to their constituents, to the people who misguidedly put their faith in them to represent them in this Parliament, if they were to pay more attention to the truth and less attention to conventional wisdom. 
As I have said, the dairy industry's problems go back a long way. The current crisis was partially unforeseen insofar as the catastrophic decline in the price of skim milk powder, to which I think other speakers in the debate have referred, was not entirely foreseeable. Nevertheless, that catastrophic decline should not be allowed to obscure the fact that the industry has chronic problems which extend back for more than  Vh  decades. The only permanent solution for the industrymost members of the Liberal and Country Parties have recognised this from 1970 inwardsis, firstly, an absolute reduction in the quantity of products supplied, in the volume of production, and, secondly, an amalgamation of the smaller and generally uneconomic units. Coincidental with those 2 matters is a tendency to move dairying from those areas where the physical environment is unfavourable. 
It is difficult to assess the correct size of the dairy industry in the future because it depends on so many variables which are totally beyond the control of an Australian government. One of those variables is the climate, the seasonal factors. The second is the actions which foreign governments may take which may interfere with the free trading of dairy products. But it seems to be agreed by most people who have looked rationally at the industry- that probably excludes nearly every honourable senator opposite who has spoken in this debate- and by many of the more enlightened people within the industry that the most sensible objective of the policy would be for the industry to contract to something like the size of the domestic market, with some safety margin for exports and some safety margin for filling in the deficiencies in supply to the domestic market in bad seasons and also to that very limited export market which may return profitable prices. Indeed, the Australian Agricultural Council has announced its commitment to a policy like this. On the evidence available now that appears to be the most sensible policy for governments to pursue. Even this Government seems to be pursuing that policy, although it will have enormous difficulties coping with the parochial prejudices of various State governments. This is one area in which 1 agree with  Senator Tehan.  Probably it requires some strong action at a national level to ensure that the parochial interests of State dairy industries are not allowed to become operative to the detriment of the dairy industry as a whole. 
Something else which is a concomitant of a sensible policy for the dairy industry is the proposition that people, including dairy farmers' sons, must move out of the industry. Something which will handicap that proposition quite considerably is the sort of view which was expressed by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  in the House of Representatives on 1 August 1974. In criticising the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreement Bill, he said: 
Firstly, there is no allowance under the proposal for a son to buy out his father and thus retain the family dairy farm. Sons of farmers are obviously the best dairy farmers of all. They have had instilled into them at the knee of practical experience the way that things are best done. They also have the typical love of the land. Provision should have been made in the scheme so that sons could take over the family farm and retain it. 
That sort of primitive agricultural fundamentalism has no place in the formulation of a rational policy for the dairy industry. 
The other point on which I wish to make a few comments concerns the 2-price scheme, as it is commonly known, which prevails in the industry throughout Australia; the marketing arrangements under which there is a preferred privileged class of dairy farmers who supply the liquid milk market and a victimised class of dairy farmers who supply the manufacturing market. Earlier I referred to the Dairy Industry Committee of Inquiry of 1960. The report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the dairy industry of 23 October 1975 refers to the report of the Dairy Industry Committee of Inquiry. It states: 
The conclusions drawn by that Committee were that the high prices paid for fluid milk in some Milk Board areas  . . do a great disservice to the dairy industry. They create a feeling of injustice in those sections of the industry that do not share them. They tend to raise the costs of cattle and land; adopted in one area they establish arguments for adoption in others; and most importantly of all they restrict the consumption of a nutritious food and cause an increase in the volume of surplus butter for export'. The Committee of Inquiry concluded that 'There is only one answer to the problem of high prices for liquid milk and that is to reduce them'. 
In that one passage the 4 most objectionable features of these discriminatory pricing arrangements are spelt out. They include the inequitability of arrangements between dairy farmers themselves, the fact that the market price of milk quotas represents capitalised monopoly profit. Let us be completely clear about that: If the price of milk was not excessively high, the right to supply milk in itself would not have a market value. Whatever the value of milk quotas may be- it appears to be between $300 and $350 in Western Australia, and it is alleged to be about $500 in New South Wales if quotas were freely traded- it represents capitalised monopoly profit. There are objectionable political side effects to this, such as Ministers in the previous coalition government in New South Wales holding quotas to supply 3000 gallons of milk a day, the market value of which, had they been freely negotiable, would have been in the vicinity of $150,000. That represents a gift from the milk consumers of New South Wales to Cabinet Ministers in the previous coalition Government in New South Wales. 
The other points which were encompassed show that the quotas add to the surplus of manufactured milk products. Because the supplies of liquid milk obtain prices which are two are three times the prices obtained by producers of manufactured milk and because the producers probably fail to distinguish adequately between their average price and their marginal price they are given a buffer- an area within which they can significantly expand their marginal production which will be sold at manufacturing milk prices, whilst still retaining a very satisfactory average price for themselves. Apart from the probability that that does not even maximise the income for the individual it imposes additional pressures on those producers whose outlet is restricted to the market for manufactured products. It causes extra and unnecessary competition for struggling dairy farmers in that area and featherbeds regional inefficiency in production itself. 
The survey conducted in my own State of Western Australia by the Department of Agriculture in 1975 showed- the figures varied a bit from region to region so I will quote round figures- the return on farm for liquid milk was 60c a gallon and the return for manufactured milk was 22c a gallon. The liquid milk market is supplied mainly from the region close to Perth, much of which is irrigated. The cost of production, as assessed by the departmental formulahowever fallible that formula may be, the same formula was used in all areas- was shown in this survey to have been in the vicinity of 60c a gallon in that region while in the Busselton zone, which was not irrigated and which had only just recently moved into the liquid milk market area, the cost of production was 40c a gallon. That was not accidental. The fact that traditional liquid milk producers had been featherbedded and had enjoyed the monopoly returns which accrued from the captive market for many years had led to the development of inefficiency in production, whereas the people who recently had been butterfat dairy farmers had to be very efficient to survive. The consequence of that efficiency was shown in the production costs of ex-butterfat dairy farmers being only two-thirds of those in the other sectors. 
It applies also in Victoria, my colleague tells me. Of course, I am not as familiar with the regional situation in Victoria as he would be. I find it particularly disturbing, in view of the strong criticism of this discriminatory pricing arrangement which goes right back to the 1960s, that the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in a speech to dairy farmers at Warrnambool, Victoria, on 24 May last proposed that an excise- although he did not call it an excise, conceptually it should be regarded as an exercise- ought to be applied to liquid milk sales which could then be redistributed among the manufacturing sector of the industry. I quote his words from a Press statement which was issued subsequent to that address: 
Within Victoria there seems to be a strong case for the examination of milk price structures, particularly the contrast between market and manufacturing milk prices. 
I would agree with that- 
In an examination of the Sydney whole milk market I find milk sales at 24c per 600 ml to the customer and in contrast in Melbourne milk is sold at 17c per 600 ml. 
Apparently  Senator Tehan  in his in-depth study of the matter did not even read the Press release his own Minister put out.  Mr Sinclair  continued: 
It could perhaps be possible - 
This is a crucial part- 
Through some increase in returns in market milk to supplement prices paid for manufacturing milk within Victoria. 
What  Mr Sinclair  is proposing in that sentence is that the price of milk to consumers in Victoria ought to be increased and the additional money spread around the poverty section of the industry, that is, the manufacturing sector. 
Let it be very clear that what  Mr Sinclair  is proposing for Victoria is that people in Melbourne should pay up to 7c extra per 600 ml container for their milk. That is what  Mr Sinclair  is proposing. I hope the people of Melbourne and of the country towns throughout Victoria, where people also buy milk in 600 ml containers, realise precisely what  Mr Sinclair  is proposing and that they let  Mr Sinclair  know their reaction. Apart from that aspect, for the industry as a whole that is not a satisfactory arrangement. The IAC report commented that the demand for milk was not totally elastic in response for price changes. In other words, an increase in price in real terms will lead to reduced consumption of liquid milk. This is precisely what has happened throughout the last 10 years. Page 220 of the IAC report shows the apparent consumption of liquid milk in 1963 to have been 129 litres per capita. and in 1974 the figure had fallen to 122 litres per capita. I do not have any more recent figures than the 1974 figure. 
History has shown us- and I think market surveys have shown the same thing- that the response to a significant increase in milk priceespecially if it is in one lump- will be a decline in the quantity purchased. Not only is  Mr Sinclair's  proposition objectionable from the viewpoint of society as a whole but also it has serious defects even from within the narrow perspective of the industry.  Mr Sinclair  is proposing that dairy farmers should price themselves out of the most lucrative section of their market by price increases. Whatever the justification may be for price increases to these dairy farmers- I accept that the justification in the short term is considerable for providing either strictly welfare assistance, clearly delineated as welfare assistance, or finance for reconstruction within the industry, and the reality is that reconstruction also means contraction- the payment should come through the tax system from society as a whole and not from the people who purchase milk in Melbourne and in the other towns of Victoria as  Mr Sinclair  has proposed. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the power to issue cheques for unemployment benefits and similar payments is to be or has been withdrawn from regional offices such as that in northern Western Australia and that payments in future will be centralised in capital city offices. 
Will such a move lead to staff retrenchments in country offices; if not, for what reason should the payments system be centralised. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
May a person who joined the Army when under eighteen years of age with parental consent be discharged from the Army if the parent withdraws consent, (a) before the person is eighteen years of age, or (b) after the person is eighteen years of age. 
I present the following petition from 19 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we deplore the confusion generated by the Government's proposals to radically modify the system of health insurance in Australia; 
That we believe the changes will destroy the concept of universality previously incorporated in Medibank; 
That the Government's actions will lead to a two-class system of health care and thereby creating a division in Australian society; 
That the unnecessary duplication of health insurance funds created by Medibank and private organisations both operating will lead to gross administrative inefficiency, waste and increased costs. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government retain at least the original Medibank Scheme. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is he aware that at 12.15 p.m. today on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program  Country Hour,  in reply to a farmer who was criticising the negative net payments to agriculture specified in the Budget, the Minister for Primary Industry said: 
Total outlays on agriculture will be significantly greater than those which appear in the Budget. 
By how much will this as yet unrevealed expenditure increase the deficit beyond the stated level of $2.6 billion? Has the Government- I ask the Minister to bear in mind  Senator Guilfoyle  's 2 statements today pertaining to unemployment benefit payments and Aboriginal affairs that greater expenditure may yet be incurreddeliberately understated the true level of expenditure in the Budget figures in order to appease the Prime Minister's somewhat dated beliefs concerning deficits? 
In Perth on 25 September last year- a little less than 1 1 months ago- the  Sir- Robert  Menzies Lecture was delivered by Malcolm Fraser, then Leader of the Opposition and now Prime Minister. On page 8 of the text of that lecture we find this passage: 
Can one imagine how  Mr Hawke  's redoubtable invective, once frequently vented on unfortunate journalists, would have been vented on a Liberal Government had it caused, through its actions, unemployment of 250 000 workers. Can one doubt that, had a Liberal Government been so uncaring of the interest of the worker and so callous about the human suffering and loss of dignity and self respect involved in unemployment as to allow such a situation to emerge because of its philosophical pretensions, that such invective would have been justified. 
Those were the words of the present Prime Minister less than a year ago.  Senator Cotton,  who spoke in this debate this afternoon, castigated the Opposition for bringing forward this urgency motion based upon the simple fact that today the level of unemployment, the actual number of unemployed, is not the 250 000 which the present Prime Minister suggested less than a year ago was reprehensible but almost 300 000, and on a seasonally adjusted basis 315 000. As my colleague  Senator Button  pointed out in his excellent address, it is the highest July level of unemployment recorded since the Depression of the 1930s. It is totally understandable that  Senator Cotton  and all his colleagues who promised that unemployment would disappear if a Liberal-National Country Party Government was elected last year regret the fact that the Opposition has taken this opportunity to draw attention to their duplicity, their dishonesty and their manifest failure to deliver what they promised the people after their reprehensible actions of October and November last year. 
The simple fact about the movement in unemployment in Australia in the last 12 months is that in October last year the level of unemployment, seasonally adjusted, commenced to fall and it continued to fall until February. I observe in passing that Megles Murdoch's flagship, the  Australian,  in reporting the October unemployment statistics used the raw figure which showed that unemployment had increased. It referred to that as being the accurate figure. When the November figures were available, the same flag ship of the Murdoch stable, the  Australian.  switched around and used the seasonally adjusted figure because that presented the sort of distortion, the sort of line, that Megles Murdoch wanted to press upon the Australian people and mislead the electorate in the way that Megles Murdoch wished to mislead the electorate. I just observe in passing that that was typical of the behaviour of that newspaper throughout that entire election campaign, throughout the 4 months that preceded it and indeed throughout the 8 months that have succeeded it. From October to February, megalomaniacs- whether they are incumbents at  Yarralumla  or Press barons - 
I apologise to you,  Mr President.  The simple facts regarding unemployment are that from October to February unemployment was falling consistently and that from February onwards unemployment has been increasing consistently. My colleagues,  Senator Button, Senator Wriedt  and  Senator Keeffe,  have already quantified this simple fact and have had tables incorporated in  Hansard.  We were told by the present Government when it was in Opposition that the election of a Liberal government would ensure that the problem of unemployment would begin to be solved. I think my colleague,  Senator Button,  quoted the Prime Minister as having said that within 6 months the problem would be overcome; all that was needed was the election of a Liberal government. A Liberal government was elected and unemployment continued to rise. Then the Prime Minister and the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  propounded the absurd theory that the way to economic recovery was through an investmentled recovery. To his great credit  Senator Cotton,  who has a considerably higher level of literacy on these matters than his Prime Minister, his Treasurer or most of his colleagues, as early as 1 1 
February publicly repudiated this investmentled recovery nonsense. I notice that even its architects and proselytisers- the Prime Minister and the Treasurer- have since dropped the investment-led recovery theory from their rhetoric. Now we are told that the Budget will cure unemployment and put Australia back on the road to recovery. What does this Budget offer us? It purports to show a deficit of $2.6 billion. I mention this not because I believe that the level of the deficit is particularly important but because it seems to be a recurring obsession of the Prime Minister and his Treasurer. That figure needs a substantial amount of adjustment. Firstly, if we want to arrive at a deficit which is comparable with deficits as they have been recorded in previous years, we must add on the $200 billion which this year the Australian Telecommunications Commission will be required to raise on the private capital market and we must add on the $209m prepayment to the States for hospital Medibank- the Commonwealth's share of hospital Medibank operating expenses from July to September inclusive this year which was paid by the Treasurer before the end of June for the expedient reason, politically expedient to him, of artificially inflating last financial year's deficit and artificially deflating this financial year's deficit. When we make those 2 adjustments we find that in fact the deficit is in excess of $3 billion. One more adjustment still needs to be made. It is forecast in the Treasurer's Budget Speech that the Australian Wool Corporation will be making net repayments of $245m to the revenue this year. That represents the liquidation of capital stock. When all the necessary adjustments have been made, the actual size of the deficit on the basis on which historically it has been determined is in fact $3.25 billion, which is almost indistinguishable from the level of the deficit last year. 
This Budget tacitly acknowledges that inflation in the next 12 months will continue to run at 12 per cent, which is only 0.2 per cent or 0.3 per cent lower than the level recorded in the last 12 months. Of course, unquestionably unemployment will be pushed to even higher levels. This afternoon  Senator Cotton  quoted the  Financial Review  with great approval. In fact he seemed to suggest that the  Financial Review  was the final arbiter, the ultimate authority, in Australia on all matters pertaining to Budgets and economic policies generally. The editorial in today's  Financial Review,  to which  Senator Cotton  referred, stated: 
Inevitably it-  that is the Budget- will mean record unemployment in the 1977 new year when the school leavers come on to the market. 
That was the editorial voice of the  Financial Review  which  Senator Cotton  quoted with unequivocal approval 4 hours ago. So, we have a deficit just as high, when properly assessed, as the deficit last year which, according to the honourable senators who now populate the Government benches, was utterly disastrous. It is forecast that inflation will continue at the same rate and that unemployment will be higher. For that dismal forecast of the level of economic activity in the next 12 months, the Liberal and National Country Parties had the audacity to break every convention which had governed the operation of the Australian Parliament. The poverty of this Government's ideas is manifest in this Budget it has produced. There as articulated by its Treasurer, its excuse for its failure to deliver that which it promised- its scapegoat- is the claim that wages are increasing at too fast a rate and that this is all the fault of militant unionists. When there is no longer a Labor government to blame honourable senators opposite fall back on blaming the militant unionists. The  Financial Review  editorial of 9 August, the publication which  Senator Cotton  regards as being so august, said: 
The fact that the unemployment situation worsened during July- by 6.2 per cent after seasonal adjustmentrepresents a setback to the Government's economic strategy. 
That, I imagine, would be a considerable understatement. The article went on to describe how the Treasurer,  Mr P.  Lynch, sheeted home the responsibility for the latest deterioration to the continuing push for wage increases, particularly by the militant left-wing of the trade union leadership'. The article then said: 
This charge can hardly be sustained. 
It went on to say that with some minor exceptions all that the trade union movement had pressed for was wage indexation. Then the  Financial Review  observed: 
This policy incidentally was one endorsed by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser in the last election campaign. 
Let that not be forgotten. Neither  Mr Fraser  nor any other member of this Government is in any position to castigate any union for demanding full indexation of wages. When  Mr Fraser  was facing the electors in November and December last year he promised indexation of wages and he has attempted to renegue, to welch, on that promise as he has welched on Medibank and as he has attempted to welch on the railways agreement with South Australia. The  Financial Review  summarised its assessment of the situation by saying: 
In truth what we heard from the Treasurer on Friday was the sort of cliched nonsense you hear from any politician when confronted with the unexpected- a diversionary attack on a traditional enemy. 
That is the newspaper that  Senator Cotton  regards as being the most authoritative in the land. I might also add that the same  Financial Review  on 23 June in a comment on the economic comprehension or perspicacity of the present Prime Minister noted: 
Even the most moderately literate person in economics would recognise- 
That is,  Mr Fraser  's- economic pontifications as patent rubbish. 
Indeed, even the most illiterate person in economics would recognise the present Prime Minister's pontifications on economics as patent rubbish. I am sure that  Senator Cotton,  perhaps alone amongst his colleagues in this chamber, does recognise the Prime Minister's pontifications as just that.  Senator Cotton  asserted that the Budget had been greeted with universal euphoria by the editorials in the major newspapers. After he said that I read the editorials in the major newspapers and found that the  Sydney Morning Herald,  adopting an evenhanded approach, pointed out the fiscal jiggery poker) which had gone into the manipulations which the Treasurer had used to produce a false and artificial deficit. The  Australian  predictably said that it was a great Budget. The  Canberra Times  said that it had a sting in the tail, that sting being when State governments had to impose higher charges and higher indirect taxation following the miserly treatment they had received financially from the present Government under its new federalism policy. Obviously  Senator Cotton  did not read the Melbourne  Age  which from cover to cover condemned this Budget as being totally inappropriate. The claim that this Budget has been greeted with editorial euphoria is as shonky as  Senator Carrick  's assurance to me on 30 April that payments to the States would increase in the next 3 years in real terms by more than the 58 per cent by which they had increased in the last 3 years. I trust that in the future  Senator Carrick  may have cause to issue a well considered and amplified statement on that issue. 

That the Senate expresses its concern about the implications of the Government's investment allowance policy. 
This notice of motion which I placed on the notice paper in February this year has been overtaken to some extent by events. The investment allowance of 40 per cent for  2Vi  years and 20 per cent for the succeeding 5 years, which the Government had announced as its policy prior to February, has since been enacted. I think the legislation was passed on 1 June. Nevertheless there are several points arising from that investment allowance legislation and the irrational thinking which underpins it which ought to be restated. One hopes that if they are restated frequently enough they will penetrate the consciousness of the people currently in control of economic policy and taxation policy in this country. The Liberal Party's document is entitled  New Government Policies.  I am not sure precisely when it was published but I think it was in December 1975. The document can be found in the Library and the reference is 329/407. On page 6 of that document the Liberal Party, then in Government, set out its economic policy. Under the heading ' Investment Revival ' it said: 
The strategy for restoring full employment and economic growth is based on a revival of private investment. 
That strategy, or wishful thought, was put into legislation on 1 June, the essential features of which I have already detailed. Common sense would have suggested that, at a time when industry was operating at well below capacity, when manufacturing industry, to which the allowance was presumably largely directed, was operating at capacities estimated at between 70 and 80 per cent, and when there was no sign of a resurgance of consumer demand, it would be extremely difficult to persuade private business to embark upon a new or expanded investment program. Of course, some private investment was made; some private investment will continue to be made The point, however, is that that level of investment almost certainly would have taken place with or without the investment allowance. 
Superimposed on the improbability of private business embarking upon a new investment program when it already had surplus capacity and when there was no sign of a resurgence of* consumer demand was the fact that many private businesses also had liquidity problems and probably still have them. Regardless of their desires they were not, therefore, in a position financially to be able to embark upon a new investment program. The improbability of the investment allowance being effective in achieving the objectives stated in those circumstances was seriously aggravated by the fact that the Government announced that the 40 per cent rate would be available for 2 te years with an additional concession period of 12 months for plant not fully installed and a rate of 20 per cent would be available for a further 5 years. 
The message was given to business very clearly that here was a massive taxpayerprovided subsidy for business investment. In effect the Government was saying: 'We would like you to embark upon a major investment program immediately because we believe that it will stimulate an economic recovery but we will continue to make this concession available at the maximum rate for a further 2  Vi  years. Therefore, there is really no hurry to rush into an investment program'. That was the ambivalent policy which was presented to private business by the Government. It said: 'We want you to rush into a major investment program now, but if you do not feel like doing it it does not matter because you have  2Vi  years to delay and to procrastinate and you can still reap the maximum benefit from the concession'. 
Perhaps more important in the longer term than the absurdity of making the allowance available for such a long period and justifying it on the hypothesis of an investment-led recovery is that we have now been locked into an economic policy which may be totally inappropriate to the circumstances prevailing two, three or five years hence. To a significant degree, our options are closed for 7'/i years. No rational Government ought to make a decision to lock itself into a policy which may be inappropriate at a time so far ahead. Of course, there is the possibility that the legislation may be repealed or amended- remote though it is while the present managers are in control of the economy. I refer particularly to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The possibility that they may be replaced by people more literate in these matters perhaps justifies an attempt to convey a different view to the Government. To his great credit,  Senator Gatton,  a member of the present Government who clearly has considerably more comprehension of these matters than his Leader or his Treasurer, as early as 1 1 February publicly repudiated the notion that there would be an investment-led recovery or that it was a viable proposition when he said that he believed in a consumer-led recovery. 
The investment allowance did not even achieve its primary objective of stimulating the level of private capital investment. The Australian Bureau of Statistics publication entitled  New Capital Expenditure by Private Businesses in Australia  for the March 1976 quarter showed that on a seasonally adjusted basis new capital investment for all industries, excluding agriculture, although marginally higher than for the December quarter, was only one per cent higher. It was lower than it had been in the June and September quarters of last year. For manufacturing industry the level of new investment in the March quarter, on a seasonally adjusted basis, was lower than it had been for more than 2 years. I attempted to obtain a copy of the June publication today but I was unsuccessful. I am not sure whether the figures for the June quarter have been published. There have been rumours in the Press that private new capital investment increased by 7 per cent in the June quarter but the reason for that is most certainly the desire to businesses to take advantage of the 20 per cent accelerated depreciation allowance for investment before 30 June rather than the continuing benefit of the investment allowance. 
There is an important difference in principle between accelerated write-off and an investment allowance. That ought to suggest to the Government that, if it wants a particular taxation concession to be effective in terms of stimulating new investment, it will be much more effective if it is clearly stated that the time for its availablity is limited and unless private business undertakes investment within a short-term period the concession will no longer be available. 
I confidently predict that private investment for the September quarter will fall below the level of the June quarter. That is not simply wild speculation or wishful thinking. The Melbourne  Age  of 1 6 August reported on a survey conducted by W. D. Scott and Co. which found that gloom and pessimism still prevail among the country's business chiefs. The article states: 
Less than 30 per cent expected a 'definite economic recovery ' in the next year. The majority said they hoped for a real recovery late next year or early in 1 978. 
For the immediate future about 40 per cent predicted they would cut their employment in the next 4 months. 
The same number said their stocks would run down and more than 30 per cent predicted cutbacks in overtime. 
At this stage there is certainly no decisive evidence that the investment allowance has succeeded. If in fact the assumption of a 7 per cent increase in the June quarter is correct, that will almost certainly be a temporary abberration and not an indication of a long term trend. It is not seriously suggested by anyone in the business community that the investment allowance, extremely costly though it is, has been effective in achieving its primary objective of inducing a greater volume of private capital investment. Indeed, it now seems to have been largely dropped from the political rhetoric of its architects, Messrs Fraser and Lynch. 
The strategy of the present Government in December last year for restoring full employment and economic growth has been tacitly abandoned although legislatively enshrined. It is quite apparent from Tuesday night's Budget Speech that there is no strategy for recovery. The Budget tacitly acknowledges that unemployment will be higher in the next 6 months and at least as high 12 months hence as it is now. It sets out a strategy of reducing real wages. It provides no stimulus to consumer demand. It gives no reason whatsoever for anyone to believe that there will be an economic recovery. The strategy that the Budget revealed with more clarity than any strategy for economic recovery is that it is this Government's desire to make life more comfortable for selected businesses during a recession- a recession which, by the Government's conscious and deliberate decision, will be both deepened and prolonged. 
The objections to these investment allowances are not based simply on their cost. I have noted that the Budget documents estimate that there will be a cost to revenue this year of $200m and a cost to revenue next year of $600m arising from the investment allowance. Of course, there is a time lag of 12 months between the actual investment being made and the cost to revenue. Ideologically-based obsessions with balanced Budgets still dominate the thinking of this Government, notwithstanding the fact that it brought in a Budget which runs to a deficit which, when properly corrected, is just as great as the deficit was last year. I do not criticise the Government for doing that. I assume that it is some concession to reality that even the most case-hardened ideological prejudices have to pay some heed to reality. It must have become apparent to a majority of the members of the 
Government anyway that this ideological commitment to a balanced Budget could not be achieved this year; nor, I forecast, will it be achieved next year. Grudgingly, no doubt, and unwillingly a certain amount of reality has intruded into the policies of this Government. . 
Nevertheless, given that this obsession with having a balanced Budget is paramount in the Government's thinking, the fact that a concession has been granted for a purpose- a purpose which was always questionable and a purpose which it has clearly failed to achieve but which has been so COStlY to revenue- automatically means that a commensurate sum will be cut off government expenditure somewhere else. Of course, the areas in which government expenditure has been cut back to finance this very costly and ineffective investment allowance are the specific purpose grants to the States, which have a very high employment generating potential, the direct capital expenditure on public works by the Federal Government, which likewise has a very high employment generating potential, and such other fields as Aboriginal affairs, which  Senator Bonner  was quite vocal about yesterday, noting that both the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the previous caretaker Minister had repudiated the undertakings that they gave to the Aboriginal community and to the Australian people as a whole not to cut expenditure on Aboriginal affairs. That probably does not have very much employment generating potential. Nevertheless it is still one of the consequences of this Government's investment allowance policy. 
In the longer term it just seems to be patently absurd to attempt to justify a policy of subsidising the substitution of capital for labour and then to attempt to justify that policy on the grounds of stimulating the level of employment. There is a fundamental contradiction in that proposition. It is theoretically possible to conceive that new capital investment in a particular industry which is technologically inefficient and therefore noncompetitive may make that industry more efficient and therefore more competitive and perhaps lead to a growth in output so great that it more than offsets the capital for labour substitution, and therefore the total employment in that industry may increase, even though the amount of labour required to produce a given level of production will fall. That is a theoretical possibility in specific industries. It might even be possible that it applies to the Australian shipbuilding industry, although that is pure speculation. 
This policy, however, is not directed at specific industries which are actually technologically inefficient because their capital is too shallow. It is directed right across the board in areas in which it may have some use and in areas in which clearly its only effect will be to displace labour with capital. Any industry which is producing a commodity for which the demand is quantitatively limited must come into that category. To whatever degree that capital displaces labour- of course, if one subsidises capital one encourages that sort of displacement- total employment in that industry will decline. We had a fairly dramatic example of that in Western Australia last October when the Swan Brewery announced that it was proceeding with a $50m investment in a new plant at Canning Vale, I think it is. That decision was not affected by this Government's investment allowance policy- it pre-dated that- but it illustrates the principle. The Swan Brewery announced the investment of $50m in this new plant and simultaneously stated that it would lead to the retrenchment of 300 of its staff. That is about 30 per cent of the brewery's total employment. 
Another area in which the cost to revenue will be quite significant this financial year is in the purchase of very large tractors. These tractors are usually imported. I may say more about that a little later. There is a pretty effective ceiling on the level of agricultural output in Australia which is marketable. There again, the effect of this sort of purchase, which is encouraged by the investment allowance, will be to displace labour from agriculture, which will therefore inevitably accelerate the drift in population from agricultural areas to the city about which the National Country Party of Australia does a lot of grandstanding but for which it appears to have no effective policies to overcome. Of course, the only policies which would effectively overcome the situation would be policies concerning things like growth centres and attempts to move manufacturing industry and tertiary industry into the country areas because the potential for employment in agriculture has been declining for 30 or 40 years and almost certainly will continue to decline. 
In adopting this investment allowance policy as the linchpin of what the Government used to call its strategy for restoring full employment the Government has, of course, repudiated a recommendation of the Mathews Committee. In considering a choice between the indexation of company stocks and depreciation allowances as against an investment allowance policy as a means for assisting business, the Mathews Committee rejected the investment allowance policy and came down on the side of the indexation of company stocks and depreciation. I have noted that the Government has half-implemented now, or signified its intention to half-implement, the indexation of stocks held. It has thereby done 2 things, of course. It has given highest priority to the policy that the Mathews Committee rejected. It has enacted one and endorsed another, thereby rejecting the Mathews Committee's assessment that these 2 measures should be seen not as a complementary measures but as alternatives. 
Continuing a little further with the investment allowance policy and the interaction between the investment allowance policy and the other taxation measures announced in the Budget this week, clearly the major beneficiary from the Government's policy will not be manufacturing industry which has the greatest employment generating potential, but mining. The Government will abolish the coal tax progressively. It has signified its intention, contrary to the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission, to allow the write-off of capital expenditure on mining development, ports, associated facilities and so on over a5-year period instead of the 15-year period which the LAC recommended. In addition to that, the 40 percent investment allowance will apply in relation to most expenditure by mining companies. The compound effect of all those measures will be that more than 50 per cent of the capital expended on new mining development will, in fact, be provided by the Government but it will secure no equity. From that I must assume that the Government has no objection to committing taxpayers' funds to mining industry development. Its only objection is to taxpayers ' securing any equity in return. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  It refers to an allegation made in the book  Crash Through or Crash  written by the Canberra journalist, Laurie Oakes, that during the Senate blockage of Supply last year  Senator Hall  and  Senator Bunton  had planned to call upon the Governor-General and request him to ask the Senate to vote upon the Appropriation Bills but were dissuaded from doing so by the  Clerk  of the Senate.  Mr President,  will you investigate that allegation to determine its accuracy? If it is true, will you also determine whether such partisan involvement by a servant of the Senate is consistent with the duties and obligations of a servant of the Senate? 
I  present the following petition from 1 5 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we deplore the confusion generated by the Government's proposals to radically modify the system of health insurance in Australia; 
That we believe the changes will destroy the concept of universality previously incorporated in Medibank; 
That the Government 's actions will lead to a two-class system of health care and thereby creating a division in Australian society; 
That the unnecessary duplication of health insurance funds created by Medibank and private organisations both operating will lead to gross administrative inefficiency, waste and increased costs. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government retain at least the original Medibank Scheme. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister on Federal Affairs, refers to his answer to a question asked last Thursday by  Senator Wriedt  in which the Minister asserted that total payments to the States will be higher in real terms this year than they were last year. The Minister claimed also that that supported his answer to a question asked by me on 27 April. Leaving aside the basis on which  Senator Carrick  calculated the alleged 14 per cent increase, I ask him: Does he know that on 27 April I asked him not whether total payments to the States would be maintained in real terms but whether they would increase in the next 3 years by more than the 58 per cent in real terms by which they did increase in the 3 years ending 1975-76? To that question the Minister replied on 27 April: '. . . my answer is an unqualified yes '. I further ask the Minister: Does he still assert that his 27 April answer is correct or should it be regarded as a well considered or amplified statement? 
-On the first page of the Budget Speech delivered last week, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  made this assertion: 
The farm sector was in a state of collapse. 
This statement refers, of course, to last year when the present Government came to office. The latest publication of  Trends,  a publication of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, dated June 1976 has forecast a 27 per cent decline in net farm income for this financial year. If, as the Treasurer asserted, the farm sector last year was in a state of collapse, how, I wonder, will the farm sector survive a 27 per cent fall in net farm income. I wonder whether any of the National Country Party senators, or the one National Country Party senator sitting opposite, could tell me how, if the farm sector was in a state of collapse, it will survive a 27 per cent fall in real net farm income. If he is unable to explain how the farm sector will survive perhaps he will tell me whether the Treasurer was wrong, whether the Treasurer's assertion was false, or whether the BAE's forecasts are wildly inaccurate. I wait eagerly for his reply. 
The farm sector will receive little comfort from this Budget. Despite all the windy rhetoric, particularly of the National Country Party component of the Government, over the last 3 years, net payments to agriculture within this Budget will be negative. Repayments by the Australian Wool Corporation, as the stock of wool is sold off, will amount to $245m and payments to agriculture, as outlined in the Budget papers, will be just under $220m so there will be a negative net payment to agriculture. I do not wish to suggest that wild across-the-board handouts would necessarily have achieved anything towards overcoming the structural problems of several sectors of Australian agriculture. Those very structural problems themselves reflect the inept policies, the across-the-board handouts and the mindless expansionary policies fostered and foisted upon agriculture for many years by Liberal-National Country Party Governments. 
I want to refute yet again a myth that I have refuted many times before. I trust that ultimately it might penetrate the consciousness of members of the Government who keep making false assertions. The myth is that under the Labor Administration Australian farmers had a very bad financial deal and were in grave economic troubles. The simple facts of the situation are that for the 3 calendar years ending 1975, net farm income in constant 1966 value dollars was $ 1,430m; for the 3 preceding years it was $980m, also in 1966 value dollars. So for the 3 years of Labor Government the amount was 45 per cent higher than it had been in the 3 preceding years of coalition government and according to the BAE forecast the figure was 27 per cent higher last year than it will be this year. 
If any Government senators wish to dispute the accuracy of those figures while I have a chance to reply, I trust they will speak now else forever hold their tongues. There is silence on the opposite side of the chamber. Yet previous experience, I fear, suggests very strongly that the moment they are away from anyone who can refute the falsehoods they state, they will slip back into repeating the same falsehoods as they have repeated  ad nauseam  over the last  Vh  years. 
There are problems- both chronic and acute -of excess capacity in several sectors of Australian agriculture. They will not be solved by the searching for scapegoats or the blind-alley thinking exhibited consistently by the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Minister for Primary Industry, for example, when addressing the official opening of the United Farmers and Graziers Association Conference in Sydney on 2 1 July, was peddling the line that the only thing that had caused any problem with Australian agriculture was inflation. In an attempt to prop up his hypothesis he said: 
In the meat industry, for example, in the 4 years from June 1970 to June 1974, killing and boning costs together with associated labour charges rose about 73 per cent. 
That statement is accurate. Then he said: 
In the next 12 months to June 1975 these same costs escalated by a further 80 per cent, largely as a result of wage increases. 
Costs, said the Minister for Primary Industry, had gone up 80 per cent in a 12-month period. Is not that fantastic? Without being unduly suspicious of statements that have been made over the years by the Minister and having known many of them to be false, even superficially it seemed that that was unlikely. I was collecting data to check and refute that statement when I was saved the trouble. Just a fortnight later, when the Minister was opening the National Cattlemen's Council of Queensland on 4 August 1976, he said: 
The total costs to shipside - 
That is the same cost he was talking about previously- over the period from July 1974, 25.06c a kilogram, moved to 29.3 1 c a kilogram in July 1 975. 
Except that the figures for June and July have been transposed- probably that means nothing because July means the beginning of July- the increase in costs that he had earlier asserted to be 80 per cent, was in fact an increase from 25.06c to 29.31c. That, by the way, is an increase of 17 per cent. I wonder whether any Government senator presently in the chamber would care to explain, either now or later, which, if either, of those mutually exclusive assertions made by the Minister for Primary Industry was true. 
The Prime Minister is more an apostle of blind alley thinking than of scapegoat searching. When opening the conference of the Victorian Farmers Union on 6 July this year he commented upon the very real problems of the manufacturing sector of the Australian dairy industry. According to the Prime Minister, the way in which to overcome the problem is to equalise milk prices. He said: 
Many of the dairy farmers now in acute difficulties would be in no difficulty if there was an appropriate equalisation based on quantity and quality throughout the whole of the State. 
Then he said: 
In Sydney whole milk prices have moved with the consumer price index. If this movement had occurred in Melbourne there would be at least an additional $40m a year to distribute to dairy farmers in Victoria. 
What he was advocating was that whole milk prices not only in Melbourne but also, of course, in the major country towns of Victoria, should be increased from 17c for a 600 millilitre carton to 23c for a 600 millilitre carton, which was the level prevailing in Sydney. Let it be very clear that what the Prime Minister was advocating was an increase of some 35 per cent in the price of milk in Victoria. But that is not the only thing. One would have thought that even the recipient of a third class honours degree from Oxford University would have sufficient perspicacity to realise that this very concept of equalisation has been a major cause of the dairy industry's current problems. Equalisation breaks the nexus between the price received by the producer and the marginal price paid by the market. So the message that comes through to the producer is to go on producing a commodity that cannot be sold. That is precisely the situation with respect to the manufacturing sector of the dairy industry today. Butter at the margin is virtually unsalable. Skim milk powder at the margin is unsalable. That is why we are accumulating a massive stockpile. Yet the Prime Minister has recommended that we should compound the idiocy by bringing the liquid milk sector of the market in with the manufacturing sector and equalising prices. 
Even if that is beyond the comprehension of the recipient of a third class honours degree from Oxford University, one would have thought that he would have some knowledge of the structure of the dairy industry in his own State, and in particular would have some knowledge of the fact that only 13 per cent of total Victorian milk production is sold on the liquid milk market and that, even if his formula for compounding disaster had been adhered to, equalising the prices for that 13 per cent around the other 87 per cent would make little difference to the average price received by dairy farmers in Victoria. In fact, it would not offset the losses that have been incurred pursuant to the decline in the price being obtained for manufactured dairy products over the last 12 or 18 months. It is the epitome of blind alley thinking. Perhaps it is fortunate, given that this man is currently the major economic strategist, if one could dignify his pontifications with that term, or the person who imposes economic policy upon this Government, that section 92 of the Constitution would almost certainly spike his plan in any case. 
The Prime Minister went on to say at the same meeting that fruit growing and dairying are industries which Australia should be well placed to undertake. It so happens that the Australian dairy industry is reasonably efficient by world standards. The problem is that people overseas just prop up their inefficient dairy industries and there is no reason to believe that that will change. The situation concerning fruit growing, which  Mr Fraser  has said is an industry that Australia should be well placed to undertake, is quite different. For purely technical reasons he was once again abysmally wrong. The simple fact is that fruit growing is a labour intensive industry in which Australia's comparative advantage has been progressively eroded over the years. It has turned into a comparative disadvantage that is progressively deteriorating. Does the Prime Minister not comprehend any of these things, or does he not care? I would suggest that the greatest enemy that the Australian farmer has or ever has had is not the person who cancels the superphosphate subsidy, as the previous Government did, or who cancels the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy, as this Government is doing, or even who makes inflammatory statements about the Russians and thereby talks us out of any possibility of selling beef in Russia, which is what the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  said about the Prime Minister's statement of 1 June. 
Yes.  Senator Archer  who is seeking to interject seems to have picked up most of his economics from the greatest of all of the Liberal Party's bourbon economic thinkers, that is, his Tasmanian colleague  Senator Wright.  I repeat that the greatest enemy of the Australian farmer is not the person who cancels the superphosphate bounty or some other fertiliser bounty, or someone who talks us out of a market for a certain product because of his belligerence towards a particular country, for whatever reason he is belligerent towards that country; it is the politician who tells the farmers what is popular instead of what is true. That is precisely what the Prime Minister, the Minister for Primary Industry and, indeed, most of the other members of the present Government who comment on the subject have been doing for the last  3lA  years if not for the last 2 decades. 
Looking at the Budget itself, I wonder what logical imperative dictated that the Government reintroduce the superphosphate bounty and phase out the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. 
The Industries Assistance Commission? The Government did not accept the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission that the superphosphate bounty be introduced retrospectively. The Government has not accepted the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on the beef industry. The Government has not accepted its views on mining industry taxation, and the Government seems to be in the process of reversing its recommendation on the subject of taxing gold mining profits. So if this Government bases its policies on an uncritical endorsement of the Industries Assistance Commission's report, all I can say is that it does it very selectively. It seems to me that a more relevant factor might be that among the group of people who really made this decision, which at the most numbers 12 people, one can find 6 consumers of superphosphate and, I expect, no consumers of nitrogen. Perhaps that is the logical imperative behind the decision. 
I turn to the subject of income equalisation deposits. I commend the Government for accepting the principle of income equalisation deposits. I think it is a very sound principle. It is one that has benefits in both directions. But its short term importance if the Budget estimates can be taken seriously- many of them should not be taken seriously- is negligible because the Government has allowed only $2m for it. Again I point out for  Senator Thomas'  benefit that in a very significant respect the Government has deviated from the IAC's recommendation on income equalisation deposits. The Industries Assistance Commission recommended that interest be paid on the deposits at the medium term bond rate but not on the tax deferred component of the deposits. That means that the IAC recommended that no interest be paid on that component of the deposit that would otherwise have had to be paid in taxation. 
That is very important because, with a maximum marginal taxation rate of 65 per cent, it means that anyone who has a taxable income in excess of $28,250 this year or who had a taxable income of $25,000 last year can deposit money with those income equalisation deposits and receive an effective interest rate of 14.3 per cent. It is not only the people who could, by any reasonable definition, be considered to be farmers who qualify for this; city businessmen who have a purely nominal financial interest in agriculturewho have a $2 share in some agricultural companycan also deposit money in these IEDs and receive an effective interest rate of 14.3 per cent. 
It is a great pity and it is so unnecessary, of course, that a sound and justifiable policy is in danger of degenerating into a regressive taxation investment rort. I wonder why the Government did that? I wonder whether it acted in ignorance because it could not see the implication of paying interest on the entire deposit or whether it was a Machiavellian plot designed specifically to provide a tax investment rort for some of its Pitt Street and Collins Street farmer friends. 
-Why was it done? Why did the Government do it? Could it not work out the interest rate calculation? 

 - Senator Messner tells me that the long term bond rate is 14.3 per cent. Even the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  knows better than that. What do we find for rural areas generally as distinct from the purely agriculture sector? We find that road construction funds have been cut. I remember that when I first came into the Senate in 1974 National Country Party  speaker  after National Country Party  speaker  stood up and castigated the then Australian Labor Party Government because allegedly it was not spending enough money on roads generally and on rural roads in particular. There has been an effective cut of about 5 per cent in road construction funds for this year when compared with last year. The isolated children's education allowance has not only been reduced in absolute terms but also the Government has failed to increase it in terms of the individual grant. 
The Budget tacitly acknowledges that unemployment will be higher. It will be even higher in the rural areas. Finance has been severely restricted to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In real  terms there is a cut of  about 17 per cent for radio and television services. In many areas of rural Australia the ABC is the only radio and television service received. Because of the fiscal stringency imposed upon the States by the much vaunted new federalism policy, State charges will inevitably increase. As well as everything else, this Budget is technically dishonest. It misrepresents the facts. Cosmetic adjustments have been made to the figures in order to appease the Liberal Party's deficit demonology and the Prime Minister's pre-election, preKeynesian pontifications about paying back deficits. 
I will speak slower and in monosyllables if the honourable senator cannot understand me. Statement No. 1, the summary of the 1976-77 Budget, shows a deficit in the last financial year of $3, 585m and a deficit in this financial year of $2,608m. That is what this Government and this Treasurer would like the public to believe. The truth is very different. That deficit needs to be adjusted in a number of ways. Firstly, there is an adjustment for the Medibank pre-payments to the States of $2 , 1 1 5 m which has to be subtracted from last year's deficit and added onto this year's deficit. Secondly, there has to be an adjustment for the private borrowings for the Australian Telecommunications Commission of $200m which was previously funded through the Budget. This year the Government has decided, again for cosmetic reasons, to force Telecom onto the private capital market for $200m of its borrowings. To get a comparable figure that amount has to be added to this year's Budget deficit. 
Finally, there should be an adjustment for repayments from the Australian Wool Corporation which were $3 lm last year and which are predicted to be $245m this year. That amount has to be added to the deficit for both years. What we finally come out with as a true deficit on a comparable basis is $3,40 lm for last year and $3,268m for this year. That is not very much different in real terms or as a percentage of the gross domestic product. In fact, the deficit last year was lower than it will be this year if the Budget forecasts are accurate. Of course, we have been told in the last few days that those forecasts probably are not accurate. 
We have been told that in fact the Government will be spending more on Aboriginal welfare than the Budget figures show; that the 
Government probably will be spending more on unemployment and sickness benefits than the Budget figures show; and that  Mr Sinclair  is now twice as certain that the Government will be spending a great deal more on the agricultural sectors than the Budget figures show. Maybe other Ministers have also said that they will be spending more than the Budget figures show and I have not heard about that yet. If that is the case it just adds to the real deficit for this year. It also casts more doubts on the fundamental honesty of the figures which have been presented. It seems that the paramount objective has not been to lay down a set of estimates which truly represent fiscal transactions of the Government for this year and for last year but to come up with an answer which has been virtually pre-determined by the Liberal Party for ideological reasons. 
When the Treasurer calculated the deficit he said that Medibank should be ignored. Of course, when it comes to payments for the States the Treasurer says that the figures have to be adjusted. The Government keeps changing its definition depending on the conclusion it wants to come up with. It cooks its books according to different recipes, depending on what it wants the end product to be. When it comes to assessing payments to the States, the Treasurer says that these figures should be adjusted. This year actual payments to the States will increase by 7.2 per cent over last year according to Budget Paper No. 7, at page 7. 1 do not dispute the Treasurer's definitions in this instance. I do not think that anyone who thinks about the matter will dispute the definitions. The Treasurer says that the Budget ought to be adjusted for the early payment for hospital Medibank. If we do that it comes up to a 12.6 per cent increase. As far as I am concerned there is no argument about that. 
I pose the question again: Why does not the Treasurer apply the same rule when he is calculating the deficit? Perhaps someone can help me if there is another obvious answer which I have overlooked. But the only answer which appears to me is that the Treasurer has cooked the books. He has decided that the figures have to be presented in a certain way which is politically favourable to the Government but which, in fact, misrepresents the facts. The Medibank adjustment puts the figure up to 12.6 per cent. Then, says the Treasurer, another adjustment should be made because money was paid to the States for unemployment relief last year and no money will be paid this year. Therefore we have to knock off last year's payments the money which was paid and which will not be paid this year. If we adopted that sort of accountancy principle we could cease paying any road funds to the States and say that the Government has not reduced grants to the States. It is not as if the need for unemployment relief will be any less this year than it was last year. All the evidence, including that available from outside sources, suggests that unemployment will be very much greater. Even the Budget papers tacitly acknowledge that the number will be as great. 
This morning the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  kept insisting that the Budget papers forecast that the absolute number of people employed will increase by 2 per cent this financial year. On a year end basis that seems to be what the Budget papers forecast. What  Senator Guilfoyle  has overlooked is that the potential work force will also increase by 2 per cent. Therefore, if the absolute number of people employed increases by 2 per cent and if the work force increases by 2 per cent the level of unemployment remains precisely where it is now. So there will be as great a need for payments to the States for unemployment relief as there was last year. But no provision has been made for that in this Budget. 

 Senator Carrick in that euphoric period in March and April when he was making the most extravagent statements about new federalism and issuing most extravagent promises about what it would achieve guaranteed with an unqualified yes that payments to the States would increase in the next 3 years in real terms by something more than 58 per cent over the amount by which they had increased in the previous 3 years. Of course, now  Senator Carrick  squirms and filibusters at every question time trying to find some way out of the answer which he gave and which he will not admit was false. Today we had the spectacle of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  trying to end question time to rescue  Senator Carrick  from further interrogation on the subject. 
The Budget in general can be described only as a dismal and dishonest document. It is dishonest because it deliberately misrepresents the facts concerning the Government's fiscal transactions. It is dismal because it implies higher unemployment, continuing inflation and lower real wages. The investment led recovery which, according to the policy speech of the present Prime Minister and the pre-election policies of the Liberal Party, was the only way to secure an economic recovery, has now been dropped as an economic measure from the Fraser-Lynch rhetoric. Economic recovery now seems to be predicated on the assumption of a consumer led recovery. That conclusion that there will be a consumer led recovery is arrived at against a background of lower real wages and threats of higher unemployment. Given that background, the Budget papers seem to suggest that consumers will go out and spend more. Perhaps they will. But it just seems to be a little in conflict with common sense. I suspect that the real reason for this suggestion is that the Government does not care. It does not care whether there is an economic recovery, consumer led or otherwise. 
Its unstated strategy is to try to get inflation down by the use of massive unemployment. There is little doubt that the massive unemployment will materialise. Whether the lower rates of inflation will actually materialise is more doubtful. Again, the Budget papers do not seem to be particularly optimistic on this subject. The Treasurer talks in a somewhat vague and qualified way about single digit inflation by the end of June. Other assumptions in the Budget are based on a 12 per cent price increase on a yearonyear basis. Economic recovery is not the strategy of this Budget, and I use the word 'strategy' only insofar as one can dignify the Budget with the use of that word. The strategy of the Budget is to make the recession which has been deliberately deepened and extended by this Government more comfortable for business. 
Of course, it is not surprising that the newspapers in Australia which comment most seriously on fiscal matters have seen this coming. Indeed, in the last couple of days we have seen newspaper articles on the subject. The  Australian Financial Review  of 25 August 1976 stated: 
Production downturn reduces hopes of recovery. Motor vehicle sales which had been previously booming turn down. 
The Melbourne  Age  of yesterday's date, 25 August 1976, states in an article by its economic writer, Kenneth Davidson: 
On Monday, car registration figures showed a sharp down- turn- sharper than might have been expected. Yesterday industrial production figures for July showed a slump. A Business Age survey showed the retailing industry in the doldrums and that car sales have shown no signs of recovery. 
The Bureau of Statistics figures showed only 10 of the 32 basic items of production increased after seasonal adjustment in the 3 months to July compared with the previous 3 months. 
Many of the newspaper articles continue in that vein. 
I do not intend to go through in great detail the specific alterations that have been made under the various heads of expenditure. This has been done by other people and I suspect it probably will be done again. But there is one matter which I think deserves special comment. Even within the rather peculiar value system of the present Prime Minister, one would wonder what the rationale would be for reducing spending on Aboriginal health programs by $lm. That is the reduction in figures. In real terms, the reduction is about $3m. I would be very interested to know the rationale for that expenditure cut. One would have thought that even in the judgment of values by the Prime Minister the expenditure of money on Aboriginal health programs would be seen as a good investment. This is not because people like the Prime Minister are usually very concerned about the health or welfare of people in any way. If money is spent on Aboriginal health programs- on actions that are likely to reduce the incidence of infantile disease, debility and so on- it will not be necessary to hospitalise more people later or perhaps to keep more of them in gaol later. I would have thought that, even to the Prime Minister, these programs would have looked like a pretty good investment. I wonder why the expenditure was cut. 
There have been very few persons to gain from this Budget, apart from the minor exception of a few families. It is not the 300 000 families, as the Treasurer keeps insisting, whose incomes were not high enough to take advantage of the dependant's rebate scheme introduced in the Hayden Budget. Incidentally, I endorse the modifications made to that 1975 Hayden Budget scheme by the present Budget. But this Budget will not provide major benefits for 300 000 families and 800 000 people as the responsible Ministers keep asserting. Of course, those figures refer to those people who could not fully utilise the previous taxation rebates. But there will be gains for some low income families and, to the extent that the Budget does this, it is good. However, apart from that minor exception, the only major group to gain from this Budget will be the mining sector. I guess that the Government hopes- I do not think we could call this a strategythat the mining section will lead the economic recovery which has eluded the Government everywhere else and which will continue to elude it. 
The Government may be lucky; that may happen, if there is a very quick and very intense resurgence of demand overseas for Australian minerals. It does not seem likely but perhaps it will happen. If it does not happen, this strategy of helping the mining sector, while it would be very costly to revenue, is unlikely to have much effect on the level of employment for 2 reasons: Firstly, unless and until that major resurgence in overseas demand reappears, there is a quantitative limit on the demand for mineral exports. 
That will not be changed by any Australian Government unless, of course, we were to indulge in massive price cutting. I notice that even the present Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  has sufficient sense to see that overseas controlled mining companies which have subsidiaries in Australia mining minerals -of course, they would like to have a price war because their overseas parent companies would be the major beneficiaries of it- will not be permitted to allow that to happen. So there is at the moment a quite severe quantitative limit on demand for these minerals. 
The second and perhaps more important point -it is the one that is permanent, anyway-is that mining developments are capital intensive. They are small employers of labour. It is true that, in the construction phase, the employment rate is higher. But in the producing stage, they are small employers of labour. Any strategy for full employment which features as a 'Lynch '-pin- pardon the pun- massive growth in the mining sector is likely to fail. It almost has failure built into it. 
-The cumulative effect of what? 
In the construction phase the employment generating potential is somewhat higher. In the production stage they are very capital intensive industries. That will always be the case. The reason why the industry is competitive is that it is capital intensive. 
Of course, the Fraser philosophy comes through very clearly in this Budget. It is not seriously based on any economic theory. What it is based on is the Prime Minister's ideological preference.  His  basic ideological j judgement is that all public sector spending is bad and that all private sector spending is good. Therefore, all taxation is immoral. Therefore, a tax dodge is the universal panacea for every problem that arises. I concede freely to the Government that this is a very difficult time for governments in the area of economic management. I concede that this has been the case for some time in Australia and overseas and that it is most unfortunate. However, it also seems unfortunate that at this time Australia's economic policy seems to be dictated by a Prime Minister whose obsession with deficits is equalled only by his failure to understand the true meaning of a deficit, a man who does not understand the concept of a deficit and appears to know nothing about the concept of money supply or to have any interest in it. This Prime Minister was described by his former Oxford tutor as the greatest of all the colonial drongoes that were ever inflicted on Oxford University. He is assisted in devising his economic strategy by a Treasurer who was described by the Economic Editor of the Melbourne  Age  on 20 August as the most technically incompetent Treasurer since Harold Holt. This is what  Mr Davidson  had to say about the present Treasurer: 
Question time in Parliament provides one of the few opportunities to judge the personal performance of Government Ministers. 
This week the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  has been in the spotlight. He has left the impression that his technical grasp of his portfolio is weaker than that of any Treasurer since the late Harold Holt. 

 Mr Lynch floundered in response to 3 relatively straightforward questions from 3 members of the OppositionMessrs Bill Hayden, Rex Connor and Tony Whitlam. 
He attempted to cover his lack of technical understanding of the Budget with bombast when straightforward answers could have turned the attack back on the Opposition. 

 Mr Davidson continued: 
As  Mr Holt's  long period as Treasurer shows, it is not an absolute pre-condition for the job to be well versed in economics. 
However,  Mr Holt  was different to  Mr Lynch  in 2 important ways. 
First,  Mr Holt  allowed the Treasury to run the economy and design the Budget. 
The first Lynch Budget is not a Treasury document in that the department violently opposed income tax indexation, the Mathews stock proposal and the 40 per cent investment allowance. 
So whilst the Treasury approves of much of what is contained in this Budget, it is not a coherent Treasury document and does not outline Treasury strategy. It outlines a Treasury strategy which has been meddled with and amended in particular by the 2 people I have mentioned who obviously, from their public record and their statements, have absolutely no grasp of the subject. 
I hear someone babbling on the other side of the chamber and trying to defend the Prime Minister. I wonder whether honourable senators opposite would like to defend the Prime Minister on his assertion in September, October, November and December last year that deficits had to be paid back. During the general election campaign the Prime Minister was saying that we had overspent by $6 billion and that it was just like a household that has overspent- if one overspends one has to pay the money back. Would any of the Government senators like to endorse the Prime Minister's judgment on that matter? No. I am very pleased to see that not one supporter of the Government who is in the chamber at the moment- all eight or nine of them- agrees with his Prime Minister when he says that deficits have to be paid back and that a national deficit is analagous to a household deficit. I am very pleased to see that 9 supporters of the present Government are at least marginally more literate in economics than their Leader. 
If honourable senators want to talk about deficits- they seem to be a matter of such interest to the Prime Minister- the possible effect of a deficit on the inflation rate is that it may increase the money supply. Whether it does increase the money supply depends entirely on the way it is funded. Just because the money supply increases it does not necessarily mean that the rate of inflation will rise. I presume that at least some of the honourable senators opposite know something already about that because they know that what their Prime Minister has been saying is sheer nonsense and they would not stand up and support him. Even if the Prime Minister was right and we did have to pay back $6 billion as he asserted- it turned out to be $5 billion and not $6 billion- we would now have to pay back nearly $8 billion. So we can see how much worse our position is now than it was 1 2 months ago. 
As the  Australian Financial Review  states, even a person moderately literate in economics would recognise that what the Prime Minister says is patent nonsense. That statement sums up the situation very succinctly. Upon this dismal, dishonest document, soon to be discredited, rests the Fraser Government's final hopes for justifying its infamies of last year. This document will fail to justify those infamies and it will be seen to have failed. If the members of the present Government have any interest in remaining in government I suggest that they should unload this Leader at the earliest opportunity. 
Does the Minister representing the Treasurer know that following the Government's $309m 'compensatory financing facility' loan from the International Monetary Fund, the Treasurer stated on 3 July that it was to finance 'balance of payments deficits arising from a 'shortfall' in export receipts below trend performance*? I ask the Minister also whether he knows that on 9 July, that is 6 days later, the Prime Minister stated: 
Our exports in June, $973m, were a record and for 1975-76 as a whole, exports were 10 per cent higher than in 1974-75. 
The Prime Minister continued: 
. export volumes have begun to grow more rapidly, at the same time, average export prices are firming. 
I ask the Minister: Which, if either, of those seemingly contradictory versions represents the Government's present assessment of the strength and future performance of the export sector? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it correct, as this morning's  Australian Financial Review  states, that the Treasurer's August statistical round-up does not include capital transactions. If so, is this omission without precedent? When will the Treasurer produce the capital movement figures and thereby refute or confirm the rumours that there was a substantial capital exodus from Australia during August? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) How many family trusts were registered in Australia (a) in 1972-73, and (b) in 1975-76, or the most recent available year. 
In each year, what was the aggregate income liable to be taxed, either within the trusts, or after distribution to individual beneficiaries. 
In each year, what was the aggregate tax revenue obtained from income originating from these trusts, whether the tax was levied within the trusts or upon their beneficiaries. 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. I remind him that in portion of his answer to a question on this subject last Wednesday he said: 
For the last 6 months the Australian Labor Party in the Senate has alleged that State governments did not have enough money to carry out their duties and that, as a result, they were not able to employ a sufficient number of people in their States. 
Whilst I can remember  Senator Wriedt,  myself and others who have spoken on the subject saying that the States will be starved for funds this financial year, I can recall no Labor senators saying that the States were starved for funds last financial year, as  Senator Carrick  has said, as far back as 6 months ago, they were. Therefore I ask whether  Senator Carrick  will identify the Labor senators who are alleged to have stated that the States were starved for funds in 1975-76, and when they made the alleged statements. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government, refers to the Press statement of 7 July this year in which the Prime Minister announced that he had appointed  Senator Cotton  as  Deputy  Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask: Does this appointment provide further proof that Liberal Party senators are totally subservient to the Leader of the Liberal Party in the House of Representatives? 
Given the terms in which this motion is couched, that is, the condemnation of the Government for its 'failure to ensure the independence, integrity and high repute ' of the ABC, I think it is fair to remind  Senator Martin,  who has just resumed her seat, of some of the complaints which were cited by  Senator Button,  who led for the Labor Party in this debate. The Government has cut the funds for the Australian Broadcasting Commission effectively by 15 per cent. The Government has failed to take the advice of  Sir Henry  Bland that he would not be a fit person to be  Chairman  of Commissioners of the ABC. The Government failed to accept  Sir Henry's  own assessment of his incompetence for that job. Moreover, the complaint in particular which has come from the Labor Party this afternoon is that the recent actions of  Sir Henry  Bland violate the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
That legislation provides that the commissioners shall control the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The recent actions of  Sir Henry  Bland not only have been taken unilaterally and dictatorially but also he has been publicly repudiated on one such action by at least 2 commissioners of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. So far as I know none of the other commissioners has publicly endorsed the action which  Sir Henry  has taken. I think it is fair to remind  Senator Martin  of those facts. 

 Senator Martin piously complained with an allegation that the Labor Party this afternoon had abused the privilege of Parliament. I find it incongruous, to say the least, to hear this from a member of the Liberal Party, particularly a senator from Queensland, the State Parliament of which, we will remember, was recalled the week before a federal election so that the Premier could make entirely unsubstantiated allegations about the honesty of Cabinet Ministers in the former Labor Government. That was the degree to which the privilege of the State Parliament of Queensland was misused by a person who leads the political Party which is aligned in coalition in the Government of Queensland with  Senator Martin's  Party. 
I find it incongruous, to say the least, to hear this from people whose present Treasurer, just before the previous general election, accused the former Labor Party Treasurer of stealing files and had this allegation published by courtesy of the Murdoch Press.  Mr Hayden  was defended by none other than  Senator Greenwood.  The people who sit in alliance with and in the same parties as those who have abused that sort of privilege in the past have the audacity to complain about alleged breaches of privilege today. I remind all the members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party that they sit on the Government benches today because of actions taken in the Queensland Parliament, a Parliament wherein privilege has been breached more consistently and more outrageously than in any other Parliament in Australia. 
This motion is an attack upon the Government. The fact that  Sir Henry  Bland is attacked is incidental because he is the appointee of this Government- appointed to do a particular job. Last year we saw a long campaign of intimidation directed against the Australian Broadcasting Commission by members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. We have seen a continuing attack on the integrity and the reputation of that organisation. Just before the Vietnam war ended- I think it was in February 1975 but I did not have time to extract the original quotationwe had none other than the National Country Party member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  vociferously complaining about what he alleged to be a left wing bias in the news department of the Australian Broadcasting Commission because the ABC had broadcast a report on an action in Vietnam which referred to 'forces opposed to the Saigon Government'. This,  Mr Nixon  said, was outrageous. He said that the ABC was displaying its left wing bias; that it should have told the truth and said that they were Communist North Vietnamese forces which were engaged in that action. Two days later independent corroboration showed that the action was fought between troops of the Saigon Government and hill tribesmen of South Vietnam, who could scarcely be described as Communist North Vietnamese but who in fact had been described with perfect accuracy by the ABC as ' forces opposed to the Saigon Government '. 
Then of course we heard  Senator Withers,  in one of those moments of candour for which he has become famous when he shows his mind before he has an opportunity to bite his tongue, say on 24 March this year in this very Senate: 
Do not raise the Australian Broadcasting Commission. You blokes - 
He was referring to the Labor Party-  have been leaning on it for years. It is full of your supporters and has been pumping out your propaganda year in year out. That is not a matter of opinion; it is a matter of notoriety. The sooner it is cleaned up the better as far as I am concerned. 

 - Senator Withers, the Leader of the Government, said that on 24 March this year.  Senator Withers  again showed his mind before he had an opportunity to curb his tongue.  Sir Henry  Bland was appointed  Chairman- Chairman  ipso facto  dictator- of the ABC to perform the task which  Senator Withers  sees as the task of cleaning up the ABC. This means, of course, to intimidate the ABC to stifle all objective comment and to turn the ABC into a timid mouthpiece of the Government which is in power. 

 Senator Carrick attempted to defend  Sir Henry  on the grounds that the Commission runs the ABC. He said that yesterday in reply to a question. He repeated it today. Apparently  Senator Carrick  has still not deduced that one of the major complaints of the Labor Party is about the very fact that the ABC, under its present  Chairman,  is currently under one-man rule.  Sir Henry  Bland has taken unilateral decisions without the consent of the other Commissioners. In the Melbourne  Sun  of 8 September, that is last Wednesday, an article by Laurie Oakes reported discussions between  Sir Henry  Bland and a number of journalists at a Canberra restaurant. The article stated: 
People at the meeting said yesterday that  Sir Henry  also criticised top management of the National Broadcasting network. 
They said he told them that no ABC chairman in 44 years had really run the organisation. 
The only inference or conclusion which one can draw from that statement is that  Sir Henry  Bland clearly believes that he, the present  Chairman,  ought to run the organisation. No ABC  chairman  in 44 years had really run the organisation. That was true. Of course that situation has changed under  Sir Henry. Sir Henry  has publicly stated that fact. 
Members of the Liberal and National Country Parties are attempting to denigrate this debate and pass it off as character assassination. The difference between this suggestion- if one must see it in terms of character assassination, and  Sir Henry  is really only incidental to the argumentand the facts presented by the Opposition is that we can produce evidence to support the charges we make against  Sir Henry  Bland. This is in contradistinction to the Premier of Queensland, for example, and the present Treasurer of Australia who have been unable to produce any evidence to support the outrageous charges they have made from time to time. The second great fallacy which  Senator Carrick  attempted to perpetrate in the Senate this afternoon is that  Sir Henry  Bland is a political neuter. I do not think he actually used that phrase but the substance of his remarks was that, so far as anyone in the Liberal Party knew,  Sir Henry  Bland had never been a member of the Liberal Party and therefore ought to be regarded as- and is- totally independent politically. That fallacy has been contradicted by  Sir Henry  himself. He said at the Garran Memorial Oration on 17 November 1975: 
No senior administrator can be otherwise than sensitive of political thought and attitudes. He must take them into account in advising his Minister and in administering his department or agency. 
It was  Sir Henry  Bland- a political neuter- who said that no senior administrator can be otherwise than sensitive of political thought and action! Certainly, no one would accuse  Sir Henry  Bland, the man appointed by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to head the ABC and to clean it up, as  Senator Withers  puts it, of being insensitive to political thought and action. No one could justly accuse  Sir Henry  of being other than extremely sensitive to the political thoughts of the Government which is in power. Indeed, that is the reason why  Sir Henry  was appointed to that position. 
The long-standing close relationship between the present  Chairman  of the ABC and the Prime Minister is also relevant to this debate, as are the qualifications and the fitness of this particular Australian to hold some of the positions he has held. He was the  chairman  of the committee of investigation, the precise name of which I have forgotten, which was appointed soon after the present Government came to power. 
My colleague  Senator McClelland  has reminded me that it was the Administrative Review Tribunal.  Sir Henry  was investigating activities of government regulatory agencies such the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Industries Assistance Commission. The  Australian Financial Review  of 9 July this year drew attention to the incongruity of  Sir Henry  Bland holding such a position, given his directorships and the fact that he is, and I quote from the  Financial Review:   on the board of Tubemakers of Australia Ltd, which was giving evidence before the IAC in Sydney yesterday. 

 Sir Henry is also a member of the board of United Bearing Corp Pty Ltd and Blue Circle Southern Cement Ltd. 
This was the man appointed by the present Prime Minister to review and make recommendations upon the activities of government regulatory agencies. He was director of a company which, after  Sir Henry  had conducted that review, was giving evidence before the IAC in an application for industry assistance. 
The point is that the precedent which was established in appointing someone to a particularly sensitive position in government when he cannot, because of his other associations, properly fill that position, has been repeated in the appointment of the present Chairman to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
An attempt has been made to justify this chicanery on the ground that  Sir Henry  is a particularly competent and efficient administrator. As my colleague,  Senator Button,  said when opening this debate for the Labor Party, history is fable agreed upon. This fable appears to have been agreed upon in Canberra. It is a notorious fact in this city that after  Sir Henry  Bland left the 
Department of Defence it was in such an administrative shambles that it took  Sir Arthur  Tange 12 months to clean it up.  Sir Henry  was the permanent head of the Department of Labour and National Service for I think 10 or 1 1 years. In all that time he did not manage to produce anything remotely resembling a manpower policy. Of course, these facts will be dismissed by members of the Liberal Party who follow me in this debate and written off as character assassination directed against a worthy Australian. 
I make two points. If members of the Liberal Party want to talk about character assassination I invite them to make some comments about the Premier of Queensland who called a special session of the Queensland Parliament in which to smear, without any evidence whatsoever, every member of the Ministry of the former Labor Government. I remind them that they sit on the government benches today because of the action of the Premier of Queensland. 
If anything is to be said about character assassination,  Senator Missen,  by you or any other Liberal Party senators who follow me in this debate I urge you to offer some comments about character assassination as practised and perfected by the Premier of Queensland. The second point I wish to make is that  Sir Henry  Bland is merely incidental to this debate. The real villains are the people who appointed him to his present position to a particular job- as  Senator Withers  so lucidly and succinctly put it, to clean up the ABC. 
Sitting suspended from 5.48 to 8 p.m. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of his little homily a few moments ago on the virtue of Prime Ministers having unlimited power to sack other Ministers, I ask: Can the present Prime Minister unilaterally sack a National Country Party Minister? If so, can we expect him to sack the Deputy Prime Minister for repudiating the Government's stated economic policy by flying the devaluation kite last Monday? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, refers to an advertisement which was published in the  Merredin Mercury  on 2 September last and to a nearly identical advertisement published in the  Countryman  of 16 September of what is euphemistically called a study tour of the John Deere factory at Moline, Illinois, United States of America, being available to anyone who buys a John Deere 8430 or 8630 tractor before the end of December this year. These tractors cost about $50,000. The advertisement states that all expenses, including ground and air travel, meals and accommodation, are included. I ask the Minister: Would this overseas junket be subsidised by the Australian taxpayer through depreciation allowances and especially the 40 per cent investment allowance? If so, is it the intention of the 
Government that the investment allowance be used in that way? If not, what steps will the Treasurer take to protect the revenue? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It refers to widespread Press reports in the last 2 days that the Government has blocked  Sir Charles  Court's attempts to raise overseas loans outside the Loan Council and has threatened the Government of Victoria with the Trade Practices Act? Are these reports incorrect? If not, has the Government realised the folly of the fragmentation of economic power, and has it abandoned the notions of State autonomy which are central to its federalism policy? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Have any Australian aid funds been used to support a microwave communications project in Indonesia. If so, how much Australian aid has been spent in support of the Indonesian microwave project in (a) 1973-74, (b) 1974-75, and (c) 1975-76. 
Has any inquiry been made of the Indonesian Government by Australian officials about the degree of duplication of facilities that will occur now that Indonesia has installed a domestic communications satellite system. 
Will there be any duplication of facilities between the two communications projects. 
If no inquiry has been made of the Indonesian Government, will the Minister arrange for the information to be obtained. 
) When was a decision taken to set aside Australian aid funds to support the Indonesian microwave project. 
When the decision to support the Indonesian microwave project was taken, was it known that the Indonesian Government also intended to install the domestic communications satellite system. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) When was the highest year on year or annual percentage increase in the consumer price index in Australia recorded, and what was that percentage increase. 
. When was. the highest quarter to quarter percentage increase in the consumer price index recorded, and what was the increase. 
'What was the percentage increase in the consumer price index from (a) December 1949 to December 1952, and (b) December 1972 to December 1975. 
Although it is not my intention to answer  Senator Jessop,  I feel I must say something in view of his confident forecast that the Liberal Party will win the House of Representatives seat of Grey at the next Federal election. It seems to me that  Senator Jessop,  as the person who lost the seat of Grey for the Liberal Party, ought to put his money where his mouth is if he is so confident, resign from the Senate, and contest the seat at the next general election. 
Last week we had a debate on the integrity of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the effects upon that integrity of the Government's appointment of one of the soul mates of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who, as  Senator Withers  succinctly put it, was appointed to clean up the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Prior to that appointment he had been commissioned to provide a secret report on government agencies which have disciplinary powers over companies of which  Sir Henry  Bland is a director. The aura of corruption which surrounds that exercise will not disappear until the Government publishes the Bland report, which I hereby challenge the Government to do. 
This week I want to ventilate an even more outrageous appointment to a body charged with supervising media ethics. The person concerned ironically happens to be apparently a friend and certainly a defender of  Sir Henry  Bland. I refer to David McNicoll, now columnist to the Sydney  Bulletin,  who has been appointed as one of the 12 industry representatives on the Australian Press Council. Of course,  Mr McNicoll  has long been known as a standing joke around Parliament House as the  Colonel Blimp  of the Press Gallery- a nineteenth century fossil who has dallied too long- a ludicrous journalistic dinosaur. That view is now untenable. 
An article written by Alan Ramsey and published in the  Nation Review  more than a month ago records that  Mr McNicoll,  as EditorinChief of the  Sydney Daily Telegraph  in 1965,  deliberately falsified the news, apparently in collusion with  Sir Robert  Askin- then  Mr Askin-  a former Premier of New South Wales, in order to obtain political advantage for the Liberal Party. The article was published in the  Nation Review  on 20 August last under the heading: 'Only the names have been changed to protect the party '. I intend to quote quite extensively from that article because it is necessary to do so. It reads: 
What happened involved a reporter named David Robertson on the staff of the  Sydney Daily Telegraph,  the notoriously anti-Labor newspaper of  Sir Frank  Packer's Consolidated Press empire. The  Telegraph's  state political roundsman at the time was a journalist named Bert Birtles. In February, on the eve of the election campaign - 
That was the 1965 general election campaign- 
Birtles went on leave. Robertson was assigned to cover state rounds in his absence. On 16 February Robertson handed in an 83 paragraph story which he had researched for a week. It dealt with a new policy initiative on land for home building which premier Renshaw intended to announce in his policy speech a week or so later. 
As written by Robertson the story said: 
He was referring to the original story written in 1965. Referring to the Renshaw Labor Government, the article continued: 

 The slate government plans to spring the biggest shock of its 23 years reign in its state election policy to be announced soon. 


 The surprise is a revolutionary new plan to 'unlock' housing land now priced too high for many buyers. 


 The premier, 
 Mr Renshaw, 
 is preparing to outline the plan in detail when he delivers Labor's policy speech. 


 Key to the housing plan is the state planning authority which the government set up early last year and which began work officially on 1 June last. 


 The plan so far has been known only to a handful of people including state cabinet ministers and trusted key departmental officers. 

And so on, for another 78 paragraphs. 
The story written by Ramsey records that after writing the story the journalist Robertson handed it to the editor of the paper. Before going home, to quote again directly from the  Nation Review. 
On this occasion Robertson felt he should leave the files and papers he had collected in researching the story just in case they were needed to check some point or other. So, carrying the accumulation, he walked into what he thought was the empty office of the editor's secretary. There he found the paper's editor in chief David McNicoll, former war correspondent and a reporter of royal weddings and the queen's coronation, busily typing at the secretary's desk. Robertson excused himself, put the files and papers down on the desk, told McNicoll what they were, was thanked and then left. 
Next morning the 17 February edition of the  Daily Telegraph  had nothing of Robertson's exclusive on what Labor proposed to do. Instead the frontpage lead story carried a headline which said  Liberals plan cheap land for home sites.  The story which followed read: 

 The Liberal party, if elected to power, would make crown land available to young home builders for nominal amounts, the state opposition leader, 
 Mr Askin, 
 said yesterday. 


 This would be fair annual rent of only a few pounds, he said. 


 The land would be made available on perpetual lease but those acquiring it could obtain freehold if they wished. 


 Mr Askin 
 said: 'In the federal sphere the Prime Minister, 
 Sir Robert 
 Menzies, is helping young people with the building of homes. 


 We propose to help them to acquire the land on which to build the homes. ' 


 And so on, etc. 


 As Ramsey records in the Nation Review article: 
There could be no mistake. Various paragraphs in both stories were almost word for word. For instance, in his story Robertson had written: 'The crown land sites will be available extensively in Sydney suburban areas, in Newcastle and Wollongong, and later in country towns.' The  Telegraph  story said:  'Mr Askin  said thousands of blocks of land were available in Sydney suburbs, in Newcastle, Wollongong and in country towns.' 
So the article continues. It also records the following: 
A few days later Birtles returned from leave. 
Birtles was the regular political correspondent for the newspaper at the time. The article continued: 
Robertson told him what had happened. 
What follows is crucial: 
Birtles in turn told Robertson that on the night of 16 February McNicoll had rung him at home to get Askin 's silent telephone number. 
And that was that, except that on 5 March the  Daily Telegraph  applied one more delicate turn of the screw. Labor by then had counter attacked, not with the Robertson version of its policy (either this had been abandoned after Askin 's 'announcement ' or Robertson had got it wrong) but with a modified scheme. The  Telegraph  in an audacious editorial on 5 March headlined  Scrambling to keep up wilh Askin  said:  'Mr Renshaw  is having some late and rather hurried thoughts about helping young people who want to build homes. If  Mr Askin  had not already beaten him to the gun on the subject, it seems unlikely that the Premier would have shown any more tenderness than the State government has so far displayed in its 24 years of power . . .' 
For 1 1 years the story was buried. But the article continues to state: 
Last January, following months of negotiations, the newspaper industry and the AJA announced agreement on the establishment of the Australian Press Council to oversee the behaviour of the media. On 22 July its 1 2 industry members, including the Consolidated Press nominee David McNicoll, met for the first time under the chairmanship of  Sir Frank  Kitto, a former judge now 73 years old. .  . The previous day Robertson sent a letter to Kitto. With it he enclosed a copy of his old story and photostat of 1 7 February 1 965 front page of the  Telegraph. 
The letter said: 
Dear  Sir Frank, 
I wish to lodge a complaint in a personal capacity before the Press council against  Mr David  McNicoll, of Australian 
Consolidated Press Ltd. Originally I expected to make the complaint after the Press council had set down its policy on retrospectivity, but in view of the fact that according to an announcement published yesterday  Mr McNicoll  has been nominated to membership of the council as a proprietors' representative, I believe the council should first determine  Mr McNicoll  's suitability for membership in the light of this complaint . 
The letter concluded: 
I wish the Press council success in all its activities. It faces a difficult and no doubt embarrassing task if it is to restore the highest standards of journalism in the Australian Press. 
Yours sincerely, DR. ROBERTSON 

 Sir Frank Kitto replied very briefly a couple of days later. He said: 

 Mr McNicoll has been nominated for membership of the Australian Press Council by one of the constituent bodies and I am afraid there is nothing I can do, or that the council can do, about the subject of your complaint which I notice relates to a matter more than 1 1 years old. 
That was published 5 weeks ago. None of the facts has been disputed by  Mr McNicoll  in any way so one can only assume that the facts set out in that story are correct. 
Many outrages have been committed by the Press in Australia, particularly by the Murdoch Press in the last 6 months of last year. I have discussed the McNicoll story with many journalists from a great number of newspapers. All have agreed that nothing in their experience or previous knowledge is comparable either in degree or in kind to the McNicoll incident.  Mr McNicoll  's outrage, his ethical perversion and his corruption are without parallel in contemporary Australian journalism. To tolerate a person like  Mr McNicoll  on a body which is charged with regulating Press ethics is analogous to appointing Ronald Biggs to guard the payroll. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
The Bills which are currently being debated by the Senate are 3 of those 5 Bills which legislate for the Government's proposed changes to the Medibank health and hospital policy. This policy exhibits what have become known as the standard attributes of the Fraser Government- dishonesty and inconsistency; determination to sacrifice convenience, efficiency and equity on the altar of ideological prejudice. In this particular case, subservience to the medical reactionaries in the Australian Medical Association, the General Practitioners Society - 
-Very well,  Mr President.  Nevertheless, I do not think it will be denied that this particular Government is more than sympathetic to the views of the Australian Medical Association, the medical profession in general and, in particular, the private health insurance funds. Finally, the attribute of the Fraser Government itself- manifest again in this legislation- is its obsession of making cosmetic adjustments to Government spending and its obsession with what it insists is saving money. That, of course, obviously arises from the singleminded obsession of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  with deficits and the size of deficits. It could be said that the only thing which matches the Prime Minister's interest in deficits and the fascination which deficits have for him is his singular inability to understand what they are and to understand what are the ramifications of a deficit. He has a remarkable inability to comprehend just what a deficit is and what effect it is likely to have upon the economy, upon the money supply, upon inflation rates and upon economic activity. 
The deficit, of course, will be reduced by this legislation in 2 ways. Firstly, the levy will be imposed. In other words, taxes will be increased in a way which is estimated to produce revenue of $250m in this financial year and $430m in a full financial year. I am not sure why the discrepancy should be so great, but they are the figures which are shown in the Budget Estimates. Secondly, of course, the Government by its own publicly stated intention hopes to force 50 per cent of the people out of the existing Medibank scheme and back into private health insurance funds. That, of course, will not save the Government money but it will reduce the volume of money which flows through the Government's accounts. The Prime Minister, like his Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  seems to be far more concerned with these cosmetic adjustments- with what is actually recorded in the accounts- and more concerned with the figures that are written down in a particular and limited set of papers than he is with reality. It will not reduce costs. It will simply reduce the amount of money which flows through the Government's accounts. 
Indeed, it has been argued by people who are outside the Australian Labor Party and have never been known to have any particular sympathies with the Australian Labor Party that the administrative costs will be enormously high.  Mr Carson,  who was the Manager of the Hospital Benefit Fund of Western Australia- which, incidentally, was shown in the Nimmo report to have been one of the most efficiently managed funds in Australia, if not the most efficientappeared on  This Day Tonight  last month in Perth. He gave his opinion that the estimate of the additional administrative costs incurred by the complexity and the confusion arising from the Government's legislation on these health and medical Bills would double the administrative costs of providing health services. He estimated that it would double it from a current figure of about $ 120m to $240m. That, of course, appears not to worry the Prime Minister or the Treasurer. As far as they are concerned, it does not matter how much it costs as long as it does not appear in the Government's accounts and as long as it does not affect the deficit. If it costs society $ 1 20m or a billion dollars more, that appears to be unimportant to the people who currently are in charge of this country. 
There is, of course, widespread and continuing public confusion about this series of Bills and their ramifications. That is not at all surprising. Indeed, it is totally predictable that widespread public confusion exists. As recently as 1 5 August, the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  issued a statement saying that all pensioners currently paying income tax would be subject to the Medibank levy. Just 9 days later on 24 August the same Minister amended that statement and said: Well, of course, pensioners who hold pensioner medical cards will be exempt from the levy'. On 20 May the initial statement was made. No suggestion was contained in it of provision being made in the legislation for the Health Insurance Commission to enter into competition for private insurance. That was amended by a subsequent statement which appeared, I think, on 6 June. Indeed, at the end of May and early June we heard the dramatic announcement by the Government- I think it was the same day that it commissioned  Mr Jonathan  Gaul, a former private or Press secretary to a number of Liberal Party leaders- that pamphlets would be prepared and were in fact being printed at that stage. It was estimated to cost $100,000. 1 think that figure has since been disputed but I think it has been decided that in fact it cost about $67,000. But that is not terribly important. The important point is that before the pamphlets came off the press they were obsolete and the whole project was scrapped because the Government had changed its mind. Now, instead of those original pamphlets which had to be scrapped before they came off the printing press, we have a 20-page booklet- 20 pages of fine type- which tries to explain to the public just what the implications are of the proposed changes in the Medibank legislation for which the Senate is legislating tonight. In addition to the widespread and continuing confusion amongst the public we have the enormous additional administrative load which this policy will thrust upon the Australian Taxation Office. 
It is worth while, I think, to review the history of the present Government's attitude to Medibank both before and after the election. On 7 July, in his address to the National Press Club at Canberra the Prime Minister stated: 
In the election the Government gave a commitment that Medibank would be maintained and improved. 

 Mr Fraser, in his policy speech on 29 November, actually said: 
We will maintain Medibank. 
I stress that the words 'and improved ' are an addition since the actual promises to the electors were made in the manner of a Stalinist re-writing history. The Government has amended in a significant way the undertaking which it in fact gave. The importance of those 2 added words and improved' is that this Government claims that the changes it is making to Medibank represent an improvement. Some time before that statement at the National Press Club  Mr Fraser  had been properly taken to task by the  Australian Financial Review  in its editorial of 12 May. After making some preliminary comments about the fact that the Government had promised to maintain Medibank during the election campaign, the editorial in the  Australian Financial Review  stated: 
After the campaign ...  Mr Fraser  was asked specifically if his undertaking to maintain Medibank was limited to certain groups in the community. 
He replied: 
These are his own words- 
I think there is a commitment under Medibank to the total community.' . . . 'The commitment to maintain Medibank is not just a verbal use of the term Medibank. I think the concept of Medibank was endorsed. ' 
That was a remarkably accurate and honest assessment of reality. The whole concept of Medibank was endorsed by the electors. All that this Government is maintaining, in contradiction of the assurance given by the Prime Minister even after the general election, is the use of the term 'Medibank'. The name remains but the concept has been abolished. I suppose this is not surprising when coming from a Government which promised to maintain wage indexation and that there would be no more jobs for the boys but which has since appointed a former Country Party member of Parliament as Administrator of the Northern Territory and has appointed the leading propagandist of the National Country Party to the Board of Qantas. This was done by a Government that said that it did not need - 
I am speaking to the nonlevy Medibank Bills which are before the Senate. The point I was making,  Mr President,  was simply that the failure of the Government to honour the undertakings given to the electors before the general election with respect to Medibank is consistent with its entire actions since it has come to power. It is just one of a whole series of broken promises, not the least of which was the statement of the Prime Minister in his policy speech on 29 November that we do not need a tourist as a Prime Minister. That statement was made by a man who as Prime Minister next week or the week after will embark upon overseas trip number five for this year. 
On the major statement on this issue made by the Minister for Health on 20 May, the Government's case appeared to rest almost entirely on the belief stated by the Minister that the imposition of a levy or, alternatively, the payment of an insurance premium would impose some discipline and restrictions upon the use, or particularly, the misuse, of medical services. It was argued by the Minister for Health that when people could see that they actually had to pay for these services the hypochondriacs would cease pestering doctors and doctors, because they wanted to maintain private practice and the fee for service systems, would cease encouraging patients to demand superfluous medical services or superfluous surgery and so on. As my colleague,  Senator Grimes,  has pointed out, it was not uncommon for doctors to do that. 
It was argued by the Minister for Health and has been argued by a number of Government spokesmen since that the fact that people would be paying either a levy or a premium would deter these practices, firstly by the hypochondriacs and secondly by the venal doctors. I suggest that that belief displays quite an extraordinary degree of naivety. It is analagous to suggesting that a drunk will not drive his or her motor car home because he or she knows that if he or she were to have an accident on the way home his or her third party insurance premium would be increased. The Minister for Health has argued and the Government has based most of its case on a naive belief that the hypochondriacs will stop pestering doctors because they believe that if they pester the doctors more the health insurance premium that they are paying will rise microscopically. The point is, of course, that the magnitude of the effect upon the premium paid by an individual will not be noticeable by that individual, whether he uses medical services unncessarily every day or whether he does not use medical services at all. 
Moreover, apart from the Government's incredible naivety, its actions in making the provisions it has in this legislation are inconsistent with its own stated belief. If the Government really believes that there is a strong and direct association between the misuse or unnecessary use of medical services and the charge for those services, why then has the Government decided arbitrarily to impose a $135 ceiling on hospital only or intermediate cover remembering that the purpose of that ceiling is to enable people who want to be treated by what is euphemistically called 'their own doctor' in hospital to do so? Of course, the real purpose is to make it easier for doctors in private practice to practise on their patients inside hospitals. The doctors are being considered, not the patients. 
Overlooking that, on the point of logic, if the Government really believes that people ought to pay the actual cost of their services and that if they were paying the actual cost of their services there would be no more unnecessary use of medical services, why does the Government not make people pay the full cost of that hospital only insurance? Why has it chosen to impose an arbitrary limit of $135 on that cost? Of course, it will be subsidised because the Government knows that it is going to cost more than that. I suggest that the reason that the Government has done this is that the Government wants as many people as possible to take out that hospital only insurance because that is what suits the doctors who are committed to private practice. If the Government really believes that there should be some direct and identifiable charge to the patient for medical services, why then has the Government permitted the private funds to pay up to the full 100 per cent of the scheduled fee for medical consultations? Does the Government believe its own propaganda and, indeed, the propaganda that it used when this subject was being discussed when I first came into the Senate just over two years ago that if people had to hand over a doller every time they went to the doctor the hypochondriacs would stop going to doctors because they did not like handing out the dollars? If so, why does it allow the private funds to pay the full 100 per cent of the scheduled fee? Apparently no honourable senator on the Government side can understand why the Government has done that. 
One of the Government's most vocal spokesmen, who had a couple of articles published in the  Australian  newspaper, I think last week, displayed a similar, or even more outrageous weakness of logic.  Dr Richardson,  the honourable member for Tangney, asserted that what doctors called 'iatrogenic' illness was caused by Medibank and similar health insurance schemes. It was argued by  Dr Richardson  that every country in the world that had a scheme similar to Medibank was rampant with iatrogenic illness and that this was caused by health insurance and so on. 

 - Dr Richardson, the temporary member for Tangney. He then, with quite heroic disregard for the rules of logic, as evidence of the validity of all his allegations, stated that iatrogenic illness in the United States was at extraordinarily high levels. What he neglected to mention and what totally destroys the argument he tried to put forward is the fact that the United States is held up by the medical profession in this country, the United Kingdom and by those reactionary sections of the medical profession anywhere in the world where a national health scheme operates as a perfect model of the practice of medicine incorporating the system of free enterprise. It is precisely for that reason that iatrogenic illness in the United States is rampant. It is because the rules of free enterprise apply to the practice of medicine in the United States; because the doctors are marketers of medical services, just like someone marketing automobiles or soap powder. The doctors market medical services and create their own demands for those medical services just as the car manufacturers of Detroit and the denizens of Madison Avenue create demands for any other commodity or service that is sold in the market place of the United States. The ultimate inconsistency and hypocrisy displayed by the Government on this issue rests in the simple fact that the same senators- there are some marginal adjustments but overwhelmingly they are the same- who a little more that 12 months ago twice rejected a Bill to impose a 1.35 per cent levy to finance Medibank will, tonight or tomorrow when the vote is taken, vote to impose a very much higher levy. I challenge any of the honourable senators who sit on the Government benches to explain that particular somersault. 
I am afraid- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bonner)-  Order! The honourable senator will be kind enough to address himself to the Chair. 
Yes, but I will respond to the interjection. I am afraid that, when  Senator Sheil  was speaking, I could not understand what he was talking about. It seemed to me that he was, in fact, opposing the legislation which has been brought in by his own Government. I may have misunderstood him because I am not sure whether it was  Senator Sheil  's incoherence or the fact that I was in the Senate for only half of his speech that gave me the impression that he was opposing the legislation currently before the Senate. I do not know how he will vote on it. Apparently no one on the Government side can explain the gross contradiction and hypocrisy of honourable senators having voted against and vehemently opposed the imposition of a levy slightly more than half of the current levy a little more than 12 months ago and now meekly lining up to follow the instructions of the Liberal Party Leader in the House of Representatives as they always do and as  Senator Withers  has publicly admitted they do. They are meekly lining up like privates in the Army to vote for this legislation. They are contradicting the position they took 12 or 18 months ago. 
The final point I make concerns at aspect that  Senator Sheil  raised while I was in the Senate, that is, freedom of choice. When members of the Liberal Party raise the argument of freedom of choice they usually look back upon the preMedibank system of health insurance as some sort of ideal or model which ought to be followed in respect of freedom of choice. The simple fact about the pre-Medibank health system was that everyone was compelled to pay taxes to support it. In the last few years of its operation the taxpayers paid more than 50 per cent of the total cost. The taxpayers paid most of the money for it. But in order to get refunds from the so-called voluntary funds the taxpayer who had already paid the taxes was compelled to become a subscriber to one of these so-called voluntary funds; otherwise he just paid the taxes and got nothing in return. That situation is held up by the Liberal Party and still seems to be held up by  Senator Sheil  as an ideal, as a model of freedom. Everyone is compelled to pay into the pool but only those who join the so-called voluntary health insurance societies are entitled to get anything out of it. The ultimate hypocrisy is for anyone who belongs to and supports any of the political parties which on the basis of lies told by a Liberal Government conscripted Australian youths to fight in Vietnam to talk about freedom of the individual. That is the epitome of hypocrisy. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security whether she will deny the strong rumours that, if State governments announce a decision not to fund the Australian Assistance Plan in 1977-78, Federal funds will be cut off immediately? Can the Minister give a guarantee that the Federal Government will continue to fund AAP regional councils for the rest of this financial year? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Has the Minister seen the report in the Perth  Sunday Independent  of 26 September that the Government is preparing to reintroduce licences for television sets, that the licence fee for a colour television set will be $90 and that licence forms have already been printed? Is there any truth in the report? If not, can the Minister give an unequivocal assurance that the Government will not reimpose this burden? 
I present the following petition from 32 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the reintroduction by the Government of radio and TV licence fees, abolished by the previous government is an unjust tax which strikes almost everyone, particularly pensioners, regardless of their ability to pay. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, relates to a statement the Minister issued about 4 weeks ago concerning funding for this financial year and the next 2 financial years for projects under the Aged and Disabled Persons Homes Act and the Aged Persons Hostels Act. I ask: Can she give an unequivocal guarantee that the funds, as set out in that statement, will be provided within that period and that the program will not be extended to a fourth year, as previous statements by some Ministers have indicated? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry by saying that in the Budget Speech in August the Treasurer asserted that last year- I use his words- 'the farm sector was in a state of collapse'. Precisely the same words were used by the Prime Minister in his Committee of Economic Development of Australia lecture last month. Does he know that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics released in late July an estimate that net real farm income will fall by 27 per cent this financial year? If, as alleged, the farm sector is collapsing, how will it survive a 27 per cent reduction in net farm income this year? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Unemployment and Industrial Relations. Is he able to provide any information on the Government's response to a proposal put forward by the Koorda Shire Council which was originally directed to the Minister for Social Secuirty- she has since informed me that she has referred it to the responsible Minister- for a Regional Employment Development type scheme for drought affected areas of Western Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. In her answer to a question by  Senator McLaren  yesterday concerning precautions against the entry into Australia of, among other things, foot and mouth disease following the Prime Minister's visit to General Suharto's farm she said: 
I understand that precautions were taken at the time of the visit, that shoes were encased in plastic . . . 
Does she know that a journalist who was there has stated that he was not wearing plastic covers and as far as he knows no other member of the party, including the Prime Minister, was wearing them. 
-Yes, on their feet. Clearly this information directly contradicts her understanding as stated yesterday. Will she reinvestigate the matter to determine whether Australia's livestock industry has been exposed to the unnecessary danger of foot and mouth disease? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the Minister's repeated references to  Senator Cavanagh,  I ask the Leader of the Government whether when he officiated as the celebrant at  Senator Martin's  wedding in Brisbane he travelled at his own expense or charged it to a department? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. It follows questions asked by  Senator McLaren  and me last week regarding possible dangers to Australia's livestock industry following the visit by the Prime Ministerial party to  President  Suharto's farm in Indonesia. Last week  Senator Withers  stated the precautions relevant to the Prime Minister's return, but journalists who had accompanied the Prime Minister returned to Australia by various direct and indirect routes over a period of several days and serious doubts remain as to whether adequate precautions were taken. To clear the matter up I ask whether the Minister will obtain for the Senate details as to the number of Australians who visited the farm and information on when and how these people returned to Australia. Can the Minister guarantee that the clothing of these people was correctly quarantined and fumigated? 

 - Mr Deputy President, I rise to speak on the adjournment debate tonight because I am disturbed by a series of articles which appeared in last Sunday's  National Times.  The subject matter of those articles has aroused considerable comment in Western Australia, both before and after the publication of the articles in the  National Times.  It is apparent that the Government is being hustled, particularly by the Perth land developer Alan Bond, and also by W. D. Scott &amp; Co. and by the Premier of Western Australia, to accept up to 100 000 white immigrants from Rhodesia and, moreover, to accept them under specially privileged conditions. Possibly a foreign debt of $750m will be incurred to facilitate their settlement in Australia.  Mr Bond's  pecuniary interest in this question is easy to identify. He sees would-be Rhodesian immigrants as potential buyers for the abundant supply of land at his Sun City development at Yanchep, in which the commercial buyers of Western Australia have shown considerable disinterest. On the last occasion when the Bond empire was threatened with insolvency it was rescued from the brink by the Government of Western Australia which purchased thousands of acres of grossly over-priced land through the Urban Development Council. That soft option is not available to the Bond Corporation any longer. 
In particular I want to expose some of the spurious and frequently self-contradictory arguments put forward by the proponents of the Rhodesian migration scheme. Sometimes these white Rhodesians are depicted as refugees. At best that description is premature, and at worst it represents a mischievous but possibly selffulfilling prophecy. But even if these people were genuine refugees there can be no justification for granting priority to them over other genuine and established refugees from countries like Thailand, Timor, the Lebanon or, for that matter, Chile.  Mr Bond  demands not only that these people be given special priority as refugees but also that the normal processing time through the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, which is stated to be 8 to 12 weeks, be speeded up to 2 1 days. Of course, he takes it for granted that any would-be white immigrants from Rhodesia would be automatically granted entry to Australia. The  National Times  article quotes  Mr Bond  as saying: 
If the Australian authorities don't act to clear them much more quickly the United States will. They want their skills, believe me. 
If  Mr Bond  's opinion is to be taken as valid, it is completely inaccurate to put forward a humanitarian argument that Australia has to accept these people because no one else in the world will have them. According to  Mr Bond,  not only is the United States willing to take these people; it is eager to do so. Readers of the  National Times  were served up by  Mr Bond,  by W. D. Scott and by  Sir Charles  Court a romantic vision which depicted potential Rhodesian immigrants as rugged frontiersmen and women, and as farmers and miners who possess special skills and enterprise with which they would develop Australia and particularly northern Australia, Queensland and Western Australia.  Sir Charles  Court said: 
Western Australia is the obvious place for Rhodesians, with the States rural and mining economy and its heavy emphasis on development. 
Ironically it is proposed that these rugged frontiersmen should be settled at Yanchep in Western Australia. The Yanchep area, I might add, does have a lion park which perhaps would make Rhodesians feel at home, but being situated as it is within 50 kilometres of the Perth General Post Office it could scarcely be described as a frontier area.  Mr Bond  passes over that contradiction with the fatuous proposition that the people would settle and establish homes in this area but they would work on the mining development in the Pilbara, some 1500 to 2000 kilometres away. The Scott report states that of Rhodesia's 278 000 white residents some 206 000 live in urban areas, that is 75 per cent, an urban concentrated population that is comparable to Australia 's and of course no evidence is presented to qualify or quantify the alleged skills of these potential migrants. Then the Scott report in a glowing passage resurrects a romantic Australian myth pertaining to the development of the north. It says: 
Large areas of Australia, especially the Kimberleys, the Pilbara, the Northern Territory and northern Queensland, lack mainly suitable population for the development of their impressive agricultural and mineral development potential and, additionally, are strategically exposed by the emptiness. 
I would have thought by now that it was fairly obvious that these areas, particularly for their alleged agricultural development, lack not only people but also markets, or at least commercial markets. I would have thought that the history of the Ord River scheme would have demonstrated fairly decisively by now that that scheme lacks both a technically and/or economically viable system of agriculture. Finally, to complete the absurdity, Rhodesian farmers, as I understand it, in the main could be more accurately described as supervisors of cheap black labour than as farmers in the sense that we have come to regard farmers in Australia. 
The suggestion that enclaves of these people, many or most of whom have entrenched racist attitudes, should be established in areas which have substantial Aboriginal populations is particularly obnoxious and will, I trust, be rejected by all responsible Australians. It is pleasing to note that the Government so far, or at least so far as can be gleaned by public statements on the matter by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  has resisted pressure on this issue. I note with satisfaction that the National Times reports  Mr MacKellar  as having said: 
I am strongly opposed to racism. We screen people to avoid accepting those with marked racist tendencies. We don 't want to import this problem. ' 
Again I trust that all responsible Australians will endorse the Minister's comments on that matter. If we do not want to import racist prejudices, then one would think that there would be many areas of the world more satisfactory than Rhodesia for the purpose of recruiting migrants. I am astounded that  Sir Charles  Court should fall upon Rhodesian or would-be Rhodesian immigrants to the degree that he has. I quote him again when he said: 
They should be encouraged to come. They're a wonderful, gutsy people. We can use them. ' 
Are not, or were not, these wonderful gutsy people whom  Sir Charles  eulogises supporters of the illegal Smith regime? 
Are they not, in  Sir Charles  ' terms guilty of treason? Are they not the people who defied the Crown; the people who placed the Governor of Rhodesia, the Queen's representative, under house arrest? Perhaps as  Mr Bond  suggested the United States, which we will all remember was itself born as a nation out of revolution and defiance of the British Crown, would welcome these people. But it is almost unbelievable that a loyalist zealot like  Sir Charles 
Court could eulogise people against whom a  prima facie  case of treason against the Crown exists. Even if  Sir Charles  has lapsed I am supremely confident that other loyalist zealots in the hydra-headed Australian League of Rights will vociferously demand that these potential fomentors of revolution be rigorously excluded from this country. For all the reasons stated, and some others not stated, I trust and hope that the Government will rigorously maintain the policy which has so far been enunciated by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs,  Mr MacKellar. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I call  Senator Coleman. 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I present the following petition from 36 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we believe one of the essential freedoms which contribute to genuine democracy is freedom of access to information. Political censorship threatens this vital freedom. 
We therefore request that the 1976 Boyer lectures be broadcast as their author intends and that the Lateline radio program continue on the sound bases of adequate finance and political freedom. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that your honourable House protect all media information sources from political control. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Will the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs acknowledge the simple fact stated by  Mr Walls  of the Council of Local Government Associations and quoted by  Senator Douglas  McClelland yesterday that aggregate Federal payments to local government will fall from $274m last financial year to $195m this financial year? Will he acknowledge that the matter of who did or did not phase out the Regional Employment Development scheme makes no difference to the fact that total payments will fall from $274m to $ 1 95m? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Has the Government decided to adopt the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission to phase out the nitrogen fertiliser bounty, as the Treasurer indicated in his Budget Speech it would and for the first stage of which the Government has already introduced legislation? If so, does this mean that legislation will be introduced next year to reduce the bounty to $40 per tonne of nitrogen equivalent and $20 per tonne for the year after? 
My colleague  Senator Keeffe  before the suspension of the sitting for dinner made some references to the funding of roads with respect to the Appropriation Bill which we are discussing tonight. Like  Senator Keeffe  I have received numerous complaints from local government authorities, in my case from Western Australia, about road funds in particular and about the availability of funds from both State and Federal governments this year in comparison to previous years. In fact it is quite apparent that the local government authorities of Australia, like the Australian States, are now finally realising that the so-called new federalism is a massive confidence trick to camouflage the reduction of finance by this present Federal Government to State and local governments. 

 Senator Carrick now knows by heart the line: We increased by 75 per cent financial payments to local government'. If it is properly qualified that line that  Senator Carrick  seems finally to have memorised is correct. If it is qualified in terms of direct grants to local government it is true that the payments are 75 per cent higher than they were in previous years. But of course if we look a little beyond that, if we look at payments to local government in total in the previous financial year and in this financial year we find, as  Mr Walls  of the Council of Local Government Associations stated last month, that there has been a decline from $274m to $ 195m.  Senator Carrick  's kneejerk response to that is to go off into a tirade detailing how the decision to phase out or reduce funding for the Regional Employment Development scheme was made by the previous Labor Government and not made by this Government.  Senator Carrick  surely has the intelligence to realise that that is totally irrelevant to the simple fact that total payments to local government have been reduced by the Fraser Government by $80m in actual money terms. If we like to translate that into real terms, into constant value dollars, the reduction in payments to local government has been in excess of $100m and in fact the total payments to local government have been almost cut in half by this present Government. 
A tribute is due to the audacity of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The sort of audacity for which he is famous, the sort of audacity which enabled him to say on 6 March 1975 that he supported the leadership of Bill Snedden and that there was no contest for the leadership and so on and then 16 days later, I think it was, to challenge  Mr Snedden  for the leadership successfully having plotted to do so for several months, the sort of audacity which enabled the present Prime Minister to indulge in that knife work within the Liberal Party - 
I am very sorry,  Mr President.  The audacity for which the Prime Minister is famous was demonstrated once again a few weeks ago when he was addressing the Australian Farmers Federation. This man who engineered a reduction in real terms of $ 100m in Federal payments to local government then castigated some local government authorities for increasing their rates by as much as 20 per cent. 
The people who were the victims, who were forced into this situation by the policies which the present Prime Minister has engineered, were then castigated by that Prime Minister for responding in the only possible way in which they had power to respond. It is analagous of course to the continuing campaign of vilification initiated by members of this Government in 1975, carried out throughout 1976, against the so-called 'dole buldgers'. The people who are unemployed as a deliberate and conscious effect of the policies of this Government are constantly vilified by members of this Government as being dole bludgers so that the Government can divert the latent hostility of the community to it towards the unfortunate people who are unemployed as a direct consequence of the deliberate policies of this Government. 
The Prime Minister applied the same sort of evasion or diversionary tactic against local government in condemning local government for increasing its rates when it had no alternative in the circumstances but to do so. Of course local government authorities are not so naive or gullible that they have swallowed the Prime Minister's line on this issue. Indeed, they  fought  back. I received a letter last week from one local authority in Western Australia. Probably several other senators from Western Australia on both sides of the chamber received a copy ofthe same letter to the Prime Munster in which this local authority attacked the Prime Minister for having the audacity to say that after an increase of funding to local government of 75 per cent local government should hold its rates steady and not increase them. 
This letter set out the figures relating to direct financial grants to this particular authority in 1975-76 and in 1976-77. It showed that in the last financial year, that is 1975-76, this shire received $24,000, $20,000 of which was Federal grant money supplemented by $4,000 from the State. In 1976-77 that shire received $24,282. That amounts to an increase of just over one per cent, not the 75 per cent which the Prime Minister had asserted. This shire has come back very heavily at the Prime Minister for the way in which he misrepresented the facts when speaking to the Australian Farmers Federation. I shall be very interested indeed, and I hope I get the opportunity, to see the Prime Minister's reply to that letter. The reasons for the reduction in funds to local government are various. There has not only been the reduction of funds made available last year under the Regional Employment Development scheme, as  Senator Carrick  seems to think. There have been reductions in real terms, and in fact in absolute terms, in the allocations for road construction. There have been reductions in allocations in the sewerage programs, area improvement programs and so on. 
I wish to deal in particular tonight with road funding and the way in which the fundamental dishonesty of this assertion that there has been a 75 per cent increase in funds to local government has been compounded by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  The  Deputy  Prime Minister in an article in the  Farmers' Weekly  of 16 September, which is published in Western Australiait was not a report, so he cannot claim to have been misrepresented- had the audacity to say: 
An extra $100m has been provided this year for local government use on roads. 
The fact, of course, is that the total amount of money provided from Federal sources for road construction and maintenance this year has decreased very slightly from $442. lm to $441.5m. In real terms the decline is of the order of 12 per cent to 14 per cent. 
I am more interested in the assertion by  Mr Anthony  that $ 100m extra has been provided for local government for use on roads this year.  Mr Anthony  has not responded to the invitation published more than a month ago to clarify his stand on this issue. I suppose he initially allowed that article to be published in the belief based on long experience that you can say almost anything in country newspapers and get away it, that no one challenges the statement you make. This is normal for the country newspapers around Australia. In this instance he was challenged and corrected, and I do not expect that he will come back into the controversy. I assume that this fictional sum of $ 100m which  Mr Anthony  concocted is the aggregate of the amount set out for road funding in the schedules to the 1974 Acts which were presented to the House of Representatives before the  coup d'etat  last November and finally passed in April or March of this year and an additional payment of $65m to compensate for increases in road construction costs since the 1974 Acts were passed. 
This year, that is the 1976-77 financial year, this present Government has forecast its intention to provide $35.8m in addition to the amounts specified in the schedules of the 1974 Acts, notwithstanding the fact that the Bureau of Roads had recommended an increase of some $125m in the amount specified in the 1974 Acts. I note that there is an appropriation of $ 1.288m for the Bureau of Roads in this Bill. One wonders about the justification of that when the Government clearly has so little respect for the recommendations that the Bureau of Roads makes. Whereas the previous Labor Administration provided full compensation of $65m for one year's cost increase, since the 1974 Acts were passed we find that this present Government, for 2 years' cost increase, is providing only $35.8m instead of the $125m that would be necessary to compensate fully for increases in road construction since the Acts were passed and since the Schedules appended to the Bills were printed. So we have this sort of double deception practised by the Deputy Prime Minister - 
I am very sorry,  Mr President.  We have this doubly inaccurate statement by the  Deputy  Prime Minister who first adds together the cost compensatory funds for 2 financial years and asserts that they were paid in the one year, and then asserts that these funds were available for local government. Of course all that money is not available for local government. It it money paid to the States. Part of it is allocated for national highways, part of it is allocated for rural local roads, part of it is allocated for rural arterial roads and part of it is allocated for urban arterial roads. So it would not be made available to local government unless the States chose to do so, and the States did not choose to do so. 
This brings me to the other specific complaint which I wish to relay on behalf of 3 shires in Western Australia which have written directly to me and, I believe, also to a number of other senators a letter with regard to road funding. These shires, which call themselves the Nuigham Group and are in the north-eastern wheat belt of Western Australia, have shown that in 1968 under the statutory grants as they are called now- I am not sure what they were called thenthey received road funds totalling $ 124,000 from the State government, though ultimately much of the money was sourced from Federal grants. In 1976 the same 3 shires received only $161,000. That is an increase of about 30 per cent over an 8-year period when the consumer price index had increased by about 65 per cent or 68 per cent. We cannot be too sure yet about the total increase because this financial year is not finished. So this year there is a reduction in real terms in total road funds for those particular shires of the order of 25 to 30 per cent compared with what they received in 1 968. 
I wish to speak briefly about the estimates for agriculture. Most honourable senators can probably remember the wild, extravagant undertakings that were given by this present Government before the 1975 general election. The Government was not always specific but certainly the general assertions were that the problems which some agricultural industries were experiencing had been caused by the Labor Government and that they would disappear just as soon as the Labor Government was removed and was replaced by a Liberal-National Country Party Government. In the Budget Speech 8 months later, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  asserted, with reference to last year, that the farm sector was in a state of collapse. That phrase has been mindlessly echoed ever since all around the country by the Prime Minister. 
Ironically, just before the Treasurer made that assertion, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics had released its trends publication in which it forecast a 27 per cent fall in real net farm income in this financial year compared with last financial year. This begs the question of course. How can an allegedly collapsing sector survive a 27 per cent fall in real income? I put that question to  Senator Cotton  as the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry in the Senate on 7 October.  Senator Cotton's  reply failed to deal with the question.  Senator Cotton  asserted that this fall in net farm income had been caused by drought. That is partially true; it has been partially caused by drought. But that answer completely evades the central point. The central point is that the Treasurer asserted that the farm sector was in a state of collapse and that this year its income would be reduced by 27 per cent. I repeat that question to all members of the Government and to Government supporters, and I am sorry that  Senator Scott  is not present: How will an allegedly collapsing sector survive a 27 per cent fall in real income? Will they either explain how an allegedly collapsing sector will do that or acknowledge that the assertion made by their Treasurer, mindlessly echoed ever since by their Prime Minister, is utterly without foundation? I observe that there has been no response to that cahallenge. 

 Senator Scott will say that the record low level of real farm income which is expected this year- it is expected to be the all-time low level of farm income since the Second World War- has been caused by the Labor Government- the 3 years of socialist rule, as  Senator Scott  usually puts it. Accepting for the moment  Senator Scott's  stereotyped assertion at its face value, I wonder whether he can explain why farm income in 1 966 value dollars was $786m in 1970-71, which was some 12 per cent lower in real terms than in 1 975-76 and some 1 8 per cent lower in real terms than in 1974-75, the Labor Government being in power for 18 months of that 2-year period. Incidentally, apart from the figure expected this year, the amount of $786m has been the lowest figure recorded since about the mid-1950s or early 1 950s. I am not sure because my figures do not go back that far. I suppose  Senator Scott  would say that that level of farm income, which was the second lowest in the last 20 years, was caused by the 8 years of socialist Labor Government from 1941 to 1949. It would be about as logical and would make about as much sense as the assertion which  Senator Scott  normally makes in this chamber. 
I am talking about net farm income in 1966-67 value terms. The level was $786m in 1970-71. Incidentally, the average for the 3 calendar years, not the financial years, when the Labor Government happened to be in power was $ 1,430m, which was 45 per cent above what it had been for the 3 preceding years when the Liberal-Country Party Government was in power. But I suppose that  Senator Scott  will tell us that incomes were low between 1970 and 1972 inclusive because Labor had been in government 20 years previously. 
Of course it had something to do with wool prices. Did not the low level of farm income in 1974-75 have something to do with the fall in beef prices, a fall, incidentally, which was exacerbated by the mindless expansionary policies which were being advocated  ad nauseam  by the Country Party in 1973? At that time the present  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  was saying: 'There is an urgent need to increase production. I believe the demand for meat will rise so much we will be flat out trying to keep up with it'. The Country Party abused the then Labor Government for not providing extra market incentives to stimulate artificially investment in the beef industry which, if the government ofthe day had been foolish enough to do it, would only have exacerbated the ultimate problem. 
The farm sector of Australia was grossly misled by the pre-election propaganda of the Liberal and Country Parties. A couple of things that they have done since they have become the Government, which they claim have assisted the agricultural sector and which are significant in terms of the amount of money involved, are, firstly, the restoration of the superphosphate bounty- a very expensive measure for which the justification is highly doubtful. Of course, because of the large amount of money involved this has pre-empted in a number of other fields action which could have made more sense in both social and economic terms. The second specific and fairly expensive item is the abolition of the export inspection charge on meat as from 1 March of this year. There is an appropriation of some $22m in this Appropriation Bill for meat inspection services. It was suggested by the Industries Assistance Commission, and it was stated by other people at the time when the meat export levy legislation was being repealed, that under the then and still prevailing marketing conditions- it is an extreme sellers' market- it was highly doubtful whether the benefit would be passed on to the meat producers. The figures that I have obtained on this- they relate to the position a few months ago and there is a fair bit of freedom for interpretation of and speculation about such figures- show no evidence that from the first week in March, which was when the levy was repealed, there had been an increase in prices to beef producers. I am informed that this year there has been a massive increase in the profits recorded by meat exporters, the people who process and sell the product overseas. There appears to be no evidence that there has been an increase in the prices received by beef producers pursuant to the abolition of that export inspection charge. 
So once again this sum of $22m or $23m probably could have been very much better spent in some other way- at least while the present marketing conditions prevail, while we are operating in an extreme sellers' market and when any subsidy on exports, which is what a free export inspection service really means, is likely to be shared between the foreign buyer, the Australian exporter and the livestock producer. It would appear that in this case the livestock producer is getting the smallest of those 3 shares. Despite all the allegations that Labor had done nothing for agriculture and the assertions that the position of agriculture would change dramatically once the natural rulers of this country were back in their proper place, we find in fact that there is a net payment of $25m to revenue in the estimates for this year from the agricultural sector. That payment arises because the Australian Wool Corporation is expected to repay $245m of the money advanced to it mainly in the 1974-75 season. So far from pouring a great deal of money into agriculture, this Government will be a net beneficiary from the agricultural sector or, I suppose, if we go far enough back, a net beneficiary of funds provided 2 years ago by the Labor Government to the agricultural sector which will now be returned to the public revenue. 
Of course I am talking about loan funds. If I was not, would I be talking about the repayment of moneys? Of course I am talking about loan funds. It is interesting but characteristically ironic to note that the same people who continually abused the Labor Government for incurring a substantial deficit in 1974-75- it was a smaller deficit than this Government will incur this year- fail to acknowledge that $300m of that deficit was provided as loan funds for the Australian Wool Corporation to enable it to maintain the price of wool during the price slump of 1974-75. These same people who were saying that the Labor Government ought to have been underwriting the market at a higher level were also abusing the Labor Government for providing $300m which effectively increased the deficit by $300m. The present Treasurer in a Press statement released at the end of the previous financial year, that is in July of this year, had the audacity to claim that because of the many economies which had been achieved by the present Government as a result of good housekeeping and the ending of the waste and extravagance of the previous Labor administration, etc., it had saved $11 lm. He asserted at the time that the Government had saved $350m. Included in that figure was $80m from last year's appropriation for further borrowings by the Wool Corporation which was not needed because wool prices improved, plus $31m which had been repaid by the Wool Corporation in the last financial year.  Mr Lynch  had the audacity to claim that that windfall to the Government, $80m of which was no saving at all because it was simply a provision for money which was not spent because it was not needed and $31m which was paid back and which was unexpected, was the result of good housekeeping by the present Government. 
The Government's failure to live up to its election undertakings and its failure to deliver the goods in the agricultural sector are just small components of its overall failure to live up to its pre-election promises. The rate of inflation has been temporarily and slightly reduced in the September quarter. Almost everyone agrees that it will rise to above 5 per cent in the December quarter. In other words, the consumer price index for the second half of the 1976 calendar year, with this Government in power, will increase by more than it did for the second half of the 1975 calendar year. There was a 6.4 per cent increase in the last 6 months of what was effectively a Labor government. It is generally agreed that the increase in the first 6 months of this Government will be in the vicinity of 7 per cent. So the rate of inflation, at least at this stage, in the first half of this financial year, will not be reduced. The number of unemployed has been signifiantly increased, to the degree that the Government now finds it necessary to fiddle with the statistics to camouflage the fact that the number has significantly increased. It has now, in seasonally adjusted terms, hit a level which has not been recorded since the 1930s. So the Government is looking for another scapegoat. As it is unable effectively to blame the previous Government any more for the failures of its own economic policies, it seems that the scapegoat will be the unions. 
We see constant references in the Press to the burning desire of some Ministers, particularly the Prime Minister, incited as usual in these matters by a number of senior members of the National Country Party to have a showdown with the unions to try to provoke a national strike or a series of strikes if he possibly can. Instead of the Government being blamed for the failure of its economic policies, some members of the Government hope that unions will be blamed for it. I suggest to those members of the Government who have a genuine interest in this vexed question that they read an article published by the National Times last week, written by their colleague the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  who displays a far more rational attitude on these matters than one has come to expect from his Party or its coalition partner. 
We have appeals from the Prime Minister and others for everyone, but particularly for the labour movement to make personal sacrifices for the greater national good, for the greater good of society and so on. Once again I suppose this is just another demonstration of the audacity ofthe present Prime Minister, a man who engineered a plan to seize power under what the Liberal senators ' own colleague  Senator Hall  described aptly as sleazy circumstances. This man who engineered a plan to seize power under sleazy circumstances and who expounded the proposition that whatever could be grabbed should be taken now has the audacity to say to the industrial wing of the labour movement that it ought to make sacrifices for the national good and that it ought to exercise restraint. 
Life is not meant to be easy. That call for restraint would have somewhat more credibility if its current apostle had exercised a little more restraint 12 and 18 months ago. Since he failed to do so he and those who stood with him on that exercise are totally without moral credibility. 
Since my colleague  Senator Mulvihill  reminded me about the statement that life is not meant to be easy, I wish to relate that statement to the matters on which I first started to speak. I refer to the way in which the present Government has reduced total funding to local government in real terms by some $100m. The prime Minister seems determined to prove to local government that life for local government is not meant to be easy. He is trying to make it easy for himself by passing the blame on to someone else and by utilising the same sort of blatant buckpassing which he has done to the States and which he has attempted to do to the labour movement. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) How may Australian military personnel were killed, or died as a result of military actions, in Vietnam after 1 May 1965. 
How many of these personnel were conscripted under the National Service Act. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What was the average level of borrowings by the Australian Wool Corporation to finance its stockholding during 1975-76. 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. It is related to a question that I first asked him on 4 June about a claim by  Sir Charles  Court, published in the Perth  Daily News  on 2 June, that  Sir Charles  had received an assurance from the Prime Minister that Western Australia would be free to determine the proportion of funds to be distributed on the population area basis. I refer to clause 6 (2) of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill which is now before the House of Representatives. It states: 
A State shall- 
allocate not less than 30 per centum of the amount to which it is entitled under section5 in respect of a year amongst local governing bodies in the State on a population basis . . . 
Bearing in mind that that contradicts the Premier's previous statement that the Western Australian Government would be free to determine the proportion for itself, will the Minister now tell the Senate whether the Prime Minister misled  Sir Charles  Court with a false assurance, whether  Sir Charles  attempted to mislead the people of Western Australia by falsely stating that he had received an assurance or whether the Government has now repudiated, in clause 6 (2), an assurance it had previously given to the State? 
 I would like to ask a question concerning division 509- the Australian National Galleryfor which the appropriation is substantially in excess of the expenditure last year. From the explanatory notes it appears that one of the major reasons for this is the intention to add considerably to the art collection which is acquired in the name of the National Gallery. As is revealed by answers to questions on notice in the House of Representatives, a substantial number of these acquisitions by the National Gallery have been lent to Government House in the last 12 or 18 months. 
In answer to a question on notice on 23 March by  Mr Morris,  the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  released a list of the paintings, sculptures, tapestries and ceramics that had been lent by the National Gallery to Government House since 29 April 1975. The period was less than 1 1 months. Six ceramics, 2 sculptures, 2 tapestries and 2 1 paintings had been lent by the National Gallery to Government House. In answer to a further question on notice, which appeared in  Hansard  on 27 April of this year, the dates on which these works were acquired were given by the Prime Minister. An examination of the 2 answers reveals that of the 2 1 paintings lent to Government House between 29 April 1 975 and 23 March 1976 no fewer than eight were acquired by the National Gallery after 29 April 1975, and fourteen were purchased after January 1975. So it is apparent that a very considerable number of the purchases by the National Gallery are going to Government House either directly after they are purchased or after a very short time. The question which I would like to explore is this: How many of the purchases envisaged for this year, is it expected by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  will be transported to Government House either immediately or after a very short space of time? * 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Has the Prime Minister written to the Premier of Western Australia, in response to the Premier's proposal that the State should have sovereignty over offshore areas, informing the Premier that the Government has had regard to the advice received from its law officers that the Commonwealth could not legally accede to the State's request on this matter? If so, does this mean that the present Government unequivocally endorses the legal judgment of the former Labor Government? Will the Minister guarantee that the Government will continue to resist  Sir Charles  Court's repeated incitements to go outside the law? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has a  prima facie  case of dumping of what are known as pie-pack apples from New Zealand been established? If so, will the Government take prompt action and invoke anti-dumping regulations before the Australian market is swamped, with disastrous consequences for Australian producers? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Is it possible for, say, a United States company with an overseas subsidiary to remit funds from the subsidiary to the United States prior to a devaluation of currency in the host country of the subsidiary, to transfer the funds back to the host country after devaluation and to secure a windfall capital gain proportionate to the devaluation? 
Before moving on to the main substance of this legislation I feel impelled to correct just a few of the gross distortions of fact which were presented by  Senator Scott  in his contribution to this debate this afternoon. In his customary sanctimonious style,  Senator Scott  waffled on about centralist' and 'centralism' which of course are fog words which defy precise definition. I wonder whether  Senator Scott  regards the proposed levy on all milk produced for manufacturing purposes in Australia, which was recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission in its recent report, as a means of underpinning what is known as orderly marketing in the dairy industry. I wonder whether  Senator Scott  regards a levy like that, which constitutes gross interference in the market, as a manifestation of centralism in operation. If  Senator Scott  regards it as such, I eagerly anticipate his opposition to any legislation which may arise therefrom. 
I wonder whether he regards the existing effective excise in the form of a hen levy, which is imposed for the same purpose on egg production, as another manifestation of centralism. If so, I would like to know why not, and if he regards it as centralism I would like to know why he has not opposed it. But more importantly, on questions of fact, he had the audacity to assert that taxation under the Whitlam Government had increased by 300 per cent. He did not define what type of taxation he was talking about, but it really does not make much difference. In fact total taxation collections in the financial year 1975-76 were $16.8 billion. For  Senator Scott's  alleged 300 per cent increase to be correct, that would have had to be $4.2 billion in 1972-73. In the short space of time I have not been able to find the figures to show precisely what the collections were, but they were something like double that figure. So he was in error by a factor of two. Incidentally, if he has such an interest in the level of total tax collections I draw to his attention the simple fact that total tax collection as estimated in this year's Budget- his Treasurer's Budgetwill be $19.9 billion, which is an increase of 18 per cent on the figure for 1975-76. 
The grossest distortion of fact of all which  Senator Scott  had the audacity to present was the figures that he quoted for expenditure on roads pursuant to the Roads Act of 1 974. That is an old National Country Party trick. It has been tried by his colleagues in this House and by his colleagues outside this House. I think that the figures he quoted were correct, but he neglected to mention that the classifications had changed. The 2 most important changes in the classification were, firstly, that many roads previously classified as rural arterial roads were reclassified in the 1 974 legislation as national highways and were funded separately. Secondly, class 3 or class 4 roads- I am not sure which it is- which had previously been classified as rural local roads were reclassified as rural arterial roads. Because of those 2 very important changes of definition which  Senator Scott  conveniently neglected to mention it is possible to quote figures which purport to show that expenditure on rural local and rural arterial roads were reduced when the reality is that expenditure was not reduced. 
Even if that were the case, only the Country Party would have the effrontery to talk about reducing expenditure on roads. The Bureau of Transport Economics recommended that an extra $120m be added to the amounts specified in the schedules to the 1974 legislation to compensate for cost increases since that legislation was passed. The previous year, when the Labor Government was in power, the Bureau of Transport Economics had recommended a $64m increase in the amounts stated in the schedule to the Bill. That legislation was introduced by the Labor Government in November and it was eventually passed some time later this year at the full $64m. This Government which  Senator Scott  supports did not accept the recommendation of the Bureau of Transport Economics and it has appropriated or has signalled its intention to appropriate a measly $35m to compensate for cost increases over 2 full years- just over 25 per cent of what the Bureau of Transport Economics said was necessary. 
The misrepresentation was compounded even further by the Minister for Transport- his National Country Party colleague-  Mr Nixon,  who has announced so many times that I have lost count of them, that this extra money, this $100m as he called it, will be provided for road construction this year for local government. There are 2 misrepresentations in that claim. The first one is that the alleged $100m represents the figure for 1975-76 which was $64m, plus the figure for 1976-77, which is $35m. The second misrepresentation is that that $35m- not $ 100m- which the Government has appropriated or has signalled its intention to appropriate for this year is not destined for local councils. It is destined for State governments and it will be distributed to State governments, road building authorities and so on. So there are 2 gross distortions. I repeat that only the National Country Party could have the effrontery, given its record in government with respect to road funding over the last 6 months, to condemn and to suggest that road funding under the previous Labor administration was less than adequate. If that were true then it is something even less adequate now. 
I turn now to the legislation itself. This new federalism which the present Government featured so prominently before its election campaign commenced and during its election campaign has now been revealed and is recognised by every State government in Australia with the exception of my own State of Western AustraliaI will say a bit more about that later- as a confidence trick. It has also been recognised by many people associated with local government as a confidence trick. Later I will read into the record a letter from one such local government association. This is not a new deal for the States. It is a fraudulent and sanctimonious smokescreen behind which the Fraser Government seeks to renege upon its responsibilities. The more perceptive people in the Labor Party and in the Liberal and National Country Parties always recognised this. For example,  Senator Rae,  writing in his column in the  Australian  on 13 February 1976 said with respect to the new federalism and the proposed tax-sharing arrangements: 
It is inevitable that unless there is through the system a tremendous improvement in tax-gathering efficiency- 
This does not appear to have been claimed - then someone is going to suffer if someone else obtains an advantage. 
That is really a fairly self-evident statement. One would have thought that some other honourable senators in this place besides  Senator Rae  might have recognised the self-evident truth of that statement.  Senator Rae  continued: 
It is significant that in an interview after the Premiers Conference  Sir Eric  Willis of New South Wales expressed his enthusiasm, saying that he would like to see his State obtaining a greater percentage of the total taxes raised within it. 
Then  Senator Rae  went on to make the equally obvious point that, if New South Wales were to receive a bigger slice from any given level of tax collections, some other State would be likely to receive a smaller slice.  Senator Rae  feared, with very good reason, that the State he represents would be one of those States to receive a smaller slice. At about the same time- in fact, the day before, 12 February- the following was reported in the  A  Australian  Financial Review. 
Queensland's Treasurer and  Deputy  Premier,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, yesterday accused the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  and the New South Wales Premier,  Sir Eric  Willis, of plotting against the smaller States. 
So it goes on. Back in September 1975- more than a year ago- the honourable member for Lilley,  Mr Kevin  Cairns, who is a Liberal member of the House of Representatives, said in relation to the then proposed new federalism policy: 
In the Liberal Party at present economic decision making is centralised in Victoria, with a little bit left over for Sydney. 
Those more perceptive people in the Liberal Party always saw the reality behind the so-called new federalism. Many others, of course, were misled by the extravagant assurances and undertakings given by the responsible Minister in this House,  Senator Carrick. 
The most dramatic of all of  Senator Carrick  's irresponsible and exaggerated claims for the new federalism was that which he made on 27 April of this year when replying to a question asked by me. It should be borne in mind that he had stated the previous day that the total payments to the States under the new federalism would increase in the following 3 years by more than the amount by which they had increased during the 3 years of" the Labor Government. I asked  Senator Carrick: 
Does the Minister assert that the federalism policy means a more generous financial deal for the States than under the previous Labor Government? Secondly, given the fact that total Federal payments to the States increased by more than 38 per cent in constant value dollars in the period 1972 to 197S, can he guarantee that the total payments to the States in the next 3 years will increase, also in constant value dollars, by more than 58 per cent? 
In reply  Senator Carrick  said: 
In response to  Senator Walsh,  my answer is an unqualified yes. 
I sought further clarification the next day by way of a further question in which I quoted what  Senator Carrick  had said the day before. I asked him: 
I ask for the purpose of clarification whether his unequivocal yes applies to both sections of the question I asked, bearing in mind that the second section sought a guarantee from him that total payments to the States - 
That is, specific purpose and general purpose payments to the States- in the next 3 years would increase by more than they did in the 3 years of Labor Government, that is, by 58 per cent, in constant values. 

 Senator Carrick replied: 
I repeat what I said yesterday: 
He did not repeat what he had said the day before, of course. He went on to waffle about what had been happening at the Premiers Conference. He has been waffling about it and dodging the issue ever since. He dodged it again on 26 August this year. Well he might do so, of course, because he gave to the Senate a grossly misleading assurance. If he knew anything about the subject at all- presumably he knows something about it- he ought to have known that the Government was in no position to honour it. 
Let us examine how the Government's performance so far measures up to  Senator Carrick  's extravagant claims. To do so, let us look at the Budget Papers. In Budget Paper No. 1 , under the heading Federal Payments to or for the States and State Government Loan Council Programs- 1975-76 and 1976-77, we find that total payments to the States increased by 8.6 per cent, which is considerably less than the increase in the consumer price index, which is less again incidentally than the increase in the cost of public services. Following the example set by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch), Senator Carrick  has attempted to fiddle with that figure of 8.6 per cent by saying that you should not count some things and that you should count others; that you should count as a grant to the States this year money that was paid to the States for Medibank last year, which is a sum of some $209m.  Senator Carrick  says that that figure should be counted as a grant to the States for this year instead of last year. By that sort of juggling he comes up with a figures of 14 per cent which is roughly comparable to the increase in the consumer price index. So by the most favourable interpretation, even after the figures have been juggled and the books have been cooked, we find that in real terms there has been no increase in the payments to the States this year. I make this comment in passing: If  Senator Carrick  believes that it is proper to transfer to this year's payments the sum of $209m which was paid to the States for Medibank at the end of June, I ask him why the Treasurer also did not include that figure in this year's Federal expenditure figures in the summary of the Budget instead of putting it in the expenditure figures for last year and thus falsify last year's deficit as well as this year's deficit. 
Does the Minister representing the Treasurer know that the share market plummeted to a new low yesterday- even lower than after last week's announcement of a credit squeeze? Is this, and the forecast given by  Mr Rod  Carnegie to the Government members economic committee on Tuesday that there will be 600 000 unemployed next year, a manifestation of the business confidence which the Treasurer and possibly the Prime Minister believe exists? 
We are debating cognately 2 Bills-the Air Navigation (Charges) Amendment Bill, which the Australian Labor Party is not opposing, and the Airports (Surface Traffic) Amendment Bill, which we are opposing. The first Bill is the more important. It carries forward policy initiated by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, carried on by the Labor Government and now carried on by the present Government. Its most important provision is to increase the air navigation charges by 15 per cent. There are a couple of minor, subsidiary and consequential matters relating to the 10 per cent interest to be charged on accounts overdue for more than 45 days and some revision of the basis of charging for the use of facilities at international airports. From  Senator Sim's  remarks I gained the impression that the first Bill was concerned only with charges for providing navigation services, whereas the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  makes it clear that the Bill relates to aerodromes, airway facilities, meteorological and search and rescue services. As I said, this is a policy, which was initiated by the Government before last, of gradually increasing these charges until 80 per cent of the costs incurred by the Commonwealth Government is recovered. The attitude of the Australian Labor Party has been consistent in Government and in Opposition, which is certainly a great deal more than can be said for the Liberal and National Country Parties.  Senator Sim  claims to have been consistent on this matter. I will return to that in a moment. For his party and for the party with which his Party is in coalition, no claim of consistency can be made. For example, in the policy statement presented before the last election the then joint Opposition Parties said: 
Because of the serious and detrimental effect the 80 per cent recovery policy is having on aviation, a Liberal National 
Country Party Government will immediately halt the program until proper studies and comparisons of cost recovery with other forms of transport are made. 

 Senator Sim has made it quite clear, of course, that no such studies, of cost recovery and so on have been made. Let us go back a little further and look at what was said by the shadow Minister for Transport in the then Opposition.  Mr Nixon  is a man who knows a good deal about aircraft, especially a particular section of the aircraft industry. He used to be very free in chartering aircraft and sending the bill to the Government. I am not too sure yet who paid the bill.  Mr Nixon,  with his deep knowledge of the aircraft industry, in opposing the Air Navigation Bill 1 974 introduced by the Labor Government, said, as recorded at page 3869 of  Hansard  of 21 November 1974: 
It is quite paradoxical that the Government should, when it is talking about tackling the problems of inflation, so increase charges for those services it provides to general aviation which must then pass on the charges at another point. Of course, the higher cost to general aviation has to be passed on to the consumer. 
That was what  Mr Nixon  said when he was in Opposition. When  Mr Nixon  is in Government he brings in a Bill which is designed to have precisely the same effect as the legislation which when in Opposition he opposed and described as absurd. He said that at a time when the Government was concerned about inflation it was absurd to bring in a Bill to increase Government charges. Of course that is typical of the dual standard which we have come to expect from the Liberal and National Country Parties. They have the glorious irresponsibility of Opposition when they promise everything to all people. When faced with the responsibilities of Government they enact the very policies they condemned when in Opposition. 
A question for legitimate political debateSenator Sim raised this matter- is the extent, if any, to which governments ought to subsidise the provision of air services or any other transport service. I do not think  Senator Sim  mentioned that, on the estimates provided in the second reading speech, a subsidy of some $70m will still be paid this year from Consolidated Revenue to provide the infrastructure for civil aviation in Australia. Some people may argue that the subsidy is too high; some people may argue that it is too low. I find it more than a little surprising and more than a little incongruous that  Senator Sim  and  Mr Nixon  in 1974 put forward the proposition that the appropriate way to compensate people for the disadvantages of living in the remote parts of Australia was to subsidise civil aviation or alternatively to subsidise postal or telephone services. I thought the philosophy of this Government was that the private citizen should be granted the maximum discretion in the disposal of his income, with a minimum of arbitrary interference by big government. Yet it seems to me that what  Senator Sim  is advocating, what  Mr Nixon  has advocated and what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  frequently advocates is that big government should step in and subsidise a particular service instead of providing the individual - 
-I will return to that in a minute,  Senator Sim. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! I ask  Senator Walsh  to address his remarks to the Chair and not to worry about interjections. 

 -Yes, Mr Deputy President. The appropriate response, one would think, for a government which really believed that individuals should be granted the maximum discretion in the disposal of their own income, instead of arbitrary intervention by big government deciding what should be sold at prices lower than market price and what should be sold at prices higher than market price, ought to be to provide some sort  of per capita  living allowance to people living in remote areas. But this Government, despite its stated philosophies, suggests at various times that commodity A ought to be subsidised or commodity B ought to be subsidised, and it rationalises this on the ground that living in these areas imposes penalities on individuals and therefore the appropriate way to compensate them is to subsidise something. 
This contradiction of the Prime Minister's stated philosophy is carried to its extreme by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  who says that it is absolutely essential to subsidise the price of petrol in remote regions. If he thinks that has so much merit, I suggest that he reimpose inheritance taxes. He will then have plenty of money to do this. Whatever merit that proposition may have, I make the point, in passing, that cheap petrol in Mount Isa will make absolutely no difference to the age pensioner living in Mount Isa who does not own a motor car. A pensioner living in Mount Isa receives the same pension as a pensioner living anywhere else, but he might have to pay up to 40 per cent more for his groceries. I am not sure whether that figure of 40 per cent is true for Mount Isa, but I know that it is true for Broome in Western Australia. So, spokesmen for the Liberal and National Country Parties contradict their own words of a few years back. They also contradict their own philosophy. 
I really cannot let  Senator Sim's  puerile grandstanding pass without some comment. He seemed to be trying to establish that he had a very hairy chest and was willing to stand up and vote against or oppose in this Senate anything that his Party proposed if he thought it was unwise, and so on. If that is really true, I wonder why he has voted against his Party so infrequently and never on an issue that was of any importance. He tried to assert that we in the Labor Party are quite different. I will agree that we are quite different. There has never been any secret about that. Back in the last century a pledge was introduced into the Australian Labor Party which all candidates were required to sign. We hear a lot about this from spokesmen on the other side of the chamber when they think they can get some political mileage out of mentioning it. In signing that pledge we are required to vote on any issue before the Parliament according to the majority decision of a properly constituted Caucus meeting. There is no secret about that. It has been published thousands of times and it has stood for half a century. What some members of the Liberal and National Country Parties try to do is to assert that the Senate is a States House, an independent House of review, where their vote is governed not by the dictates of their Party but by the welfare of their States and the dictates of their own conscience. When we look at their record - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Walsh  has the call. 
I am accustomed to the screeching of galahs,  Mr Deputy President.  I do not really need protection. On 17 July 1974, in a letter published in the  Australian,  their Leader said that every member of the Liberal Party was bound to vote in accordance with the decisions of the entire parliamentary party. 

 - Senator Withers, your Leader. 
If  Senator Jessop  wants to disagree publicly with his Leader and say that his Leader had rubbish published in the  Australian  then for once I am very happy to endorse  Senator Jessop  's assessment. We in the Labor Party have never made any secret of this: In the 
Senate we vote in accordance with Caucus decisions. We do not mindlessly mouth the fiction that this is a States' House or an independent House of review. I wish that the members of the Liberal and National Country Parties would make up their minds where they stand on this issue, just as I wish they could make up their minds where they stand on the issue of progressively increasing air navigation charges until they reach 80 per cent of cost. Of course, occasionally we have some grandstanding from Government senators- from our opponents. To attract some parochial, political kudos or some sort of notoriety they cross the floor. On what issues do they cross over? They crossed over on the pensioners ' funeral benefits, a trivial issue. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! Will the honourable senator come back to the Bill with which we are dealing? 
-Very well,  Mr Deputy President,  but I was answering the points raised by  Senator Sim.  I note that none of those honourable senators voted against conscription- an issue of conscience like that. 
That does not surprise me either. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! The honourable senator will come back to the Bill. 
I apologise. Before concluding I want to make one more point with respect to aviation. It is relevant to this Bill because it affects airline revenue and it has an effect on the airlines' capacity to pay charges. In Boeing 727 aircraft the fare differential between economy and first class passengers operates in such a way that economy class passengers subsidise first class travel. I am not blaming the Government for this because this policy has existed for very many years. I am not sure how long it has existed. The fare differential represents a discount of 20 per cent for economy class passengers. So in a 727 aircraft with 6 seats per row, for every $100 of revenue per row collected in the first class section $ 120 is collected in the economy class section. Moreover, first class passengers are entitled to perks to which economy class passengers are not entitled. I think that is a gross inequitable arrangement, one that is indefensible and one that ought to be amended at the earliest possible opportunity. Surely there is no justifiable reason for economy class passengers, who presumably are people on lower incomes or at least people paying their own fares which many first class passengers do not do, effectively to contribute more to airline revenue than first class passengers, who are either travelling at the expense of their employers or are people presumably with very much higher incomes. It is a highly regressive and indefensible situation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Will sales by petroleum refineries of hydrocarbon feedstock for the production of ammonia and other nitrogenous fertilizer be counted for Australian crude oil entitlements as from 1 January 1977. 
What is the estimated value of that concession per tonne of (a) anhydrous ammonia, and (b) urea, produced from the feedstock. 
Is there any mechanism to ensure that the benefit will be passed on to Austraiian users of nitrogenous fertilizer. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What degree of hospital and medical cover is provided by standard Medibank for patients in non-private Western Australian country hospitals which do not have salaried hospital doctors. 
A year ago the Liberal and National Country Parties succeeded in regaining the government of Australia. The rationale behind that seizure of power under unprecedented and highly suspect circumstances was the alleged economic incompetence of the Labor Government. In particular, reference was made to unemployment, inflation, the lower level of capital investment, overseas borrowing, the level of the deficit and interest rates. When we look back a year later at all of those indices of economic performance, what do we find? Unemployment is higher than it was a year ago. It is going up whereas a year ago it was coming down. The rate of inflation was down in the September quarter to 2.2 per cent. Everyone agrees that inflation will be about 5 per cent or perhaps even higher in the December quarter. The rate of inflation for the calendar year 1976 will be 14 per cent, the same as it was for the calendar year 1975. For the second half of 1976, it will be higher than it was in the second half of 1975. Now, of course, with this latest about-face on a crucial aspect of economic policy we can confidently predict that the inflation rate in Australia next year will be at least 15 per cent. I note that one informed commentator in the Australian Financial Review was predicting an inflation rate of 20 per cent. 
I turn to deal with capital investment. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  as recently as a fortnight ago was claiming 'a measure of success for the Government's investment policies'. Three days after, the Australian Bureau of Statistics publication on fixed private capital investment, reference 57, published on 23 November 1976 was issued. What did it say? It showed that the total fixed private capital investments for the September quarter of 1976 in real terms was 8 per cent lower than it had been in 1975.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I seek leave to incorporate this table in the  Hansard  record. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Is the table quite capable of being incorporated in  Hansard? 
-It is a standard ABS publication. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="070232197611306_25_0.jpg"></graphic>

In relation to overseas borrowings, it was grossly irresponsible and highly dangerous a little more than a year ago to contemplate borrowing as much as $2 billion overseas. In fact, this year in its attempt to maintain the exchange rate of the Australian dollar, an attempt largely induced by the record of the Liberal-National Country Party governments and the statements of a number of their Ministers to which I will return later, the Government in a totally futile exercise actually borrowed $1 billion. It will now cost $170m to pay back that $1 billion. The deficit which was alleged to be absolutely disastrous last year is for the first 4 months of this financial year $250m higher than it was in 1975. That is the case even without the adjustment which really ought to be made because of the Treasurer's fiddling with the books and putting Medibank prepayments into the 1975-76 financial year when they rightly belonged to the 1976-77 financial year. If the true level of the deficit were adjusted for that piece of accounting chicanery, the level of the deficit in the first 4 months of this financial year would be $450m higher than it was last year. 
Finally, interest rates are going up. Now, after all these things and after this inferior performance in all those areas, on the one very crucial area of policy on which this Government had constantly asserted its intention to maintain a firm line, it has now completely repudiated its policy and all its statements of the last 12 months. The statement which the Treasurer has put out must be the most puerile document ever presented to an Australian Parliament. It is riddled with obfuscation, with self-contradiction, with a blatant denial of responsibility from someone who so ruthlessly sought power and responsibility, with factual error and technical incompetence. He cannot forever run away from the responsibility which he so ruthlessly sought and obtained in becoming Treasurer of this country. 
I will go through some of the more outrageous and erroneous assertions in the Treasurer's statement. He said that the farm sector last year was in a state of collapse. Apparently he still has not learned not to say that. The making of the allegation that the farm sector last financial year was in a state of collapse is hardly likely to be beneficial to this Government because prior to the devaluation the Bureau of Agricultural Economics had forecast a decline in real net farm income of 36 per cent this financial year, which begs the question: How can a sector in a state of collapse sustain an income decline of that magnitude and still survive? Now, of course, the Government has devalued. There will be some minimal gains to the agricultural sector arising from that devaluation. I will return to that later. But I noted in this morning's  Australian Financial Review  a report that the BAE still forecasts a 2 1 per cent fall in the money income in the farm sector this year- in real terms that is likely to be something like 27 or 28 per cent- notwithstanding the devaluation. We then found the Treasurer boasting about the economic progress which allegedly has been made under this Government. He said: 
. under the policies that have been pursued by this Government significant progress has been made in reducing the rate of inflation and in setting the economy on a path towards sustainable growth in output and activity. 
Highly questionable though that statement undeniably is, if it is accepted as being even remotely accurate why has this Government repudiated the policies upon which its alleged success was based? On 22 November, before the Queensland Branch of the Economic Society of Australia, the Treasurer asserted: 
First and foremost we have seen and still see the need to get inflation down. 
He continued: 
It follows, therefore, that inflation has to be brought down before a return to full economic prosperity can be achieved. 
If that was the Treasurer's belief why, 5 days later, did he embrace a policy which nobody denies will increase the rate of inflation? If the Treasurer believed that statement and if he had any integrity he would have submitted his resignation. 
In the Treasurer's grand boast in the early part of his statement today he claimed that devaluation was forced on the Government by the deterioration in the underlying situation which occurred during the period of office of the previous Government. I would like to make 2 comments on that. Firstly, just when are the Treasurer and the Government going to accept responsibility for economic management? When are they going to cease blaming previous governments for their own incompetence? More pertinently, as  Senator Cavanagh  mentioned in a question that he asked about an hour ago, only 2 or 3 weeks ago the same Treasurer as the one who now asserts that there has been a decline in our ability to borrow abroad was then boasting about our Al credit rating and our capacity to borrow abroad. 
The Treasurer went on to talk about the situation at the time the Labor Government came into office. He would rather talk about what happened four or five years ago than the mess into which his policies and the policies of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have got the economy. The Treasurer said that Australia's international reserves then stood at an all time record of $4.6 billion. I should have thought that it would have been advisable for the Liberal and Country Parties to forget the fact that at that time our overseas reserves stood at $4.6 billion. They stood at that level because the Liberal and Country Party Government in 1 97 1 deliberately maintained an undervalued Australian dollar. As a result of that, in calendar year 1972 nearly $2 billion- most of it hot, liquid money- poured into the country. The money supply exploded in the last quarter of 1972 at an annual rate of 34 per cent. According to this Friedmanite Treasurer, the increases in the money supply are directly linked with the rate of inflation with about a 12 months or 18 months time lag. So I would not have expected the Liberal Party to consider that the level of reserves at December 1972 was anything to boast about. Indeed, when one proceeds further into his statement one sees that the Treasurer himself has forecast future attempts to stop the runaway accumulation of overseas reserves and the inflation which is likely to flow from it. 
The Treasurer then claimed that during the period in office of the Labor Government- 3 years- our overseas reserves fell by no less than $1.6 billion. If that is thought to be reprehensible, how does he escape from the simple fact, which is once again apparent from his own statement, that in 12 months under this Government the overseas reserves have fallen by $1 billion. If a measure of a government's performance is to be the degree to which it accumulated or reduced overseas reserves, a fall of $1 billion in one year must surely be far more reprehensible than a fall of $ 1 .6 billion in 3 years. 
The Treasurer asserted in many places throughout his statement that the Government knew in January that the Australian dollar was over-valued. If the Government really knew that in January, why did the Treasurer put out a statement on 4 January in which he said: 
I therefore state on behalf of the Government, and with the full approval and endorsement of both the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, that there is no need or reason for the Australian dollar to be devalued and that devaluation is not part of the Government's economic strategy. 
That statement was made by the Treasurer on 4 January. He now says that at the beginning of the New Year he and the Government knew that the dollar would have to be devalued. 
The Treasurer then proceeded to castigate the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who, to quote from the Treasurer's statement, predicted during the last election campaign that a Liberal-National Country Party Government would devalue the dollar if confirmed in office at the election'. Does the Treasurer want to endorse, substantiate or establish the honourable member for Oxley 's record as an economic prophet? That is precisely what this Government has done, as the honourable member for Oxley accurately predicted more than 12 months ago. 
Why is it reprehensible for the honourable member for Oxley to have been absolutely correct about the sort of policy which this Government would follow? The Treasurer then proceeded to castigate the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  for saying on 19 February that the costs of production in Australia are out of line with overseas costs at the present exchange rate, and so on. 
The Treasurer had the audacity to claim that as a result of such statements by those 2 leading Australian Labor Party spokesmen on the economy the Government had been forced into devaluation. He neglected to mention that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  said before the New South Wales Chamber of Manufactures that the then rundown in reserves 'is due to the fact that our traditional deficit on current account isn't being offset by capital inflow'. Putting the devaluation kite 1000 feet high, the  Deputy  Prime Minister continued: 
So when you put these things together I can't see any reason for complacency about the balance of payments. 
That was said by the  Deputy  Prime Minister on 13 September. Yet the Treasurer has had the audacity to castigate spokesmen for the Labor Party for pointing out in some earlier period precisely those same underlying difficulties and for accurately predicting this Government's weak response to those difficulties. The Treasurer said that those comments were grossly irresponsible and that, having been headlined in all of Australia's major newspapers, they led directly to a weakening of Australia's reserves position. I do not know why he thinks that that is reprehensible, anyway, because if one reads three or four pages of the Treasurer's selfcontradictory statement one is led to believe that devaluation will prove to be a boon to Australia and that through devaluation lies the path to economic recovery. If one accepts that argument, which I do not, the Treasurer ought to be commending the Labor Party spokesman whom he alleges helped to bring this about. 
Perhaps the most audacious comment of all was the Treasurer's reference to profiteers making a killing at the expense of the nation because certain people had been prophesying devaluation. Does he believe that we all have forgotten the story written by Kenneth Davidson and published in the Melbourne  Age  on 9 November, which reported from a Cabinet leak the factsince absolutely confirmed, of course- that the Prime Minister and most of his Ministers were soft on devaluation? That story was not leaked by a member of the Australian Labor Party; it was leaked by one of the 12 Cabinet Ministers -or in this case 1 1 Cabinet Ministers- in this Government who were present. The Treasurer now has the audacity to talk about investigations into Cabinet leaks and alleged scandals arising from previous devaluations, when this very month someone in the Cabinet leaked the details of the Cabinet discussion on this very sensitive question and leaked the fact that the Prime Minister and most of his Ministers were soft on devaluation. Who did leak it? Was it the Prime Minister himself? Was it  Mr Sinclair?  Was it  Mr Nixon?  Was it the Treasurer? If it is so reprehensible that sensitive information such as this should be leaked, the Prime Minister should be ordering an inquiry or a royal commission to establish who among the 1 1 Cabinet Ministers who were present at the meeting leaked that sensitive information. 
Perhaps the most puerile misrepresentation of all was the attempt to thrust the blame for the Government's current irresponsibility back on to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In referring to the recent decision of the Commission to increase wages by 2.2 per cent in accordance with the rise in the consumer price index in the September quarter the Treasurer said: 
That was contrary to the whole thrust of the Government's attempts to restore Australia 's competitive position. 
According to the Treasurer, that made it quite impossible for the Government to hold the line any longer. In the Budget, which this same Treasurer brought down on 18 August and which presumably was prepared some time before, it was forecast on page 1 17 of Budget Paper No. 1 that there would be a 12 per cent increase in average earnings in this financial year as against last financial year. If utter disaster follows the awarding by the Arbitration Commission of a 2.2 per cent increase in one quarter, it is logically inescapable that utter disaster must follow a 12 per cent wage increase in a year. This Government believed at least in July that earnings would increase by 12 per cent- at least that is what its own Budget Papers say. So we are left with 2 choices: Either the Government knowingly inserted a false statement in the Budget Papers- this statement was included in the section which forecast taxation collections and the Government might have thought that it had a vested interest in artificially inflating the figure- or it is now attempting to put on to the Arbitration Commission the blame for something which it knew would happen and which it forecast several months before, at a time when it was still claiming that it could hold the line on the exchange rate. That is one of the most puerile deceptions which anyone has ever attempted to put over in an Australian parliament. 
I turn now to borrowings. The Treasurer said that the Government was not prepared to let profiteers take this country to the cleaners with respect to currency speculation. The Government already has done that. The Government borrowed $ 1 billion overseas this year in a futile attempt to maintain the exchange rate or to make it seem as though it was attempting to maintain the exchange rate. At least one Minister in the present Government leaked the details of the Cabinet discussion on 5 November. As a result of that leak, how much money has been withdrawn from Australia by international companies which are holding liquid funds in Australia? The Esso company, for one, took money back to the United States. How many other companies took money back to the United States as a direct result of that leak? How much has been taken back? Will the Government attempt to establish how much has been taken back? Of course all those companies which withdrew funds from Australia to their base countries during that 3-week period can now repatriate them to Australia and pick up a  IVA  per cent capital gain in the process. Because of its own negligence or worse, the Government not only has allowed the country to be taken to the cleaners but also will reward the people who took it there. 
On page 12 of his statement the Treasurer got around to acknowledging that the consequences of devaluation were not all positive and pleasant. He acknowledged that devaluation would have some effect on inflation. He said: 
In particular, the price of imported goods will be higher, in terms of Australian dollars. But imports account for only around 16 per cent of the gross domestic product and, further to that, the prices of all imported products would not be expected to rise by the extent of the devaluation. 
Then he skipped off the subject. There yet again he displayed his technical incompetence. It is not just the price of imports which will be affected. Wherever Australian exports are sold in a competitive market- what I mean by 'a competitive market' is one where the domestic price is determined by export parity as it normally is for most types of meat, for example; and in other sections of this speech there is mention of a significant appreciation in export prices for commodities such as meat- domestic prices will rise with export prices and that will feed directly back into the consumer price index. If anyone doubts the importance of that potential contribution to the consumer price index, I suggest that he look at what happened in 1973 and 1974 when in the 12 months ended March 1974 no less than 25 per cent of the total increase in the consumer price index was attributed to increased meat prices. 
On page 1 5 the Treasurer goes on to assert that the annual rate of rural exports- I presume that is interchangeable with agricultural exports since it makes sense only in that context- which is running at $4.5 billion, should be increased by at least $700m. Implicit in that statement is the belief that the prices of agricultural exports in terms of Australian dollars will increase by about 16 per cent. That is highly unlikely to happen. For some particular commodities, depending on the particular state of demand and the elasticity of demand, prices received might increase by 16 per cent, but that certainly will not happen across the board. It is quite obvious from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics predictions published in the  Australian Financial Review  this morning that the BAE does not expect an across the board increase of 16 per cent in agricultural export prices. 
The Government, or the National Country Party in particular, probably has successfully conned the more simplistic members of the farming community into believing that there are massive gains for the agricultural sector in the devaluation. In fact the gains will be very patchy and regressive. It is most unlikely that there will be appreciable gains for the sectors of agriculture which are depressed already. Relatively well-off wheat and wool producers may receive price increases of somewhere between 10 per cent and 15 per cent, but the depressed fruit growing sectors, the depressed dairy industry and the depressed beef producers are highly unlikely to receive price increases in excess of 10 per cent and in some of those cases the increases could be less than 5 per cent. I ought to add, perhaps, that wheat farmers who are badly affected by drought and who therefore have no crop this year will receive absolutely nothing. All farmers, but most particularly those who are in the hardpressed sectors, will become victims of the consequential credit squeeze which will flow on from this irresponsible decision and from the increase in interest rates. Farmers in the depressed sectors in particular will become victims of that squeeze. All farmers, and indeed everyone else in the community, will become victims of the consequential inflation which this irresponsible move will undoubtedly generate. 

 Senator Messner referred to the article by  Dr Norman  in today's  Age.  I said yesterday that there would not be an academic economist in Australia who would support the Government on this issue. I was wrong. I will not be at all surprised if  Dr Norman  receives some sort of sinecure from this Government in the next 12 months as a reward for being the only academic economist in the country who has supported the action. In his apologia for this move  Dr Norman  made the facile assumption that prices would only increase by 2 per cent on one crucial condition; that is, if wage earners did not attempt to get wage increases to offset the higher prices which would be caused directly by the devaluation. What sort of expectation is that? Can anyone, whether he happens to hold an academic post at a university or not, expect to be taken seriously as a commentator on this subject when he comes out with that sort of puerile rubbish? Of course if wage earners and profit takers and everyone else would voluntarily reduce their demands and reduce their incomes inflation could be cured, with or without a devaluation or in spite of a devaluation. Of course inflation would be cured if everyone voluntarily reduced the price charged for everything he sells, whether it be commodities or labour. What effect that might have on the level of employment is another matter, but of course inflation could be cured if everyone could be persuaded to do that. 
In conclusion, there is perhaps one ray of hope which can be gleaned from the statement by the Treasurer and the policy which it ushers in. It has cast the die for the demise of the Fraser Government. Of course, it is well known by now that this Treasurer will not survive as Treasurer for very long. He will become a scapegoat; he will become the newest sacrifice for the continuing failure of this Government's economic policy. But the real villain is not the Treasurer. The real villain is the Prime Minister, whose ignorance in this area is matched only by the ferocity of his ideological prejudices, and that combination of ignorance and prejudice is directly responsible for the savage deterioration in the economic situation in Australia in the last 2 years, a deterioration which will accelerate even further in the next calendar year. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: In the last 3 months prior to 28 November, how many contracts were written by the Australian Wheat Board in Australian dollars and for what quantity of wheat were they written? How much money has the Australian Wool Corporation received from sales of wool from its stockpile in that same period? What will be the estimated losses incurred by Australian wheat and wool producers because the Australian Wheat Board and the Australian Wool Corporation accepted in good faith the worthless assurances of the Treasurer and the Prime Minister that the dollar would not be devalued? 

 - Senator Martin has obviously become enmeshed in the intricate web of fantasy spun by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch). Senator Martin  seems to believe that all that is required is some incentive from government for major developmental projects to get off the ground. Apparently it has not occurred to  Senator Martin  that before any project can really get off the ground there has to be a market for the product. Apparently  Senator Martin  has not heard about the recession that has gripped the western world for the last 3 years. Apparently she has not read today's newspapers either. The  Australian Financial Review  states: 
No high hopes on Japanese coal, iron imports. 
That is after the partial repeal of the coal export levy and after the devaluation. The  Australian Financial Review  went on: 
The portents are that there will be little or no growth in Japanese demand for Australian iron ore and coking coal in the coming quarterly period and that not until well into the future will new iron ore projects in Western Australia have even a chance of getting off the ground. 
In case it has not occurred to  Senator Martin,  the Japanese demand for coal is intricately linked to the Japanese capacity to make and sell steel and to buy iron ore; and what is true of iron ore is substantially true of coal. The article continued: 
The Japanese are now talking of making cuts in their raw material import program. . . . 
That is what the  Australian Financial Review  stated. Plucked from today's issue of the  Australian  we find these headlines: 
Robe doubt on currency gain. 
Gloomy outlook for zinc miner. 
That was a report from EZ Industries Ltd. There is a quantitative ceiling on demand for most mineral products at the moment, and it does not make any difference how many bribes this Government offers. While there is no demand for a commodity the commodity will not be produced and there will be no investment-led boom. 
I am not at all surprised that  Senator Martin  welcomes this measure and supports it.  Senator Martin  also supported the theory of the investment-led recovery which was being peddled by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer at the beginning of this year. 
She supported the theory of rising business confidence and rising consumer confidence which has been peddled by the government throughout the year. She supported the theory, the fantasy, of the Treasurer that consumer sales were shooting upwards. I suggest that  Senator Martin  look at the Australian Bureau of Statistics figures for consumer sales in September. They record that in fact consumer sales went down in real terms, as they did in August.  Senator Martin  supported the theory that the disastrous investment allowance, which will cost the revenue $600m in this financial year alone, would likewise lead to an economic recovery.  Senator Martin  has supported all the inept economic measures of this Government, which it continues to introduce while the country continues to slide deeper and deeper into recession. 
She is much less accurate. 
What is popular is often at variance with what is true,  Senator Baume.  The existing tax, which this Bill seeks to reduce and ultimately to phase out, certainly is not perfect. Many valid points were made by more intelligent spokesmen for the Government Parties than  Senator Martin,  particularly by  Dr Edwards  in the House of Representatives on 2 1 October, as to what is wrong in purely economic terms with the tax as it has been applied in the past. In  Dr Edwards  ' own words:  the basic objection to the duty that I have mentioned, namely that it is 'inefficient'. I use that word in the technical economic sense. It works against the economic maxim that we should encourage those activities that we can do best. 

 Dr Edwards continued: 
The industry is not uniformly profitable. That is a major objection to the duty, as it falls haphazardly on the profitable, the barely profitable and the unprofitable mines alike. Its incidence is most uneven and unjust. 
Unjust, I suppose, carries connotations of value judgments, but nevertheless the basic point which  Dr Edwards  made is correct: A duty of this type, applied as a flat rate on output or production, can in fact lead to the closure of projects which in economic terms are efficient and viable. 
Our criticism of the Government in relation to this measure is not based on the fact that it has contemplated a change in this tax but that it has offered absolutely no replacement. The Government has completely opted out of its responsibility to the Australian people, the responsibility with which it is now charged to ensure that the Australian public receives a fair financial reward from the depletion and the exploitation of our assets. This tax was introduced last year, and certainly it was not perfect. It was introduced because of the windfall gains which had accrued to companies mining Australia's accessible high quality coal reserves. The windfall gains were of this magnitude: In January 1974 the price was around $US18 a ton. In June 1975 that price had risen to almost SUS50 a ton, a price increase of some 270 per cent in a period of less than 18 months. Of course, it was felt by the government of the day, and felt quite justifiably, that some of the windfall gain which otherwise would have accrued overwhelmingly to the mining companies, which were exploiting our prime coal assets, should be taxed away. Any government with a greater sense of responsibiluty to the people it purports to represent and less beholden to the interests of mining companies would agree with that judgment. 
It has been suggested by some, and it might seem superficially attractive, that the windfall gains on these prime coal deposits, or on any other mineral bonanza, ought to accrue to the States in which they are located. There are purely technical objections to that which are identical to the argument  Dr Edwards  used against the flat rate export levy. It is impossible to devise any form of taxing away super profits, any form of profit-related tax, which can be satisfactorily levied by a State government. It is true that State governments can levy graduated royalties, as is done in Broken Hill, but that system is vulnerable to precisely the same criticism that  Dr Edwards  has made against the coal export levy. Only a government which has the power to levy a profit related tax as a form of company income tax can satisfactorily ensure that the windfall gains accrue substantially to the Australian people without at the same time imposing distortions on company decisions of the type which would lead to a less efficient allocation or resources. That is what this Government ought to do. But, of course, in this matter as in most other matters it has abdicated its responsibility or caved in to pressure from a Country Party that is financially beholden to foreign mining companies. 
Most of the high quality, easily won coal is in Queensland.  Senator Martin  appears to believe that we ought to be grateful to the corporations which are currently mining this coal and which in the future will mine some more of it. It is interesting to note that about 20 per cent of Queensland's known reserves are suitable for open cut mining but that 80 per cent of Queensland's current coal output comes from open cut mines. Of course, the open cut mines are those which have the lowest cost of production. So the most prime of our prime coal deposits are being disproportionately mined at this time. That may be a wholly justifiable policy provided that the Australian nation is receiving a financial reward commensurate with the rapid depletion of its prime coal reserves. That could be arranged if this Government would accept its responsibility. Of course, the Government will not accept its responsibility. 

 Senator Martin accused the Australian Labor Party of being paranoid about multi-national corporations. I am not paranoid about multinational corporations, but it just happens to be a fact of life that if Australian companies reap excessive profits from their operations in Australia ultimately more of those gains accrue to the Australian Government and the Australian people than would be the case if the excessive profits were made by companies which are owned abroad. Let us look at just 2 companies- 2 closely related companies- which are operating in this field in Queensland, namely, the Utah Development Corporation, which is 89 per cent owned by Utah International of the United States of America, and Central Queensland Coal Associates, 85 per cent of which is owned by Utah Development and 15 per cent by Mitsui. On last year's output the value of this coal export tax remission to those 2 companies alone will be in the vicinity of $20m. Moreover, when this measure is compounded with the windfall gains which will accrue as a result of the Government's grossly irresponsible decision to devalue the Australian dollar by 17V2 per cent, the gains to those 2 companies are magnified many times. 
If one takes into account the 15 million tonnes of coal that they exported last year and the maximum potential increase in price for that coal of $10 per tonne one finds that they will be gaining from devaluation a windfall of $150m in addition to the $20m that they will gain when this Bill becomes an Act. Of course, it is an oversimplification of the position to say that these 2 companies will receive the full potential $10 per tonne increase in the price of coal because it is conceivable that some of their contracts will be re-negotiated. Since the Japanese in the past have been leniently disposed towards renegotiating contracts with Australian suppliers when unforeseen circumstances disadvantage the suppliers, it is not unreasonable to expect some adjustments to be made when unforeseen circumstances advantage the suppliers. So the actual gains accruing to Utah Development and Central Queensland Coal Associates will be somewhat less than $150m. But there can be absolutely no doubt that they will be very substantial. 
This BUI, which was obnoxious at the dme it was introduced in September, has become far more obnoxious because of the decision taken subsequently by the Government on devaluation.  Dr Edwards,  whom I have already mentioned as being one of the better informed- in fact one of the very few informed- supporters of the Government in this area, in discussing this BUI on 21 October, stated with respect to devaluation and the alleged discrepancy between Australia's internal cost levels and the cost levels of our competitors and the exchange rate: 
The facile conclusion that some draw in the current situation from these sorts of facts is that we should devalue the Australian dollar. I stress that that is not and cannot be on while the current economic instability in the Australian economy persists. 
I have no doubt that  Dr Edwards  wil be able to quote those words to the Prime Minister and the Treasurer within a very short time if he feels disposed to do so. 
If the Government believes that moves such as this remission or phasing out of the coal export tax Will induce an export-cum-investment led recovery from the deepening recession which it can now no longer deny exists, the exacerbation of which is the direct result of its inept policies, then it is sadly misguided. Its belief in this matter Will be as fallacious as its previous beliefs that the very fact of the election of a Liberal-Country Party government would lead us out of economic recession, the belief that we were going to have an investment-led recovery, spurred on by the useless and scandalously costly investment allowances, the belief that consumer recovery was under way and the fantasy after fantasy which have been produced by the Treasurer and the Prime Minister and which, without exception, have been contradicted by the subsequent revelation of the facts. 
The Government wil fail to achieve the objectives which  Senator Martin  so blithely asserted that it would achieve for 2 reasons. Firstly, while the recession in the economies of our trading partners persists, there is a quantitative or quasiquantitative ceiling on demand. The preconditions for an export-led boom and perhaps an export-led recovery from the economic recession are buoyant and growing demand among our customers, and that Will not occur until economic recovery has occurred with some four or five major overseas customers. The second reason why a measure such as this, even if it did succeed in substantially stimulating the level of investment in coal mining or any other form of mining, Will fail, is that this type of mining is highly capital-intensive. It has a very limited demand for labour. If many new projects did get off the ground the demand for labour in the short term- in the construction period- would be somewhat higher but it would not be so once they settled down into steady production. Because they are competitive industries and because they are capital-intensive-the cause and the effect are all mixed up there; the capitalintensiveness is a cause of their competitiveness and their economic efficiency- they are not and never Will be substantial employers of labour. This move will fail, as all the Government's economic moves have failed 
In conclusion, I think  Dr Edwards  is again worth quoting. But before quoting him I mention that I have dropped the names of a couple of political parties from this quotation from  Dr Edwards'  speech. With the names deleted,  Dr Edwards  said on 2 1 October: 
The problems of the . . . Government were said to be due to the former . . . Government, due to conditions overseas, due to successive Treasurers or, as a last resort, due to the Treasury. They were never due to the Government itself. I hope that, after reflecting at greater length on their mistakes, honourable members opposite will come to recognise the true situation and to accept their responsibility. 
Of course, when  Dr Edwards  made that statement he was asserting that that was the action of the Australian Labor Party when it was in power. He was saying that the Labor Government blamed the former Government, it blamed the Treasury and it blamed conditions overseas- all of the things which this Government is doing right now. This Government has added one scapegoat to the list. It is the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which granted a wage increase of 2.2 per cent. For a quarter, this was significantly less than the Government itself forecast in its own Budget Papers as the expected rate of increase throughout the entire financial year. So the Government can have its choice about whether in fact the 2.2 per cent increase in wages granted by the Arbitration Commission for the September quarter was more than the Government genuinely expected. If that is the Government's genuine belief, then it has deliberately misled the Parliament and the public with the figure it published in Budget Paper No. 1 on page 117, where it forecast a growth in average earnings of 12 per cent throughout the year. Finally, I repeat  Dr Edwards  ' final phrase: 
I hope that, after reflecting at greater length on their mistakes, honourable members opposite will come to recognise the true situation and to accept their responsibility. 
They have certainly not accepted their responsibility in bringing in a Bill to phase out an admittedly imperfect tax and replacing it with absolutely nothing, in spite of the now intensified need for some taxation measure to ensure that a fair proportion of the wealth of Australia's prime mineral deposit accrues to the people of Australia 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What plans, if any, have been made to reduce the number of passenger train services on the Trans-Continental railway. 
What plans, if any, have been made to reduce the number of goods train services in the Trans-Continental railway. 
Will the reductions, if any, date from 1 February 1977. 
As  Senator Wriedt  has stated, the Australian Labor Party is not opposing the Estate Duty Assessment Amendment Bill. Some other minor alterations are provided for in the Bill but its main purpose is to provide substantial exemption from estate duty on an estate passing to a surviving spouse. My own view is that the Government might well have gone further in that respect by abolishing entirely the duty payable on an estate passing to a surviving spouse. I say that not because I disapprove of inheritance taxes- in fact, quite the contrary is the case- but because in fact the levying of duty on an estate passing between spouses is a tax overwhelmingly upon widows. 
The arguments that have been advanced on this issue by the Women's Electoral Lobby, amongst other organisations, I have found to be sound and convincing. I hope that in the not too distant future the Government will legislate to grant complete exemption of duty on estates passing between spouses. 
The broader question of estate duty in general, in my view, is a very different matter. To argue for the abolition of duty on estates passing between spouses when in most cases the spouses have jointly contributed to the accumulation of the estate is very different from arguing for the abolition of tax on inherited wealth between generations. A great deal of attention has been paid recently by vested interest groups to this matter. A lot of emotive propaganda has been poured out in an attempt to justify the total abolition of inheritance tax. I note with great regret that in the State of Queensland, which politically is the most reactionary State in Australia- and in that circumstance this is not surprising- that campaign has succeeded. 
In support of this spurious campaign a number of false assertions are either made explicitly or implied. The first is that people should not be taxed when they are dead. The simple and undeniable fact is that probate is not paid by the deceased: Probate is paid by the beneficiaries from the deceased's estate. It is a tax on windfall gains. It would indeed be a curious value judgment or combination of value judgments which argued that taxes ought to be levied on income which is earned but that no tax should be levied on income which accrues from windfall gains from ancestors or some other philanthropic benefactor. Yet that case, although not put in those words but put in spurious and deceptive terms, has been argued successfully and accepted in the State of Queensland. The people who argue for the abolition of probate- the entire abolition of inheritance tax- ought to be forced at all times to stipulate what other taxes they would increase to cover the revenue foregone or what government services they would cancel to offset the loss in revenue pursuant to the abolition of probate. 
In 1974-75 the total collection from inheritance taxes at both the State and Federal levels amounted to $248m. 

 -If Senator Wright is suggesting that the New South Wales Government ought to abolish inheritance taxes totally and to increase freight charges for the State railways in New South Wales to an extent sufficient to offset the loss in revenue, which would have amounted to $82m, then that is a legitimate point of view. If that is  Senator Wright's  point of view I hope he states that there ought to be an increase in freight charges sufficient to yield $82m to New South Wales, because that is what it would have cost in 1974-75 to abolish probate. 
Yes, in a different way- in a deceptive and spurious way, in the same way as everyone else who argues for the abolition of inheritance tax. One of the alternatives which would yield approximately the same revenue as probate or inheritance taxes currently yields to both State and Federal governments would be a $100 receiver's licence fee on colour television sets. I wonder whether  Senator Wright  believes that that would be an acceptable substitute for inheritance tax. 
If  Senator Wright  is going to speak on this matter, I shall be very pleased to hear him spell out in precise terms just what taxes he would increase to cover the $250m loss to revenue which would follow the total abolition of inheritance taxes. Incidentally,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  who is a great advocate of making fuel available in all parts of the State for the same price as it is available in Brisbane could pay many times over the freight on all fuels from the bulk depots to the outback areas of Queensland with the revenue losses flowing from his abolition of inheritance taxes. 
It is paradoxical and ironic that so many of the people who argue so vehemently for incentivesthey assert that it is essential to provide incentives to people in society to ensure that they work diligently and efficiently- also argue for the abolition of taxes on windfall gains from inherited wealth. I do not know how the incentive argument fits in with the other arguments unless it is being argued by the proponents of the abolition of inheritance taxes that it would provide an incentive for the unfertilised egg and the spermatozoa to select wealthy parents. That is the only way in which the incentive argument can be validated. When put in those terms, its patent absurdity is pretty clear. 

 Government senators interjecting- 

-I gather that all the galahs on my left who are screeching believe that taxes should be increased sufficiently somewhere else to permit the abolition of the tax on windfall gains that accrue from inherited wealth. Presumably they believe that a $100 licence fee ought to be imposed for colour television receivers, that the Medibank levy should be doubled, or something like that. 

 Sir Charles Court, hard pressed by his Country Party colleagues, stated 2 weeks ago that his Government was looking for a means of abolishing probate duty without losing revenue or without having to increase other taxes or charges. That is an interesting proposition.  Sir Charles  Court is looking for a way to abolish something which now yields $12m without affecting bis revenue or forcing him to increase other taxes or charges. I do not know whether  Sir Charles  believes that he has a midas touch that can turn Pilbara iron ore into gold or whether he intends setting up a press to print counterfeit $50 Australian bank notes, because there is no other way in which the objective which he says he is seeking can be achieved. 
What is really needed in the area of inheritance taxes is partly what the Government is doing- a partial abolition of inheritance tax on estates passing between spouses, which I believe should be extended fully to a total abolition; periodic reviews of the rates which are levied, particularly to keep up with changes in general price levels; and reviews in the case of rural properties, or special provision for time to pay, because it is a fact that probate duties can make it extremely difficult to maintain the liquidity of an operating farm. Those things are needed. Apart from those things, what is needed is not the abolition of inheritance taxes or the massive increase in railway freights, as  Senator Wright  suggests, or something else that would offset the loss to revenue, but a tightening of the net or a closing of the loopholes which at present allow so many very large estates to evade completely the payment of duty. 

 Senator Georges- Bjelke-Petersen has made special arrangements for his own. 
He has made special arrangements for himself and all his other friends. He has abolished probate duty in Queensland. What we do not need in particular are the sorts of loopholes deliberately reinserted into the law of Western Australia by the Court Government shortly after its election. This was a provision which related to a governing director's share in a company. It was some bogus provision designed to evade probate in particular and possibly also income tax. It enabled a person to hold a nominal $2 share in a company. 
In one particularly interesting case I think 25 002 $2 shares were held. One of those shares was, ironically and oddly enough, held by the Premier of Western Australia in his family company. Yet with that $2 share he was able to exercise complete control over the assets and income of that family company and to appropriate, if he chose to do so, the entire assets and income of that company for himself. Yet, because he had only a $2 share, on his death his beneficiaries would pay probate only on something less than one-thousandth of the assessed value of the assets of that company. The amendments to enable that to be done were deliberately re-inserted in the probate laws of Western Australia 2 years ago by the Court Government. I imagine it is purely coincidental that this provision happens to provide precisely for the sort of business arrangement which  Sir Charles  has worked out for his own family company and, no doubt, for many of his friends. I refer now to the statement by  Senator Tehan  with respect to farming property that investment capital was lost- I think this was the way the argument went- if taxes were levied on the windfall gains accruing from inherited wealth. 
No, the honourable senator preferred to use some euphemism. I recognise that the people who sit on my left prefer to use some euphemism to describe what are, in fact, windfall gains. I think he said that investment capital was lost in this way. It is a curious argument to put forward. It reminds me of the arguments I once saw put forward in textbooks inflicted upon students of economic history at the University of Western Australia, written by apologists for the crimes, past and present, of the English dominant classes who were trying to justify the Corn Laws. They said that no responsible government in mid-nineteenth century England could have done other than maintain the Corn Laws because half the nation's capital was tied up in land. The really outrageous propositiongiven that this was written by people who were supposed to be technically competent in this area- was that the capital, the land itself, remained whether the Corn Laws remained or not. The capital was immovable. It could not even be moved out of England. The Corn Laws did not affect the nation's capital; they affected the distribution of wealth in England.  Senator Tehan  seems to be endorsing the same sort of patent rubbish this afternoon. He thinks that somehow or other the nation's real productive wealth will be dissipated if the distribution of wealth within a society is changed. The land itself is not destroyed when taxes are imposed on the transfer of ownership between one generation and another. The land is immovable. 
I do not know whether any honourable senator on the other side will speak on this subject. If one does, I dare say we will hear the customary arguments that honourable senators opposite put forward for the abolition of probate or inheritance taxes. If honourable senators on the other side of the chamber do speak, I particularly appeal to them to provide an ethical rationale for imposing taxes upon income which is earned and for not imposing taxes upon windfall capital gains that may be picked up from an ancestor of some other benefactor. Secondly, if they are to put a case for the reduction or abolition of inheritance taxes I ask them to state precisely what other taxes they would increase or introduce, or. what other government services they would curtail, consequential upon the abolition of inheritance taxes for which they may argue. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. The wool market indicator, assisted by the Australian Wool Corporation purchasing 18 per cent of the offering, increased on Wednesday by approximately 14 per cent over the previous week. If wool costs to the overseas buyer in terms of United States dollars, yen, Deutschmarks or sterling had remained constant, would prices in Australian dollars have increased by 21.9 per cent? Does the difference between 14 per cent and 21.9 per cent represent a devaluationinduced windfall gain to the overseas buyer? 
The speakers' list which was shown to me in relation to discussion on this Bill yesterday I think it still applies- to my very great surprise contains no speakers from Queensland, except my colleague  Senator Keeffe.  I would have thought, given the fact that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty is proportionately more important to the State of Queensland than it is to any other State, and the fact that we have in the Senate such sturdy independents and trenchant States' lighters from Queensland as  Senator 
Martin,  Senator Bonner  and  Senator Wood,  that one of these Liberal Party senators would have stood up in this debate and criticised most severely his own party for bringing in a measure which would disadvantage Queensland proportionately more than any other State. I am extremely surprised that only my colleague  Senator Keeffe  who is on the Labor Party side of the Senate has seen fit to enter the debate whereas all the Liberal Party senators, who preach their own independence, who proclaim their own independence, and assert that this chamber is the States' rights House, cannot be flushed out of their burrows to participate in the debate. 
My second observation is that I think it is fairly clear that this piece of legislation is an anti biggovernment measure of the type one might expect from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who continually asserts his belief that people should be allowed to organise their own lives, that individuals should be able to exercise maximum personal discretion in the way in which they dispose of their own income and with a minimum of arbitrary interference by governments. So it is very clearly an anti biggovernment measure of the type we might expect from the present Prime Minister. It is clearly a product of the same total belief in the free enterprise market economy that impels the Prime Minister to fight tooth and claw against such arbitrary government intervention or interference with sections of the free market, such as tariffs and the payment of a superphosphate bounty, and also compels the Prime Minister to fight tooth and claw against any interference with the principle of tax neutrality- for example, investment allowances which subsidise the substitution of capital for labour or special tax deductions for life assurance which induce a much greater flow of  funds  into life assurance companies than would occur in a free market situation. 
So clearly the Prime Minister, in introducing this Bill which allows the free market forces greater power than they had previously, is being totally consistent with his well-known trenchant opposition to high tariffs, to paying a superphosphate bounty or to manipulating the taxation laws in such a way that the pattern of consumer spending and investment is distorted from what would prevail in the free market situation. 
However, irony and generalised prime ministerial double talk aside, we criticise the government parties not because they have introduced this Bill but because of their long-standing and continuing duplicity on the subject; and I refer particularly to the duplicity of the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  During the 1974 election campaign  Mr Sinclair  on 8 May 1974 said: 
Now that the Labor Government has at least admitted that inflation is an urgent national problem, it seems that one of the first actions it would take if re-elected would be to cancel the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. 

 Mr Sinclair had asserted earlier in that same statement that the Labor Party would do precisely that if re-elected. What I am more interested in at the moment, however, is  Mr Sinclair's  stated belief at that time that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty was a significant antiinflationary tool. If  Mr Sinclair  believed that then, why is  Mr Sinclair  sanctioning the introduction of a Bill which seeks to reduce the amount of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty now that he is a senior Minister in a government which only last Sunday trenchantly proclaimed the belief that inflation was the nation's No. 1 problem and that the control of inflation was the Government's No. 1 priority? Apparently  Mr Sinclair's  economic analysis varies depending on whether he is in government or whether he is in Opposition. 
He then said that if the Liberal-National Country Parties were elected to government in 1974 they would 'ensure that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty continues'. Arising from that Press statement of 8 May was an interchange in the Queensland Press between  Dr Patterson  and  Mr Sinclair. Dr Patterson  replied to  Mr Sinclair's  allegation that the Labor Government, if reelected, would cancel the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. This is reported in the Mackay  Daily Mercury  of 10 May 1974. On 8 April as Minister for Northern Development and as the Minister responsible for sugar matters in the Federal sphere  Dr Patterson  issued a ministerial statement in which he outlined the Cabinet decision to continue with the fertiliser subsidy.  Mr Sinclair's  reply to  Dr Patterson  was printed in the  Daily Mercury  the next day.  Mr Sinclair  had the audacity to say: 
On the statement I made regarding the nitrogenous bounty, it is  Dr Patterson  's credibility which is at stake. 
That is an interesting statement in view of the subsequent claim  Mr Sinclair  made in the House of Representatives on 23 July 1974, after  Dr Patterson  had drawn attention to the highly misleading- to use the euphemistic termstatements which  Mr Sinclair  had issued.  Dr Patterson  had drawn attention to those statements earlier in the House of Representatives on 23 July 1974.  Mr Sinclair  said: 
This afternoon there has been a suggestion that when I was in Mackay I suggested that the Government might have second thoughts about the payment of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. 
What he actually said on 8 May 1974 in his Press statement was this:  the Labor Government if re-elected would immediately cancel the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. 
He used the words 'immediately cancel' in his own Press statement and then 3 months later he says that he suggested that the Government might have second thoughts about the payment of a nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy. It is not  Dr Patterson's  credibility which is or which was at stake in regard to this issue; it is the credibility of the present Minister for Primary Industry, and it has been totally destroyed. Then again during the 1975 election campaign  Mr Sinclair  repeated his previous false assertion that the Labor Party would, if elected, immediately eliminate the bounty and so on. Then he went on to say: 
Our present policy - 
That is, the Liberal-National Country Party coalition- is to maintain the nitrogen bounty at its present level. If  Dr Patterson's  concept is to accept the IAC recommendation he will know that that will mean the phasing out of the nitrogenous bounty over the next 3 years. 
That statement was made on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's radio program  Policy Makers  on 25 November 1975.  Mr Sinclair  said on that occasion that the policy of what is now the coalition Government is to continue with the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty, and he accused  Dr Patterson  of intending to accept the IAC recommendations. We find that that sort of obfuscation and double talk continues right up to 1976. 
In the Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said that the Government had accepted in principle the IAC recommendation to phase out the bounty over 3 years. In other words, that is precisely what  Mr Sinclair  accused  Dr Patterson  of having done and that is precisely what he denied that he would do. That statement apparently was made on the very day- this is reported in the October issue of the  Australian Sugar Journal-  the Minister for Primary Industry told the Queensland sugar growers, who were a bit disturbed about this, of course, that a review of the nitrogenous subsidy would take place in 1977 in the light of the outlook for the various rural industries to decide the future level of assistance. So on the same day as the Treasury said that the Government was accepting in principle the decision to phase out the bounty,  Mr Sinclair  said that the Government had not accepted that decision to phase it out. To the annual conference of the small seed producers held at Naracoorte in South Australia in September  Mr Sinclair  said: 
Don't let anybody say that we have decided to phase out the bounty. 
So we have the Treasurer saying one thing, the Minister who introduced this Bill in the other place,  Mr Howard,  repeating the same statement when he introduced it, and the Minister for Primary Industry running around and telling various farmer organisations that that is not the Government's policy at all. I endeavoured to get some clarification with regard to this issue by directing a question to  Senator Cotton  on 2 November about the Government's future policy. I asked whether the Government really was going to follow the IAC recommendations, the first instalment of which is this Bill now before the Senate, or whether it was going to continue paying the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. On 30 November  Senator Cotton  was good enough to supply me with this reply which he had received from the Treasurer: 
The Government considered the report of the Industries Assistance Commission which recommended that the subsidy of $78.74 per tonne of the nitrogen content of nitrogenous fertilisers be phased out over 3 years. 
The Government agreed in principle that the subsidy should be phased out and introduced legislation to reduce the rate to $60 per tonne from 1 January 1977. As the Minister for Primary Industry announced, a review will take place in 1977 in the light of the outlook for the various rural industries to decide the level of future assistance. 
So it now seems that we are back in the position where the Government has made a statement of what it purports to be its firm policy, but which has now been watered down and modified. It has been subject to all the usual pressures which are brought to bear on this Government, Nobody knows what the Government's policy is. I should be very grateful if the responsible Minister in the Senate could spell out unequivocally and precisely what the policy of this government is for the future on this bounty. 
I refer briefly to what various other Government members said about the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty back in September 1974. On 26 September 1974, the present Minister for Primary Industry, when speaking in the House of Representatives said: 
It is true that if we are having a look at the rising inflationary pressures in Australia production or the lack of it tends to be a material element. I submit that any type of stimulus to production is a way by which inflationary pressures can be countered. 
He went on to talk about various other aspects of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. The honourable member for Wide Bay,  Mr Millar,  when speaking about this bounty 2 years ago said. 
In actual fact, it - 
That is, the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty- is a legitimate fiscal device to support an industry to the ultimate benefit of the community at large. This, of course, produces a bounty for all. 
Obviously  Mr Millar  has changed his mind in the last 2 years because when his Party was in power he offered no objection to his Government commencing the phasing out of this bounty. The honourable member for Darling Downs,  Mr McVeigh,  on the same day in the House of Representatives, said: 
It has been reliably assessed that if the subsidy were abandoned on account of loss of productivity a lesser amount of taxation would be collected than would meet the cost of maintaining the subsidy. 
In other words, at that time, the honourable member for Darling Downs was saying that in fact the Government receives more revenue from paying the subsidy than it costs to pay the subsidy. Either the honourable member for Darling Downs was wrong then and his 'reliably assessed' figures were not very reliable, or he just made them up, or he has changed his mind since. I suggest the reason he has changed his mind since is that he, like so many other people in this present Government, has 2 entirely different and contradictory views- one for when in government and the other for when in Opposition. 
On the question of the subsidy itself, it is possible that the payment of a subsidy can be justified on purely economic grounds under very limited conditions. Those conditions would be those where an industry has been disadvantaged by the existence of the Australian tariff or by the level of protection afforded to other Australian industries- the tariff compensation argument, as it is called- and where the production of the end commodity is responsive to changes in prices for the commodity or for changes in the cost of producing that commodity, and also where the demand for that commodity is price elastic. All of these pre-conditions are, in fact, very rarely encountered, but in the last couple of years they have existed with regard to nitrogenous fertiliser in Australia. Nitrogen was used overwhelmingly for the production of wheat and sugar. Both of these commodities are price responsive. In terms of a cheaper input of a fertiliser such as this probably increases their use and their yield. Both of those commodities could then readily be sold at an attractive price on world markets. The situation has changed somewhat since then. But under that very unusual set of conditions which just happened to coincide in the last couple of years, there was probably a case on purely economic grounds for paying that subsidy on nitrogenous fertiliser. There is always a conflict between the justification which may sometimes exist for paying a subsidy on purely economic grounds- on grounds of resource allocation- and welfare. To summarise: A subsidy perhaps can be justified on purely economic grounds when an industry is booming, when the demand for its product is high and when prices are high and the demand is elastic. Under those conditions, of course, producers are very prosperous. When the. producers are not prosperous- and some people would attempt to justify payments of subsidies on inputs or outputs in those circumstancespayment of an input or output bounty only exacerbates the economic problems, the economic inefficiency which is usually closely related to over-production. Always there is this conflict of interest between justification for paying a bounty on purely economic grounds and an attempt at justification for paying bounty on social welfare grounds. Of course the latter, in any case, is never valid because the distribution of such bounties is highly regressive. It is a very ineffective and inefficient way of distributing welfare payments. 
The  Australian Sugar Journal  of October 1976, to which I referred earlier, drew attention to an interesting contradiction between the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission on the superphosphate bounty and on the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. I might add that this contradition has been subsequently endorsed by this Government since it more or less followed the IAC recommendations in both cases. An article by  Mr Jilek  in the Journal states: 
The third and final area in which the IAC left itself open to severe criticism concerns fertilizers. What happened here is devastatingly simple. In two separate inquiries on two separate fertilizers- both inquiries raising virtually identical economic principles- the IAC drew two totally opposite conclusions. And it presented the government with two diametrically opposed and inconsistent recommendations. In doing this, the IAC placed the government in a delicate situation which has by no means been resolved. 
The article continues: 
In a statement dated 7 October 1976,  Mr John  Wilkins, Managing Director of Consolidated Fertilizers Ltd put the matter as follows: 
The recommendation to phase out the Nitrogen Subsidy over a three (3) year period made in the Nitrogenous Fertilizer Subsidy Report of the IAC, dated 5 September 1975, is inconsistent with the recommendations contained in the draft report on superphosphate, dated July 1976. 
Specifically- 
The tariff compensation argument, which was the main basis on which the recommendation to continue the Phosphate Bounty was based, was rejected in the Nitrogen Subsidy Report. 
Arguments favouring the continuance of the Phosphate Bounty based on increased efficiency of resource use are equally applicable to the Nitrogen Subsidy. 
The acceptance that the main phosphate users have a low cost status, i.e. are economic producers, is also a factor in favour of the continuance of the Nitrogen Subsidy. 

 Mr Jilek very rightly drew attention to the totally contradictory conclusions and recommendations of those 2 IAC reports. He might have mentioned, but did not, that of course those reports were drawn up by 2 different groups of people. So it may or may not have been a genuine, subjective difference of opinion between the 2 different groups of people who drew up the reports. What I am more interested in now is the simple fact that this Government, the same group of people, in 2 separate instances has now taken a totally contradictory position and endorsed 2 totally inconsistent and contradictory recommendations. The Government does not have the excuse that the IAC has- that one group of people did one thing and another group did the contrary. This same group of people in this Government contradicted themselves. In looking for a reason for that, the only one that appears readily to me is the simple fact that about half the members of the present Cabinet are users of superphosphate in quite large quantities, but I do not think they are users of nitrogen. There may be some other explanation but that is the only one that occurs to me. As yet, nobody has mentioned an alternative explanation for this contradiction in the Government's policies. 

 -If Senator Walters wants me to mention the simple fact that the Prime Minister, whose income I could not estimate or even imagine, used to receive and presumably still receives $5,000 a year from the superphosphate subsidy, I am quite happy to do so. Presumably he does not receive so much, or receives nothing at all, from the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. If  Senator Walters  is suggesting that that is the reason why the Government reintroduced the superphosphate subsidy- it is worth $5,000 a year to the Prime Minister- and decided to phase out the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty because that is worth nothing to the Prime Minister, I am happy to have that suggestion broadcast. I am not certain that it is true but  Senator Walters  apparently thinks it might be. 
The final point I wish to raise concerns the pricing of nitrogen fertilisers, irrespective of the payment of a subsidy. I put the following question on notice, No. 1239, about 2 months ago to  Senator Cotton  as the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources: 
1 ) Will sales by petroleum refineries of hydrocarbon feedstock for the production of ammonia and other nitrogenous fertiliser, be counted for Australian crude oil entitlements as from 1 January 1977. 
What is the estimated value of that concession per tonne of (a) anhydrous ammonia, and (b) urea, produced from the feedstock. 
Is there any mechanism to ensure that the benefit will be passed on to Australian users of nitrogenous fertiliser. 
The IAC report on petroleum products pricing drew attention to the fact that as from 1 January next Australian refineries which sold ammonia- I am not sure whether they sell ammonia or the hydrogen gas used to produce ammonia- as a feedstock for fertiliser production would be entitled to count those sales in the assessment for their allocations of what is, by world standards, very cheap Australian crude oil. That was the central fact. Something new was being introduced that effectively provided the oil refineries producing the raw material with a valuable concession in the purchases of crude oil. A week or so ago I received the following answer from  Senator Withers: 
The value of the feedstock concession, as revealed by the Prices Justification Tribunal, in their Report dated 11 October 1976 is $2,236,000. The value of the concession expressed as dollars per tonne of product is not available. 
The answer continued that the Prices Justification Tribunal would be monitoring this issue. That is the point I wish to take up. If all the ammonia sold in this way is used for the production of nitrogen- the answer to the question implies that it is- the consequential gain to Australian oil refineries of $2.36m is equal to, at past consumption levels, $1 1 per tonne of nitrogen or approximately $5 per tonne of urea. 
I should like an assurance from the Government that it will do everything possible to ensure that the benefit of that concession is passed on in the price of nitrogenous fertilisers to the ultimate consumer. There is absolutely no reason why that should not be done. If that were done the downwards adjustment of $ 1 1 per tonne of nitrogen would almost offset the price increase which would flow from the commencement of the phasing out of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. I am not entirely confident that the Prices Justification Tribunal either has the power or the resources, especially now, to ensure that that is done. I expect the Government to monitor the situation independently of the PJT and ensure that the benefit of this concession is passed on, as it should be, to the final consumer of nitrogenous fertilisers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What decisions, if any, have been made to relax the stringent restrictions on the use of two-way radio for communication between private citizens over short to moderate distances. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: Has the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, as reported in last Tuesday's  Australian Financial Review,  forecast a $32 lm increase in gross farm income this year as a result of devaluation? What proportion of that $32 lm is attributed to increases in f.o.b. prices for agricultural exports? Does this proportion equal 21.9 per cent or, as some would say, 2 1 .2 per cent of the previous estimated value in Australian dollars of exports for the remaining 7 months of this financial year, or does it represent something less than 2 1 .9 per cent? Finally, can the correct answers to the questions be reconciled with the Treasurer's claim in his post-devaluation statement last Tuesday that agricultural export receipts would increase by $700m? 
The purpose of this legislation is to revise the levels of grants to the States for road construction and maintenance laid down in the various Acts passed in 1 974. A similar Act was introduced in November 1975 to increase the amounts laid down in the 1974 Act by some $64m, the purpose being to compensate the States and ultimately the local government authorities for increased costs of road construction and maintenance which had occurred in the year following the passage of the legislation. This year there is an additional 12-month increase in costs which on the present Minister's own admission has been running at 20 per cent a year; and that was made before the tearaway inflation which will follow this Government's irresponsible devaluation decision of last weekend. So we have costs increasing, according to the Minister a fortnight ago, by 20 per cent plus the consequences of the Government's devaluation decision. Yet this Government introduces legislation to increase the 1974 funds by only 9 per cent. So it is very clear that this legislation effectively reduces the amount of money in real terms available to the States and to local authorities. Given that undeniable and undenied fact I would expect the self-proclaimed disciples of States' rights who populate the Liberal-Country Party benches in the Senate to vote for this amendment which has been moved by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. The amendment states: 
The Senate is of the opinion that the Bill fails to provide adequate financial assistance to the States for cost escalation in the current year. 
That is a statement of fact. This Bill does fail to provide adequate compensation to the States for cost escalation in the current year and in the previous year. Despite the continual grandstanding and continual allegations of members of the Liberal and National Country Parties who sit across the chamber that they represent their States in this House and that this is a States' House, I do not expect that even one of them will have the courage to come over here and vote with the Opposition for this amendment. 
Two aspects of the fraudulence of this Government are revealed in its attitude to this Bill and its attitude to the previous roads legislation. I refer to the hypocrisy of comments by members and supporters of this Government when the original Acts were passed back in 1974 compared with their comments now. I will cite a few prime examples from that time and now in order to show their attitude. I will refer to their attempts to confuse people, to deliberately foster confusion, over what they are doing. This confusion is designed to conceal the fact that in real terms funds for road works have been substantially reduced. When the original Acts were passed in 1974- those Acts are still currentmany members of the then Opposition, the Liberal and National Country Parties, were vocal in their condemnation of the then Labor Government for allegedly providing insufficient funds. The present Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  stated in the House of Representatives on 1 August 1974: 
The legislation before the House will result in a serious cutback in the funds made available to State and local government authorities for road construction and maintenance . . . 
That was said by the Minister who introduced this Bill which will effectively cut by some 20 per cent this financial year, compared with the last financial year, the funds available for local government authorities. In 1974  Mr Nixon  went on to say: 
The Federal Government will require the States to increase their taxation on motorists over the next 3 years . . . 
That is precisely what this legislation will compel the States to do if the States are to maintain anything like their previous level of road construction and maintenance.  Mr Nixon  continued: 
Further substantial increases will be required if the States are not to cut their road construction programs effectively because the value of funds granted by the Commonwealth is rapidly decreasing. 
Leaving aside the question of whether that was true or not at the time it was said, there is no doubt that such a statement is true today and is directly applicable to this Bill which  Mr Nixon  introduced originally. Then we had the honourable member for Forrest,  Mr Drummond,  a Liberal member, who said:   the overall grants to Western Australia for this financial year are practically the same as for last financial year, and no provision has been made for inflation- that evil force perpetuated by the Australian Government. 
To update that quotation we would have to add perpetuated and exacerbated by the Australian Government' because the evil force of inflation unquestionably has been exacerbated by the irresponsible decision 8 days ago to devalue the dollar by 17W per cent. More importantly,  Mr Drummond  deplored the fact that in money terms no increase had been made in 1974-75 relative to 1973-74. This year, under this Bill, the funds paid to Western Australia in fact will be reduced from the $62m provided in the Hayden Budget of 1975 to $55m-odd, or in round figures $56m, provided under this Government's Budget. Finally, in the Senate,  Senator Withers  on 15 August 1974 said: 
By this legislation the States are being forced into an impossible position with regard to roads, road construction, taxation on road users and the administration of their own works. 
Further on he said: 
We can do nothing to increase the road grants but during the life of this Government we will make certain that the users of the roads in Australia know that they have been led up the garden path. 
Leaving aside the question of whether that allegation was true at the time it was made, there is absolutely no doubt that it is true today. The payments to the States for road construction and maintenance will, in real terms, be reduced by some 20 per cent as a result of the decision taken by this Government. The States will be forced either to increase charges for vehicle licences, drivers' licences and so on in order to maintain their current level of road construction and maintenance activity or to cut back on their preexisting level of spending on road construction and maintenance, or they will be forced to do both. 
The recommendation made by the Bureau of Roads was that some $157m additional to the amounts provided for in the 1974 Acts should be appropriated this year to compensate the States for cost increases since that period. Of course, that estimate was made before the decision to devalue. So if the figure was updated it would be something more than $157m. Notwithstanding that recommendation the Government introduces legislation to pay only $35m to the States, which is about 23 per cent of the amount which the Bureau of Roads has assessed was necessary to maintain the pre-existing level of spending on road construction and maintenance. 
On 9 November last year, which was 2 days before an historic event, the Labor Government introduced into the House of Representatives legislation to increase by $64m payments to the States under the roads legislation. That amount was to cover one year's cost increases. It increased by some 17 per cent the payments provided for in the 1974 legislation. This year, after 2 year's cost increases which will increase at an accelerating rate between now and the end of the financial year, the Government provides only $36m. The present Minister for Transport has attempted to confuse the people and to conceal the facts by a system of multiple accounting. It is the Nixon technique. He makes an announcement one week that the Commonwealth will legislate for $36m for additional road funds and the next week he issues a statement saying that the Commonwealth has allocated $6m for rural arterial roads in New South Wales, but that $6m is the same $6m which has already been announced in his original statement about the additional $36m. So it goes on. He repeats those statements throughout Australia so that, he hopes, everyone is so hoplessly confused that he just does not know what the Government is doing or has done. 
The technique has not been entirely effective. We have heard a great deal about local government from  Senator Jessop  in particular and from other Liberal and National Country Party senators. Local government authorities which know what money they actually received last year and what money they will receive this year have not been fooled. I have received correspondence from the Shire of Kojonup, and what is said in that correspondence is supported by the Shire of Kellerberrin, the Shire of Williams, the Shire of Koorda, the Shire of Muckinbudin and the Shire of Mount Marshall on this very subject. All those shires are rural shires, about which the present Government pretends to be so concerned. They all tell a similar story. I will not quote the correspondence from all of them, but the Shire of Kojonup, which was supported by a couple of other shires, drew attention to the funds that it received in recent years. In its letter dated 19 August 1976 the Shire states: 
In the 1973-74 year - 
That was before the present Acts came into operation-  most councils received road grants as follows: 
. Statutory ( formerly CAR) grant - 
That is, grants under the Commonwealth aid roads agreement- 
Specific, CBS - 
That is, contributor bitumen scheme-  and special maintenance grants. 
Both of those types of grants were paid to the local government authorities from the State government. The letter continues, and this is the important part: 
In 1 974-7S 1 and 2 remained the same and we received a special grant being approximately 8 per cent of the statutory grant. 
In other words, the amount of the statutory grant, which was the main component of the funds received by that shire in 1974-75, increased by 8 per cent relative to 1973-74. The letter continues: 
Then in 1975-76 1 and 2 the same again and the special grant was increased to approximately 1 7 per cent. 
It can be argued correctly that that did not fully compensate that particular shire for the cost increases it would have suffered in that year. Now we come to 1976-77 under the present Liberal-National Country Party Government which purports to be concerned about the financial problems of local government. Under the new federalism policies of the Government we find that in 1976-77 items 1 and 2 mentioned earlier again remained unchanged, and the special grant has been cut back to 9 per cent of the statutory grant, representing a reduction, even in money terms, when compared with what had been provided in the previous year. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I had cited correspondence which I had received from more than half a dozen country shires in Western Australia. That correspondence demonstrated that at best these country shires will receive the same amount in money terms from combined State and Federal government grants this financial year as they received last financial year. One of them will receive approximately 9 per cent less. The present Minister for Transport has been wont to attempt to transfer the blame for the reductions in funds in real terms for local authorities for road construction to the State Government, in particular the Government of New South Wales. Because there is a Labor Government in power in New South Wales, the Minister for Transport says that the States, especially New South Wales, ought to be able to provide more money. Apparently he does not realise that if the States were to raise more money, they would be forced to increase their own taxes and charges. The overwhelming majority of these would be fed straight back to the consumer price index and would boost the rate of inflation, the containment of which this Government asserted, until 8 days ago, was its paramount goal. 
In Western Australia as a result of almost 3 years of State Liberal government and now 12 months of government by this coalition Federal Government, it is impossible to blame any Labor Government, past or present, for the fact that this Government has reduced in real terms the amount of money available to local authorities for road construction. Three of the shires that I cited earlier- the shires of Muckinbudin Koorda and Mount Marshall in the north eastern agricultural areas of Western Australia- some 8 years ago, that is back in 1968, received some 48 per cent more in road grants than was paid by way of vehicle registrations in those shires. In 1976 they will be paying somewhat more in road vehicle registrations than they will receive back from Liberal State and Federal governments by way of total road grants. The total funds for roads received by these 3 country shires, which totalled $ 124,000 in 1968, will increase to only $ 16 1,000 in 1976. So there we have an increase of around 30 per cent over an 8-year period. Given the fact that this Government has failed by a margin of at least 10 per cent to maintain the value of road funds in real terms compared with what they were last year, it is not surprising that that should happen. 
In this instance the Minister seems to be unable to decide, indeed the Government itself seems to be unable to decide, whether it is a centralist government or a federalist government. For example, when this Bill was being debated in the House of Representatives on 18 November, the honourable member for Shortland,  Mr Morris,  said that he would show that the Minister had attempted to stand over the Victorian and New South Wales Transport Ministers earlier this year.  Mr Nixon  interjected: Successfully, too'. So apparently not only does  Mr Nixon  acknowledge that he 'stood over' the Transport Ministers from New South Wales and Victoria but evidently he is proud of the fact that he stood over them. When addressing the local government conference at Narrandera on 18 November, which happens to be the same day as he made that remark I have just mentioned, the Federal Minister,  Mr Nixon,  castigated the States for not increasing their expenditure on roads at a sufficiently fast rate. He said: 
In recent years, for instance, the Commonwealth has contributed 36 per cent of the total funds spent in Australia on roads. Against this both States and Local Governments have contributed 32 per cent each. 
While quoting these sorts of figures at you does not overcome your problem of insufficient finance, it does point to who is contributing what. The Commonwealth over the past six years has increased its financial contribution at a greater rate both in amount and percentage than either the States or Local Government. The Bureau of Roads' advice to me is that the States roads outlay has grown at only 8.7 per cent per annum compared with a 16.4 per cent growth in the total States' budgets outlays during the period 1970-75. 
In the same speech he went on to acknowledge that road construction costs had increased over the last 2 years by more than 20 per cent. That statement was made before devaluation. That 20 per cent for the current financial year will probably be boosted to a rate of 25 per cent. From that it becomes fairly clear what the new federalism is all about. It provides a rationale for transferring responsibility to State governments and local authorities without providing them with the taxation potential or revenue raising capacity to discharge the obligations which have been thrust upon them. 
On the broader question of the desired or optimum level of total road construction expenditure, regardless of which government may be the source of funds, there are certainly grounds for legitimate dispute and debate. It is supremely ironic, although characteristic as I have mentioned before, that when the Liberal and National Country Parties were in opposition they castigated the Labor Party for not providing what they said then were sufficient funds to local government for road construction but which, in real terms, were substantially more than they are willing to provide now they are in government. One would hope that politicians, when they are disputing and arguing this, would maintain some minimal level of consistency, something which the Liberal and National Country Parties have conspicuously failed to do. Although there are legitimate grounds for dispute, in my opinion some road construction projects which I have seen could almost come within  Senator Jessop  's category of frivolous.  Senator Jessop  referred to what he alleged was frivolous expenditure by the previous Labor Government. I am not sure what deductions we were to make from that allegation. It seemed to be put forward as a justification for this Government reducing in real terms the value of grants for road construction and maintenance. The logic is, to say the least, unsound. If, as  Senator Jessop  asserted, there had been frivolous expenditure in past years, unless he was also asserting that road construction expenditure is frivolous, it ought to follow logically, one would think, that by eliminating these alleged areas of 'frivolous' expenditure it ought to have been very much easier for this Government to maintain the real level of funding to the States and local authorities for road construction. 
Whatever the justification in general terms or in the long term may be, whatever the optimum percentage of total government expenditure that ought to be devoted to road funds, it ought surely to be apparent that at this time when there is high and increasing unemployment in the community and when other resources are seriously under-utilised, this is not the time to be cutting back on capital works such as road construction. If a particular level of expenditure on road construction was warranted in a time of full or near full employment it ought to be quite obvious to everyone but the Stone Age economists who dominate this Government that there is a case for at least maintaining in real terms that level of expenditure at a time when unemployment of labour and other resources is high and is rising. That appears to have escaped the attention of the Stone Age economists who dominate this Government. They must stand condemned for that, and indeed the amendment to the motion does condemn them. They must also stand condemned for their duplicity in this as in so many other matters, for their failure to match their brave words and extravagant promises in Opposition with action and performance in government. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it correct, as stated in yesterday's and today's  Australian Financial Review,  that the Reserve Bank has been instructed to exempt the agricultural sector from the higher interest rates induced by devaluation? If so, did the Reserve Bank dissent? Will the trading banks be unlikely to advance funds for agriculture if they are arbitrarily compelled to provide interest subsidies? What plans does the Government have to fill the credit vacuum created by its policies? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer him to a statement by the Minister for Primary Industry in Rockhampton on 4 December in which he said that as a result of the devaluation net farm income would be boosted by $ 1 50m for the remainder of this year. I refer him also to a subsequent statement made by the Minister at that meeting, as well as a statement made by the Prime Minister in his weekly electoral broadcast, to the effect that as a result of devaluation average farm income would increase by some $17 a week to $143 a week. Given the fact that $150m would provide $17 a week for slightly fewer than 170 000 people, is the Government asserting that Australia has only 170 000 farmers? If not, which, if either, of the mutually exclusive statements from the Prime Minister and /or the Minister for Primary Industry is true? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
When will the Minister answer Senate Question No. 432 which was placed on notice on 1 April 1 976. 
The matter which I wish to raise briefly on the first reading of this tax Bill arises from a series of questions asked by  Senator McLaren  and me and a letter from the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  It concerns quarantine precautions applied when persons who visited  President  Suharto's farm with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  returned to Australia. I seek leave to incorporate the relevant documents. 
I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table I have prepared which demonstrates how clause 4 of the Loan (Income Equalisation Deposits) Bill has a regressive effect in paying interest on the enure deposit instead of the aftertax component. 
Does the Minister for Administrative Services know that the inside of the rolls of toilet paper currently in use in Parliament House- I have a roll here- is clearly marked Government of New South Wales'. In response to the Prime Minister's latest exhortation to reduce government expenditure, has the Government taken to pilfering parliamentary toilet paper from the State of New South Wales? If not, what is the explanation? 
-I support the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Bill and the proposed amendments which will be subsequently moved by my colleague,  Senator Gietzelt.  The action which will be taken pursuant to this Bill is outlined in the schedule attached to it. I think the Bill actually states that the agreements under it must be made substantially in accordance with the schedule appended to the Bill. The schedule provides an outline of the purposes for which assistance will be provided and the approximate terms and conditions under which it will be provided. They have been outlined fairly comprehensively by previous speakers. 

 Senator Tehan mentioned interest rates. I make one point about interest rates. It is a popular notion in agricultural areas that finance ought to be made available for agriculture at concessional rates of interest. This Bill provides for finance at concessional rates of interest. While there may sometimes be a case for this, I make the point that when funds are provided on a long term basis at concessional rates of interest there is absolutely no incentive- indeed there is a positive disincentive- to repay those funds. Farmers who in 1970 and 1971 received loans at rates of interest as low as 4 per cent a year and who, because of the subsequent boom in both wheat and wool industries, are now quite affluent, still have money loaned to them in 1970 and 1971 at an interest rate of 4 per cent a year. The point I am making is that if these people were forced to pay the commercial rate of interest- given the current financial situation of many of them there is no reason on welfare grounds why they should not be forced to pay commercial rates of interest- there would be some incentive to repay the loans. Therefore more funds would be available to lend to some other farmers whose needs are greater, both as individuals and because of the subsequent adjustments which those other loans would promote within agriculture. 
I regret that when introducing this Bill the Government did not see fit to make any provisions for the fishing industry, which in some parts of Australia faces problems which are similar- problems of surplus capacities- to those which affect many sectors of agriculture. The Commonwealth Development Bank, until 7 months ago, used to make funds available for the purchase of fishing boats- this has a role to play in the reconstruction of the fishing industry- at interest rates between per cent and 1  Vh  per cent a year, which approximated the overdraft rate. But about 7 months ago the Government, although it increased the limit of these loans from $200,000 to $300,000, increased the interest rate to 13 per cent. There seems to be a good deal of inconsistency in the treatment by the Government of different sectors with similar problems. On the one hand funds are being made available to agriculture at a concessional rate of interest and to the other sector, the fishing industry, at a rate of interest which is above the current overdraft rate. I suggest that in both instances the case is much stronger for the interest charge to be set at approximately the overdraft rate. 
The problems with which this Bill is concerned, as the word 'reconstruction' implies, are principally the problems of structural adjustment in agriculture. Sometimes the provisions of the Bill will be used to overcome short term declines in farm income caused by agricultural problems on the production side or by short term problems on the marketing side. But in the main it is concerned with the structural problems which are deep-seated, the causes of which are unlikely to go away. Those industries which have structural problems display certain common attributes: Their comparative advantages, if they ever possessed any, are rapidly deteriorating; they nave surplus capacity; they are generally labour intensive and they are also characterised by very low marginal returns. In some instances the problems are further compounded by an excessive number of farms which are too small to be viable. When the problems of the deteriorating comparative advantage, low marginal returns and so on interact with the small farm problem, the problems become very significant. 
It is at least equally important for farmers to be informed adequately of the realities of the industries in which they are placed as it is to provide funds under legislation of this nature. It is in this area that the present Government and the parties which comprise it, both when in Government and when in Opposition, ought to be severely chastised. Many sectors of the fruit growing industry, of the dairy industry, of the canned fruit industry and of other industries have deep seated structural problems which have not been caused by ephemeral influences. Yet spokesmen for the Government say that this is the case. They present directly opposite conclusions. On 20 November, at a National Party rally at Roma, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  attempted, as he and his colleagues normally do, to blame all the agricultural problems on the previous Labor Government. He went on with the usual rhetoric about the changes wrought on the farming community by the Whitlam Government with its spendthrift policies and its desire to take all that it could from the rural sector, etc. He said: 
Whitlam inflation crippled the ability of the rural sector to compete profitably on international markets. 
And the things taken away from the rural sector, that had been assumed for so long, had a devastating effect during the 3 years Labor were in office. 
He did not specify the things which were taken away, but I presume that he meant, among other things, those taxation dodges which were deliberately and explicitly designed to encourage new investment in agriculture or to provide the incentive to what our opponents in 1973 called an urgent need to increase production. In 1973 the then Opposition severely criticised the Labor Government for removing these tax concessions which were deliberately designed to encourage new investment and greater production in agriculture. Yet in a very short time we saw the wisdom of this decision. I refer to the fact that so many sectors of agriculture already had surplus capacity, the most dramatic of these being the beef industry. It had been in trouble for more than 2 years. According to  Mr Anthony  in 1973, it faced a very favourable future. He said that demand for beef would increase so fast that we would be flat out trying to keep up with it. It did not take very long to show how grossly in error he was on that point. In a statement, which is numbered 153A by the Parliamentary Library, the Minister said: 
Things have come to such a pass that the question as to whether Australia needs a rural sector, and whether it can survive, has been posed throughout the community- not in a jocular fashion, nor without serious consideration. 
I suggest that that is alarmist clap-trap. Of course the rural sector will survive with or without assistance from this Government. Its structural composition and its size are certainly open to dispute and to revision, but its survival  per se  is not in doubt. For the Minister to suggest that it is in doubt or that it ever has been in doubt is the epitome of irresponsibility. He also said: 
Let me assure you that the National Country Party and the coalition Government are totally committed, not just to the survival of agriculture, but to a stage where adequate profits can be earned from investing in the land . . . 
It is an interesting notion that the Government should underwrite the earning of adequate profits from investing in the land. Among other things, it incorporates the notion that the Government should guarantee a specific or predetermined return on capital used to buy land which, if adopted, locks us into a vicious circlethe higher the return on investment in land, the higher the level at which the Government guarantees, inevitably the higher the price of land becomes. To meet this commitment to provide a minimum return on capital the Government has then to increase again in some way the prices of the commodities produced on the land. So we start off on the next round. It incorporates the sort of economic thinking which led to the injustices and the distortions of the corn laws in England which were repealed more than 100 years ago. I suppose that is where the Country Party and the present Minister for Primary Industry really belong- about 100 years ago. In statement No. 117, which was delivered about July- I do not have the precise date- the Minister said: 
If you have the resources for agricultural development, then develop them without wasting them. 
The Government has a mindless commitment to development  per se.  The application of that belief as government policy and the implementation of that belief as government policy is the direct cause of the problems in many of the industries which are the subject of this piece of legislation. The mindless expansion of irrigation schemes is an example. The Goulburn Valley is perhaps the most recent and most demonstrably foolish example in that respect. Throughout the 1960s a massive program of orchard planting and expansion of irrigation was undertaken which almost doubled the capacity of the Australian canned fruit industry. It, of course, is one of the major problem industries with which this Bill is concerned. This sort of thing might be good rah-rah stuff at Country Party rallies. But, whether deliberately or otherwise, to mislead the farmers of Australia about the actual conditions in their industries and the true realities they face is the epitome of irresponsibility. 
As recently as 15 November the Minister repeated the line that large increases in costs caused by inflation under the Whitlam Government were largely responsible for reducing the living standards of those in the farming community. At Rockhampton only last Saturday he said: 
Labor saw inflation as a means of paying for its spending sprees. But what Whitlam 's rural rip-off really did was to cripple the ability of the rural sector to compete profitably on international markets. Four and a half million dollars of agricultural exports and the way of life of rural communities all around Australia were placed in jeopardy. 
The Minister for Primary Industry. The facts of the situation are very different. The fruit growing, dairying and canned fruit industries have been problem industries since way back into the 1 960s. As I said at the beginning of my speech, their problems, though they may be marginally exacerbated by inflation and a few other things, are deep-seated and structural. They are found in the simple fact that these industries are labour intensive in a high labour cost country, that they face quantitative restrictions at the marketing end, that the marginal returns are extremely low, that they have surplus capacity and that whatever comparative advantage they may have had is either steadily or rapidly being eroded. These problems are all compounded by the fact that in many instances the farms are too small. 
Before closing I must pass some comment on  Senator Walters'  remarks this afternoon. Firstly, she misquoted what I had said about the effects of devaluation on Australia 's problem industries. I did not say that devaluation would provide no assistance for the dairying industry or for beef production. What I did say was that the greatest assistance- the greatest benefits- would flow to those sectors which were already relatively well off, particularly wheat and wool and perhaps, to a slightly lesser extent, sugar, that the beef producers would get some value, that the dairy farmers would get very little and that in the very specific case of apple producers the increases in freight costs could well be great enough completely to offset the price gains. I wanted to put the records straight on that. 

 Senator Walters then developed her argument that devaluation would provide massive assistance to Tasmanian apple exporters. With the superb logic for which her Party and its coalition partner are noted she tried to prove her point by saying that Mt Lyell would remain open because of devaluation. As far as I know, nothing much grows around Mt Lyell at all. I think that I have the right place. There are certainly no apple orchards. I think that that area produces copper. What the price of copper has to do with the price of apples  Senator Walters  failed to explain. 
But since she raises the point it is obvious that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics does not share her optimism about the effects of devaluation on farm incomes. Despite having tried on 2 occasions in the last fortnight by way of question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  who represents the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in this place, I have not been able to get the Government's or the Treasury's official estimates of the effect of devaluation on farm incomes or the export prices of agricultural commodities. But one forecast from the BAE has been published and that forecast estimated that net farm income would increase by some $1 50m in the remaining 7 months of this financial year as a direct result of devaluation. That figure cannot be reconciled with the $700m a year increase in agricultural export prices which the Treasurer claimed in a speech last week. 
I would like to see the Government give some clarification as to how $150m in 7 months can suddenly be transformed into $700m over a full year. The point is that if the full benefits of devaluation flowed on into agricultural prices, as  Senator Walters  seemed to believe they would, the aggregate income received by Australian agricultural exporters would increase by something like $900m. The Treasurer says $700m. Not even he shares  Senator Walters'  optimism. Of course, that is a nonsense figure, as the BAE estimate shows. The true figure for the increase in agricultural prices will probably be around $300m to $350m. I remind  Senator Walters  once again that the overwhelming majority of that benefit, both proportionally and in aggregate, will accrue to the relatively well-off wool and wheat producers. When the second round effects of devaluation are taken into account- and by that, of course, I mean the inflation which even the Government acknowledges will be generatedthe Tasmanian apple producers could well be, on balance, disadvantaged by devaluation. 
The weakness of this Bill introduced by the Government is that it is directed only at farmers, that there is no provision for the national rural adjustment board of the type recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission which could have taken action on a broader front than would be possible under any scheme which is oriented only to farmers. There are people other than farmers who are affected by the structural problems and the long term decline of agricultural industries. People who are directly employed in agriculture without being farmers themselves have been completely ignored by this legislation. This has also been the case with people who are employed in or who are proprietors of the service industries in the rural towns. This legislation provides nothing for these people. To some extent and to some degree the Opposition proposes to try to remedy that defect with an amendment which will be moved by  Senator Gietzelt  during the Committee stage. 
During the Prime Minister's absence in Indonesia photographs were published in Australian newspapers accompanied by reports which showed that the Prime Minister and some members of his staff, journalists and other Australians, were visiting and walking through an intensive cattle feed lot on President Suharto's farm in Java, an area in which, among other things foot, and mouth disease is endemic. After a good deal of confusion and some evasion which is revealed in the documents which have been incorporated, it became clear that although the footwear worn on the farm by people on the Prime Minister's staff was adequately disinfected, the other persons who were also on the farm could not even be identified. That is made very clear in the final couple of paragraphs of the letter of the Minister for Health of 10 November. It reads: 
It is understood that a number of Australians including journalists who travelled as private citizens and not as members of the official party, also visited the farms covered by the Prime Minister. The number and identity of these persons would not be known to quarantine officials. However, on their return to Australia, these people would be subject to the normal Customs/Quarantine surveillance measures applying to all persons entering this country. 
He concluded: 
I trust that this information clarifies the matter and provides the assurance that you have sought that all necessary quarantine precautions were undertaken. 
It does not provide that assurance. I have spoken to some of the journalists who visited President Suharto's farm on Java. Normal procedures may have been followed when they returned to Australia; but I do not know whether the procedures followed were 'normal'. What happended was that those returning were asked whether they had been on a farm abroad. They replied: 'Yes'. They were asked whether their shoes were clean. Some of them were wearing the shoes that they had worn on the farm. A visual inspection showed that they looked pretty clean. The virus that causes foot and mouth disease, of course, is not visible to the naked eye. No other precautions were taken. The footwear which was worn by these people when they returned to Australia was not fumigated. 
We face conflicting objectives with quarantine procedures. If we want to have absolute security, we ban anyone or anything coming into Australia. Some adjustment or some sort of trade-off has to be made between the security objective and the convenience objective. Precisely how much emphasis ought to be placed on either of those conflicting objectives is arguable, I suppose. I submit that, in these circumstances, the procedures applied were not adequate and revealed considerable negligence. The circumstances were that people who had visited an extremely high risk area re-entered Australia with only a visual examination of the footwear that they were wearing in that high risk area. 
I think that the present Prime Minister, more so than a typical Australian Prime Minister because he has an agricultural background, ought to have been especially aware of the potential dangers and ought to have insisted on or taken some special precautions to see that all of the people who visited that farm in Indonesia were examined adequately when they came back to Australia, as the members of his own party were. The Prime Minister, of all people, ought to have been aware of this requirement and ought to have seen that adequate precautions were taken. Perhaps we have been lucky. Perhaps foot and mouth disease was not introduced into Australia through this event. But there was a considerable and a greater than normal risk that it could have been introduced. I trust that, if in future the Prime Minister is to make visits abroad and for reasons of publicity or whatever he visits farms owned by leaders of other countries and takes parties of officials and Australian journalists to those farms, he will ensure that more adequate precautions are taken to protect Australia from exotic diseases than were taken in this instance. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What assumptions in regard to: 
increases in aggregate income received by payasyouearn taxpayers in 1976-77; 
increases in the number of pay-as-you-earn taxable employees; 
Medibank levy collections from pay-as-you-earn employees; 
net revenue increases accruing from changes in personal and dependent spouse tax rebates and cancellation of other dependants rebates; or 
any other relevant variable. 
Underpin the forecast increase of $ 1,755.3m (or 25 per cent) in net pay-as-you-earn tax collections set out in Budget Paper No. 1 at page 115. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has a  Mr J.  Gaul been appointed a consultant to either the Minister, or his Department. If so, is this the same  Mr Gaul  who was employed on the staffs of Messrs McMahon, Snedden and Fraser at times when those gentlemen occupied the positions of Leader of the Parliamentary Liberal Party. 
What duties is  Mr Gaul  engaged to perform. 
3 ) On what date did the consultancy commence and what is its intended duration. 
Is the consultancy part-time and, if so, what fraction of full-time service is expected during its course. 
What fee is to be paid, and is this fee calculated on a time (e.g. hourly or daily) basis or is it a single overall sum for the service. 
Apart from the fee what other costs such as travel, subsistence, secretarial, communications and printing are associated with this consultancy. 
If the answer to (1) is affirmative, will the Minister ensure that  Mr Gaul  is not placed in a conflict of interest situation, and require him to cease publication of his confidential newsletter  Objective  during the period of his consultancy. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the cost in each of the last five years of the special privileges provided for each former Prime Minister of Australia. 
What was the basic salary and overtime paid to each car driver assigned to each former Prime Minister in each of the last five years. 
What is the cost of providing offices and associated facilities, including staff, for each former Prime Minister in each ofthe last five years. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasury, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the total amount of industry assistance paid to firms in Western Australia in 1975-76, including imputed assistance from the investment allowance. 
What amount was paid to each ofthe 50 firms which received the greatest amount of assistance or, alternatively, what amount was paid to each of the following sectors: agriculture, mining, transport, food processing, metal industries, other manufacturing. 
What are the estimated payments for 1976-77. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) During each of the past two years how many service personnel have performed duty on attachment to (a) the Governor-General, (b) the Governor of Queensland, (c) the Governor of New South Wales, (d) the Governor of Victoria, (e) the Governor of Tasmania, (f) the Governor of South Australia, and (g) the Governor of Western Australia. 
What was the rank and length of duty of each service person referred to in ( 1 ). 
For each of the cases (a) to (g) referred to in (1), what was the value of wages for the service persons involved. 
In each of the cases (b) to (g) does the State Government pay a contribution towards the cost of these service persons ' wages; if so, how much. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, what we are witnessing this afternoon is a subterfuge designed by the Liberal Party to try to get  Sir Charles  Court off the hook in the Western Australian State elections to be held next Saturday. This debate is a red herring to divert attention from Premier Court's failure to deliver the cargo which this greatest of all cargo cultists promised in the 1974 election campaign. Among other things, the Premier gave an assurance in March 1974- and I use his own words- that inflation to a substantial degree can be beaten State by State. He promised that, if elected, a Liberal Party government would proceed to do just that, that is, to beat inflation State by State. He promised also that he could, as he put it, 'put things right within 6 months'. By that, he meant that he could generate thousands of additional jobs and cure unemployment within 6 months of being elected Premier of Western Australia. 
How has his performance measured up to those extravagant promises? In fact, since he was elected almost 3 years ago, the Western Australia Premier has presided over the highest rate of inflation of any Australian State. He is currently presiding over the most rapidly increasing unemployment in any State of Australia. He has presided over a 250 per cent absolute increase in unemployment since March 1974. Let me quote the actual statistics to support my claim. If we look at the consumer price index for Perth we find that since Premier Court proceeded with his strategy to beat inflation State by State the consumer price index in Perth has increased by 44.5 per cent compared with a national average of less than 40 per cent. That increase of 44.5 per cent is above any consumer price index increase recorded in any other Australian State. So, far from beating inflation State by State as he undertook to do, the Premier of Western Australia in fact has failed miserably and has the most miserable record in this area of any government of this country. 
Let us look next at unemployment. While it is true that the current level of unemployment in Western Australia is below the national average- and that is normal in a recession- it is not true as the Premier and one of his Ministers asserted that it is the lowest in Australia. In fact, South Australia has the lowest percentage of unemployment in Australia. More importantly, there is an alarming trend in unemployment in Western Australia. If we look at recent figures, we find emerging that alarming trend which shows that unemployment is increasing far more rapidly in Western Australia than it is in the nation as a whole or in any other State. Using round figures based on 1000, from the end of November 1976 to the end of January 1977 unemployment nationally increased from 272 000 to 354000, Alarming though that increase is- and the figures are artificially suppressed by the decision of this Government on the payment of unemployment benefits by which the Government has attempted, as the  Australian Financial Review  succinctly put it, to cook the unemployment figures- looking at the position in Western Australia in the light of that alarming national trend, we find that the number of registered unemployed in that State has increased from 1 8 000 to 26 000 in the same period- an increase of 40 per cent. So, I say: So much for Premier Court's ability to beat inflation State by State and to put things right. 
Having failed to deliver the cargo, he now says that there are 25 000 jobs in the pipeline, pursuant to the magnificent developmental projects of which he is the architect and which only he can bring to fruition. The basis of the calculation of these alleged 25 000 jobs- or the assumed multiplier to which  Senator Thomas  referred earlier- has not been mentioned. The basis on which that figure is arrived at includes such pie in the sky projects as the proposed Alwest alumina refinery. The consortium at this stage has not even reached agreement on the financial arrangements, much less made a firm decision to proceed with the project. Although Agnew is being developed, there is no new iron ore project yet in the pipeline. There are expansions of a couple of existing projects, but there is no new project proposed. One of the reasons why there is no new project is the eternal fued between the Premier of Western Australia and  Mr Lang  Hancock. I will have more to say about that matter later if time permits. These 25 000 jobs are about as likely to materialise as  Sir Charles  Court is likely to beat inflation State by State and to put things right within 6 months. 
There has been a significant downturn in the mining industry in Western Australia and in the nation as a whole. The reason for that downturn- or should I describe it as a cessation of growth- are complex and numerous. I commend to  Senator Chaney  a study of the most recent annual report of the Industries Assistance Commission. It is worth nothing. If he cares to look at the appropriate table, he will discover that the total investment in mining in Australia increased steadily in the late 1960s and early 1970s. It peaked at $195m in 1971-72. But that total investment fell in 1972-73 to $ 107m. From 1971-72 to 1972-73 investment in mining almost halved. The significance of that fact is that it predated the ministry of  Mr Rex  Connor and any effect, beneficial or otherwise,  Mr Connor  may have had on mining in Australia. So, whatever were the numerous and complex factors which caused the pause in mining growth from 1973 onwards one reason certainly was not the ministry of  Mr Rex  Connor. 
The major factor in regard to iron ore and nickel was that the market had been saturated. In the late 1960s and early 1970s a massive expansion occurred in the production base of mining. Investment figures for Australia show this. It will be seen that similar circumstances prevailed in a number of other producing countries. That lumpy development entailed a slower rate of growth in the future no matter what else happened. But superimposed upon that inevitable downturn in the rate of growth was the world wide recession of 1973-74 and the absolute reduction in the quantity demanded, particularly of iron ore, by Japan. In those two factors- I repeat that the first was that growth had been abnormally high in the late 1960s and early 1970s and that the second was the quantitative ceiling on demand from 1973-74 onwards because of the international economic recessionlies the major reason for the pause in mining development in recent years. 
But there is little doubt that over the last year in Western Australia that pause has been compounded by the abrasiveness of the Premier himself. I refer again to his feuding with  Mr Lang  Hancock and also to his refusal to co-operate in any way with the development of the Hanwright Marandoo deposits. I mention also his attempt to score political points by talking about Reds under beds, hot lines to Moscow and similar paranoid outbursts that he came out with 6 months ago. He claimed that there was a communist plot engineered in Moscow to subvert mining and, therefore, mineral development in the Pilbara. I suppose that it is considered par for the course for any Liberal Party Premier or Prime Minister to indulge in a bit of union bashing. But in this context it is far more significant for us to look at the relations of this Premier with his coalition partners and his own Ministers. 
The feud between the Liberal and Country Parties which led ultimately to a breakdown of the coalition in May 1975 produced, for example, a comment from  Mr David  Reid, who I understand was once a senator in this place and who at that time was the  President  of, I think it was called, the National Alliance- the political organisation which used to be known as the Country Party and which is now, I think, called the National Country Party. The  President  of that body at that time said of  Sir Charles  Court: 
I know how totally bloody-minded he can be. So much so that he will cut the nose off the State and endanger its vital industries to win a personal point. 
That was the opinion of the  President  of the Party which was in coalition with  Sir Charles  Court's Party on  Sir Charles  Court and the well known abrasiveness of that personality. Although I do not think that  Mr Hancock's  language has ever been quite so blunt, he has frequently gone on public record as saying similar things about  Sir Charles  Court and  Sir Charles  Court's refusal to co-operate with anyone and to share power or responsibility with anyone.  Sir Charles  Court has to be running the entire show his way all of the time. That is one of the factors supplementary to the others that I have mentioned which have made it more difficult to achieve a substantial resumption of mining industry growth in the Pilbara. 
There was another factor with special relevance to the North West Shelf. I think that  Senator Wriedt  mentioned it. I refer to the fact that Woodside-Burmah or Burmah Oil- I have forgotten which company it was- was in extreme financial difficulties and ultimately had its share in the North West Shelf consortium taken over by Shell and BHP. Reasons of internal company liquidity and solvency therefore were also a factor in that delay. 
A further complication, of course, was the long continuing dispute, which finally has been resolved, over legal control- governmental controlof off-shore areas. In this regard I noted that  Senator Chaney  saw fit to castigate the Labor Party's spokesman on these matters,  Mr Keating,  for having said- I cannot remember the exact words-something to the effect that a future Labor federal government would view with some suspicion exploration permits granted by State governments in view of the High Court's decision on these matters.  Senator Chaney  saw fit to castigate  Mr Keating  for expressing that view. I wonder why he failed to castigate the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who, in a telex to the Premier of Western Australia on 8 November in reply to a request by the Premier of Western Australia to administer off-shore areas in this way, said: 
The Government has had regard to the advice received from its law officers that the Commonwealth could not legally accede to the State's request on this matter. 
So the Prime Minister was simply endorsing the view that has been put forward by  Mr Keating  and that has been put forward by almost everyone who has looked seriously at these matters. Ever since the High Court judgment they have said that this is a black and white question of law and that it is not a question of political ideology. The sooner  Sir Charles  Court faces the fact that he does not have legal control over these areas, no matter how much he would like to have legal control over them, the sooner real development is likely to proceed. 
As evidence of the State's failure to achieve its objective in  Sir Charles  Court's way- I suspect that it is only  Sir Charles  Court's way; I think that there are many other people in the Western Australian Government who have a more rational approach to this matter- I wish to quote from an article in the  West Australian  of 8 January of this year in which the Minister for Mines,  Mr Mensaros,  announced that the State was calling applications for exploration permits over quite a wide range of off-shore areas.  Mr Mensaros  said that applications had been called previously by the State. The article states: 

 Mr Mensaros said that the areas had previously been offered with a closing date on applications. However, there had been no applications. 
That was long after  Mr Rex  Connor ceased to be Minister for Minerals and Energy. It was in JulyAugust 1976. It was long after the Whitlam Government was out of office federally. The reason no applications were received was that the oil companies realised what a farce it was for  Sir Charles  Court to pretend that he had effective control when he does not have effective control. The sooner  Sir Charles  Court realises that, the more likely projects are to go ahead. 
In conclusion, in addition to the threat posed by  Sir Charles  Court to the development of Western Australia, including the development of the Pilbara, there is the threat posed by the Fraser Government's new federalism policy and its capital starvation of the States, which has forced the Western Australian Government into the ludicrous position where it is contemplating going out onto the private capital market and allowing a private consortium to build a power station at Muja to provide the electricity that is needed for industrial development in Western Australia. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-Order!  The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-My question is directed to  Senator Carrick,  if he has regained his wind, in his capacity as Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. The question flows from that asked earlier by  Senator Wriedt  and concerns a report in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 13 January that under the proposed relativities review Western Australia would lose $12m to $14m. I ask: Can the Minister give an assurance that Western Australia's relative share will not be reduced, as the  Sydney Morning Herald  reported? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Does the 16 per cent increase in the clothing group prices for the year ended December 1976, which is well above the level of wage increases and 50 per cent above what the Treasurer claims to be the underlying rate of inflation, indicate a linkage between high protection and above normal price increases? Will the decisions announced last, week- the continuation of tariff quota levels and the introduction of additional special duty arrangements- further aggravate the problem? How does the Government reconcile its support of increasing tariff protection with controlling inflation? 
I am somewhat confused by  Senator Missen  's remarks. Usually he has a logical and coherent mind and displays it when he speaks in this Parliament. There were a number of logical inconsistencies in the remarks he made. However I guess that that is a function of the Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill which has been thrust on him and which he is obliged to support. I would like to draw attention to two of those inconsistencies. Firstly he commends the Bill because it provides machinery to make redistributions compulsory under certain conditions. That is a provision which has been imposed on this Government by a decision of the High Court of Australia. He then went on to commend clause 10 of the Bill which precludes a redistribution being held less than 7 years after the previous redistribution no matter how great may be the need for it. I find more than a small element of contradiction in  Senator Missen  's attitude to that clause. 
More important is his attitude towards clause 7. He pointed out the fact that the existing Commonwealth Electoral Act provides for the commissioners to take into account factors like population, growth patterns, community of interest, transport and so on. That is true and this Bill will continue that practice. That will continue even after this Bill is passed and I presume it will be passed. But he then commended clause 7 which superimposes by arbitrary decree, over and above and irrespective of those factors, a provision that no so-called large electorate may contain a greater number of electors than any socalled small electorate. That arbitrary decree effectively wipes out all the other factors which the commissioners are to consider and which exist in the existing Act in which  Senator Missen  sees some merit. In attempting to justify this provision in clause 7- this arbitrary decree that regardless of all other factors no electorate with more than 5000 square kilometres will contain more electors than any electorate with less than 5000 square kilometres- he mentioned that there were 10 electorates in Victoria larger than 5000 square kilometres. I am grateful to him for that information because it points out the absurdity of this clause even if we accept the specious rationale for it that the Government has offered. In the smallest mainland State, the most thickly populated mainland State, there are no fewer than 10 so-called large electorates. Obviously that proposition must be seen to be absurd when one remembers that the electorate of Kalgoorlie, which has about 16 times as large an area as the entire State of Victoria, will be treated for the purposes of this Bill, under clause 7, precisely the same as any of those 10 so-called large electorates in one State, the smallest mainland State and the most heavily populated mainland State. 
I regard this piece of legislation as outrageous. It provides more scope for greater abuse of fundamental democratic principles than even the pre- 1973 Act provided. The redistributions have been forced upon this Government by High Court decisions. It has shirked a confrontation over the restoration of the previous 20 per cent deviation from the mean quota for a State which was amended at the joint sitting in 1974 to a deviation of 10 per cent. The Government instead chose a devious back-door restoration of the same malapportionment which was practised under the Act prior to 1974. 1 guess it is typical. In fact it is almost predictable, given the record of this Government. It has a record of deviousness and broken promises on Medibank and on indexation. It gave assurances that it could cure inflation and unemployment. It has just presided over the biggest quarterly increase in the consumer price index that we have seen since  Sir Robert  Menzies presided over the all-time record increase in 1951. It is presiding over the highest level of unemployment that we have seen since 1930. It said that there would be no more jobs for the boys but it has just appointed another ex-Liberal Cabinet Minister as the High Commissioner to London. We have a Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who said that he would not reject a Budget and who said that he would not challenge the previous Leader of the Liberal Party for leadership of that Party. It is almost predictable that a government with that record and led by the present Prime Minister would seek to restore electoral malapportionment by this devious back-door method which it has chosen. 

 Senator Young attempted to justify the malapportionment in the numbers of electors on the ground, and we have heard all this before, that there are certain sprawling country electorates around which the diligent local member incessantly trudges, when he is not tied up with his parliamentary duties, attempting to provide a service for his electors. I have 2 comments to make. Until 1974 1 lived for all my life in such an electorate. It was represented at both State and Federal levels usually by the Country Party but occasionally by the Liberal Party. I can assure  Senator Young  that those members always lived in Perth and were rarely seen in their electorates. More importantly, I wonder if  Senator Young,  as a South Australian, has ever stood outside the Commonwealth Parliamentary Offices in Adelaide and watched the queue of people outside the electoral office of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  sitting in splendid isolation in his office far removed from his electors. There are more problems than just area in representing a particular electorate. I suggest, with all due respect to  Senator Young  and the honourable member for Wakefield, that the problems of the electors of the honourable member for Adelaide, and more importantly the problems of the people who live within the boundaries of the Adelaide electorate, provide more work for the local member than is the case in the electorate of Wakefield. 
Firstly, there is a far higher proportion of nonnaturalised Australian residents living in these inner city electorates who still see their local member of Parliament, and correctly so, as the person who should make representations to government and government departments on their behalf. Secondly, many of these people are severely disadvantaged in other ways. Although the rural member may have certain problems associated with distance there are other problems frequently associated with inner city electorates, the magnitude of which more than offsets the problems of distance in rural electorates. It is a specious argument. 
Clause 7, by imposing this arbitrary division into 2 classes of electorates above and below 5000 square kilometres, contradicts the rationale put forward today and, more importantly, put forward more strenuously in the past, by members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party in their attempt to justify the previous 20 per cent deviation from the mean quota of a State. Their previous rationale was that it was absurd to attempt to draw boundaries which would provide for electorates with equal numbers of electors. In those days it was said by members of the Liberal and National Country Parties that the electoral commissioners had to have much more discretion than that and, in particular, that they had to have more discretionary power so that they could adjust the enrolment in an electorate at the time of a redistribution in accordance with the foreseeable population growth patterns in that and other electorates. In other words, an electorate usually on the fringe of a city- not necessarily a major or capital citymight clearly show that the population would rapidly increase in that electorate because of the growth patterns of the city. 
Therefore, it was argued by members of the Liberal and National Country Parties- with more logic than they normally display in these matters- that it was desirable that the electoral commissioners be given a certain amount of discretionary power to provide for a relatively low number of electors m those electorates at the time the redistribution was ordered. This was done so that, by the time an election was actually held or when a subsequent election was held, the number of electors in that division would be appropriate. Whatever merit that argument had- it had some merit- it has been wiped off the books by clause 7. This is terribly important. It provides that no electorate of more than 5000 square kilometres may have more electors within it than any electorate with less than 5000 kilometres. So, the discretionary power previously available to electoral commissioners to forecast anticipated changes in population growth within divisions has now been effectively removed. Yet  Senator Missen  somehow manages to rationalise the position. Although he supports that discretionary power for the electoral commissioners, I gather from his remarks that he also supports clause 7 of this Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill. 
But even worse is to come. Let us take clause 7 in combination with clause 10. Clause 10 precludes a redistribution at intervals more frequent than 7 years unless the entire State quota  via a vis  the national quota has got out of kilter. The clause precludes a redistribution within a State, unless more than 25 per cent of electorates are out of quotas in that State, more frequently than 7 years. When one puts these 2 clauses together the scenario which emerges is this: At the time of a redistribution outer city electorates which are usually rapidly growing in terms of population will be compelled to have a relatively high number of electors. Such electorates will grow rapidly thereby further distorting the initial imbalance in equity of numbers. This Act will prevent a redistribution being held for at least 7 years. It explicitly prevents a redistribution being held in less than 7 years which is probably, effectively, for 3 House of Representatives elections. 
I mentioned that. I excluded the possibility that the whole State quota became out of kilter  vis a vis  the national entitlement. If that happens there will have to be a redistribution. But there cannot be a redistribution at intervals more frequent than 7 years no matter what happens to the relative population levels in divisions within a State. So, those 2 factors compound each other. This Bill provides scope for even greater distortions in the number of people in electorates than the previous pre- 1974 legislation which provided a 20 per cent deviation from the quota mean provided. But I fear even worse might be to come. Clause 1 1 of the Bill provides for an election at large if a redistribution has not been conducted in a State in time for an election. No conditions are laid down under which an election at large will be conducted. 
I put this question to the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  and I hope he will answer. Is it envisaged that an election at large will be held under the regulation making powers in section 219 of the existing Commonwealth Electoral Act? Even if it is not envisaged that an election at large be held under regulations issued in accordance with section 219, is it possible that an election at large could be held under regulations issued in accordance with that section? If the answer to either of those questions is yes, anyone who witnessed the events of late 1975 does not need too much imagination to visualise a situation in which a redistribution proposal for one or more States put by the commissioners could be rejected in this Parliament and then, if an election is due, an election at large could be held in that one or more States. 
If the election is held under conditions laid down by regulation, what is to prevent a government or a political party deciding in a State where it believes it can get more than 50 per cent of the votes that it will issue regulations providing for what is usually known as an exhaustive preferential ballot? In other words it is a winnertakeall system where any group which gets more than 50 per cent of the vote takes all the seats. Simultaneously in a different State regulations could be issued which would provide that an election be held according to proportional representation. Could any of the State governments issue such regulations? Is it possible that Queensland- if recent voting performance is to be taken as an indication of future voting performance the Liberal and National Country Parties could confidentally expect more than 50 per cent of the vote- could issue regulations for an exhaustive preferential ballot in an election at large? This would give the Liberal-National Country Parties all the seats. 
In a State like New South Wales where normally more than 50 per cent of the people vote for the Australian Labor Party a government could issue regulations requiring proportional representation. Under that system the LiberalNational Country Parties might get 45 per cent of the seats and the Labor Party 50 per cent of the seats. Is there anything to prevent any of these possibilities which I have outlined? I believe there is not. Of course, once it would have been inconceivable that any Australian government would ever resort to that sort of electoral chicanery. But I suggest that after the events of late 1975 nothing is inconceivable unless it is expressly prevented by law. Indeed, I am not absolutely confident that it still would not be inconceivable. Those people who populate the Liberal and Country Party benches in the Senate, who rant and rave about the power of executive government and the necessity for the Senate, who proclaim that the Senate is the last bastion of the people's rights against the arbitrary exercise of power by executive government, and who pontificate along these lines, ought to be terribly concerned about the possibilities for abuse which are opened up by this Bill. So far those honourable senators have been conspicuously silent. I suspect that notwithstanding their normal cant and humbug they will remain conspicuously silent. 
The plain fact is that the Liberal and Country Parties proved in 1975 that they are not to be trusted with any discretionary exercise of power or with any sort of loosely, ill-defined power in any electoral Act or in the Constitution. Since those events nothing is inconceivable if they can get away with it. This Bill provides enormous scope for the Government to get away with a great deal of electoral malpractice. The Opposition will oppose both the second and third readings of this Bill and will seek to amend the most obnoxious clauses, clauses 7, 10 and 11. 1 hope the Minister will provide some assurance that the horrendous possibilities which we have outlined and for which this BUI seems to pave the way will not be able to be put into practice. However, I suspect that he will not. 
I find it a little ironic that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, who has just resumed his seat, should have chosen to comment upon the monolithic, authoritarian empire that  President  Nixon built up around himself in the White House in Washington. For 4 years, without demur, to the best of my knowledge,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack supported the conscription of young Australians and the dispatch of young Australians to fight in Nixon's war in Vietnam. So I think it is rather late in the day for  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack to begin to develop moral reservations about ex-President Nixon and the supporters of ex-President Nixon. However tainted the Government's motives might be in introducing this Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill- terms such as political expediency, deceit, cynicism and hypocrisy, among others, have been thrown around by members of the Liberal Party of Australia and in my view the motive is quite clearly and incontestably the desire of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to protect half of his senators from the wrath of the electorate 12 months hence- the Bill provides an opportunity for significant constitutional reform. That the motives, so far as the Government is concerned, are so reprehensible, if I may borrow the word, should surprise nobody who has watched the performance of this Liberal-National Country Party coalition both before its seizure of power and ever since. 
My Party, the Australian Labor Party, has consistently supported this proposition, in government and m opposition, whether or not we saw short term political advantages for the Labor Party in that support. However, the fact that the Government is motivated by cynicism and hypocrisy provides no support for the arguments mounted by honourable senators who are opposing the Bill. Without exception their arguments are spurious or obsolete or both. The major points in opposition have been put by  Senator Wright.  He expressed great concern for the rights of the people. What  Senator Wright  seeks to do in opposing this Bill, if he could get the numbers- fortunately he will not- is to deny the people the right to vote upon this proposition. Let us be perfectly clear on that.  Senator Wright,  in opposing this Bill, far from upholding the rights of the people, seeks to deny the people their most fundamental right, namely the right to vote in a referendum on a proposal to amend the Constitution. He claimed that the referendum, if ultimately carried, would reduce the power of the Senate. Whatever merit there may be in reducing the power of the Senate- and in my view it is substantial- the only power which this Bill and this referendum seek to take from the Senate is the power to force an election in the House of Representatives without any members of the Senate having to present themselves to the electorate. The referendum, if carried, will remove the scope for capricious or malevolent misuse of power by the Senate without responsibility. 
Since the Ellicott-Barwick-Kerr doctrine was proclaimed in 1975, the situation has changed fundamentally and in a manner not envisaged by  Senator Wright  when he wrote his 1959 minority report. Under post-November 1975 practice or perhaps even law, the Senate can force the House of Representatives to an election every 6 months by stalling- not even by rejecting- Supply or Appropriation Bills. Unless by sheer coincidence there are other Bills which fulfil the requirements of section 57, no part of the Senate faces the electors to be judged on its actions; that is, unless this referendum is carried. It is simply not true to assert, as most of the people opposing this Bill have asserted, that simultaneous elections can be secured without carrying the referendum. Simultaneous elections can be guaranteed only if the Bill and the subsequent referendum are carried. 
The spurious argument that the Senate is an independent body was most convincingly refuted in 1975. If those honourable senators who oppose this Bill and were here in 1975-1 realise that not all of them were here in 1975 - really wanted to display some independence, dignity or integrity, they had the opportunity then. They were tested and found wanting.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack claimed that the people had upheld the decision of the Senate. On what evidence  Senator Magnus  Cormack bases that assertion, I do not know. I presume that because the Liberal Party and the National Country Party were successful in the election which ensued,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is claiming on very tenuous logical grounds that the people thereby endorsed the actions of the Senate. The people decided that they would elect a LiberalNational Country Party coalition government. They made no decisions and were asked no questions about whether they upheld the actions of the Senate or whether they opposed the actions of the Senate at that time. The opinions of the people were scientifically measured by polls which were conducted prior to the dissolution of parliament and they showed quite convincingly and overwhelmingly that the people were opposed to the actions of the Senate. Although it is no longer possible to test directly whether the people supported the Senate's action at that time, putting forward this Bill does provide some opportunity to test, albeit indirectly but more directly than the test of a general election, whether the people do support the action which the Senate took at that time. I have no doubt that the judgment of the people will be warped, distorted, and poisoned by the sort of propaganda that was issued by the Liberal and National Country parties when this question was last put in 1974. 
Several speakers who preceded me in this debate quoted quite extensively from this particularly deceitful document on the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1974 and the referendum document, the  Case/or No.  I shall mention just two of the points raised. This specious, deceitful  Case for No  put forward by the Liberal and National Country parties in 1974, among other things states: 
The dishonesty of this referendum question is that it says this is the only way to get Senate and House of Representatives elections held together. That is simply untrue. 
The truth is that it is the only way to guarantee that Senate and House of Representatives elections will be held simultaneously. There may have been some argument in 1974 as to whether it was the only way; there can be no argument now because the doctrine has been proclaimed and apparently accepted, that the Senate can withhold Supply and force an election in the House of Representatives without any part of the Senate having to present itself to the electors. This deceitful  Case for No  continued: 
Both - 
That is, the Senate and the House of Representatives- are established under the Constitution as equal . . . 
Section 53, 1 think it is, specifically denies to the Senate the right to originate or to amend money Bills. I have no doubt that the same sort of emotional campaign supported by patent untruths will be mounted by those honourable senators in this House who are opposing this Bill and by their supporters outside the House. 

 Senator Sir Magnus Cormack also asserted that the factor which had motivated the senators to defer the appropriation Bills in 1975 was their desire to allow the people to judge what was claimed to be the reprehensible and extraordinary behaviour of the then Labor Government. Unfortunately for  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and for all his colleagues, their present Leader,  Senator Withers,  was indiscreet enough on 9 April 1974 to put into  Hansard  the real reasons why the Liberal and National Country Party senators- every one of them- forced the 1975 election. On 9 April  Senator Withers  said: 
Eighteen months ago we embarked on a course to force an election in the House of Representatives. 
It could not have been expressed more clearly that what motivated the Liberal and National Country Parties in 1974 was cynical, political opportunism- precisely the same motivation they displayed in 1975 and which the present Liberal-National Country Party Government has displayed in introducing this Bill. 
It has been asserted- and it is a tedious and repetitious assertion- that the Senate is a States House; that it protects the interests of the smaller States.  Senator Wright  cited with some authority the book by the  Clerk  of the Senate,  Mr Odgers.  I recall reading  Mr Odgers'  book wherein he asserted that the Senate was a States House which protected the interests of the smaller States. To support that assertion he produced remarkably slight evidence. He referred to a situation in 1 9 1 8. 1 suggest that it is highly significant that he went back to 1 9 1 8 to find an example. He said that on that occasion 2 Tasmanian senators, I think they were, had crossed the floor on a Bill which would have disadvantaged financially the State of Tasmania.  Ipso facto  Mr Odgers  argued that that proved that the Senate was then and by implication still is a States House. It would have been equally logical to argue that because New South Wales senators did not leave their parties to cross the floor and vote against their parties on that measure which would have advantaged the electors of New South Wales, the particular incident proved that the Senate was not a States House. 
We have been subjected to many tedious and repetitious harangues in this chamber about the dignity, the status and the integrity of the Senate when it is a well known fact that the Senate is a consolation prize for people who cannot win seats in the House of Representatives. 
-I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Subscribe to the view that the Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the government of the day, whatever political party. 
Eschew all means, direct or indirect, of diminishing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into A.B.C. Programs. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the Commission which will prevent the granting or withholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general enquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that strong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the enquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 101 citizens: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long term policy should be to provide SO per cent of all funding for Australia s roads. 
That at the minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5,903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether he can reconcile the Treasurer's answer to question on notice No. 1608 given to  Senator McLaren  yesterday, in which the Treasurer denies having claimed last November that full wage indexation and especially the September quarter's 2.2 per cent increase had destroyed the Government's previous economic strategy, with an extract I will quote from a Press statement of the Treasurer dated 28 November 1976. The extract reads:   . . against the background of the obvious reluctance of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to recognise the need to award lower increases in wages, highlighted by the recent decision to pass on the whole of the September quarter consumer price increase, it had become increasingly clear that there was little or no chance of restoring competitiveness of Australian industries by purely domestic policies. 
I repeat Can the Minister reconcile that statement with the Treasurer's answer yesterday to the question on notice? 

 - Senator Rae mentioned earlier a vote which was taken somewhere else. I should like to put it on the record that the vote to which he referred had nothing to do with this Bill. I should like to put a question to  Senator Wright  or some of his supporters. I ask them to explain how, if, the amendment proposing the addition of words to the proposed new section 13 ( 1 ) is agreed to and if a premature election for the House of Representatives were to be held, say within 12 months of the original election for the House of Representatives, but because of the amendment  Senator Wright  proposes no Senate election was held simultaneously with that House of Representatives election, what provision or provisions would determine the term of a senator or the date of the next Senate election. 

 - Senator Wright has not responded to my request to explain, if this amendment which he is proposing should be carried, what provision or provisions, if any, will determine the term of a  Senator. Since  he has failed to comment on this, I presume that there are no provisions. If that is the case, I fail to see how any responsible person could vote for the amendment which he is proposing. As someone who is very much a layman in these matters, I am astounded that someone who purports to be professionally competent, like  Senator Wright,  could put up such a proposal and expect it to be taken seriously but not respond to the question which I have put. 
-I was going to point out what  Senator Wright  has already pointed out, namely, that apparently some of the people who commented before were not precisely certain what amendment was being discussed.  Senator Walters  obviously was not certain because she was talking about the double dissolution provisions of section 57 of the Constitution.  Senator Wright  has correctly pointed out that these amendments deal with something additional to that. 
In effect  Senator Wright  said that it is perfectly reasonable that the Senate at any time of its choosing should be able to force an election in the House of Representatives and have half the Senate go to the polls. If it is perfectly reasonable that the Senate should be able to precipitate an election, surely it is perfectly reasonable that the entire Senate face the electors and be judged on its actions. Apart from that important objection to the amendments that  Senator Wright  has moved, it is apparent, as  Senator Missen  has said, that the amendments have a number of technical defects, not the least of which would be that if they were to be accepted- of course they will not be; they will be thrown out as they deserve to be- conceivably there would be no provision determining the term of a senator or when the term of a senator would expire.  Senator Wright's  obfuscation of a couple of hours ago drew attention to the fact that he does not know the answer to this aspect. 

 Senator Hall touched on the fact that many people, almost all of them on the conservative side I think, who are elected to this Senate appear to acquire delusions of grandeur about the Senate's importance and their importance as senators. I think there is an underlying reason for this. It is a well known fact that a position in the Senate, as I mentioned yesterday, is a compensation or a consolation prize awarded by parties to people who cannot win seats in the House of Representatives or a sinecure for superannuated party hacks of which several examples can normally be found on the other side of the chamber. 
When the present coalition Government came into power, it justified the sleazy circumstances under which it seized power on the grounds that the Labor Government had allegedly mismanaged the economy and that the consequences of that mismanagement were so disastrous and horrendous that anything could be justified which would install a competent team of economic managers in the government of Australia. What has happened since then? Almost all the economic indicators are showing further deterioration, a further slide into recession. The crucial indicators of inflation and unemployment have seriously deteriorated in the 15 months that this Government has been in office. In the calendar year 1976 the consumer price index increased by 14.4 per cent as against 14 per cent in the previous year. In the last 6 months of the 1976 calendar year the consumer price index increased by 8.3 per cent against 6.4 per cent in the equivalent 6 months of 1975. Forty thousand more people are unemployed in February 1977 than were unemployed in February 1976. So much for competent economic management! 
The deficit upon which the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and even more the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  attached so much importance in 1976 has just hit a record $5.5 billion. It is $1 billion higher than it was 12 months ago when, according to the Treasurer and Prime Minister it was disastrous and was leading Australia into financial and economic chaos. It is $1 billion higher than it was when they said that. What has been the Government's reaction to this clear, objective evidence of incompetence? I:i assessing it it has displayed all the objectivity of a Stalinist rewriting Russian history. It has adopted the view that problems can be solved or defined out of existence by redefining reality. The Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  says that unemployment figures are a 'myth'. He and the Prime Minister said that 80 000 people who are currently in receipt of unemployment benefits left their previous employment voluntarily, the implication of that statement being that 80 000 fewer people are unemployed than the figures show. For that argument to have any validity the 80 000 jobs that those people apparently left voluntarily would still have to be available. 
We were told by a previous  speaker  in this debate on the Government side that farmers, many of whom have low income problems, want an assurance from society that they are wanted, that they are of value and that they have some dignity. What sort of assurance did the people who are unemployed, the 40 000 extra victims of this Government's economic policies, receive from the people who control this Government? What they receive, far from an assurance of being wanted, of having some dignity and of being entitled to have some self respect, is a continual campaign of vilification aimed at identifying them as dole bludgers and as the cause of the nation's economic problems instead of the victims of this Government's economic incompetence. 
The Treasurer assures us that no matter what the consumer price index shows the underlying trend in inflation is downwards. He talks about a Medibank blip for the December quarter. He says we must ignore that. In March there will be a devaluation blip. In June there will be a further devaluation blip compounded by previous blips. Through all this the Treasurer blithely assures us that the underlying trend in inflation is downwards. Of course the underlying trend in inflation is downwards provided that all the components of the consumer price index, which are in the opposite direction, are excluded from that calculation. That is a tautological exercise that the Treasurer has worked out. His euphemistic reference to the Medibank blip certainly prompts the question after the first and second devaluation blips, compounded by factors caused by the previous blips: 'When will a series of blips become an underlying trend?' In the judgment or the reasoning process of this Treasurer, presumably never. 
I heard a funny story the other day about Uganda. I understand that the well known ruler of Uganda,  Colonel or  General Amin, decreed that inflation in Uganda had been solved. He solved inflation by saying that all prices which have increased will be ignored. Therefore, once the arbitrary decision has been made that any price increases will not be considered there is only one way for inflation or prices to go. That is downwards. It seems as though we are about to apply the Ugandan situation to the Australian scene.  Senator Messner  displayed in one small area more perspicacity than most of his colleagues do when he was discussing the effects of growing mineral exports on the Australian economy and the pressures that had generated with structural change. He castigated the Whitlam Government for being unaware of these pressures for structural change which were already intensifying problems for manufacturing industry. I find it supremely ironic that  Senator Messner  or any member of this Government should castigate any other government for not being conscious of the effects of growing mineral exports and the associated capital inflow into Australia. I seem to remember that in late 1971, when the McMahon Government was in power and clearly these very factors which  Senator Messner  identified were exerting powerful pressures for a revaluation of the Australian dollar, the McMahon Government caved in to Country Party pressure, as Liberal governments always do, and refused to revalue the dollar. As a direct consequence of that grossly irresponsible decision, nearly $2 billion of foreign capital poured into Australia in the next calendar year and the money supply was exploding at an annual rate of 34 per cent at the end of 1 972. 

 Senator Messner postulated that all the economic problems are due to Labor Party supporters who have been talking down the economy. He said how deplorable it was that the former Treasurer,  Mr Hayden,  said in September that Blind Freddie could see that the dollar would be devalued. He did not tell us that at the same time the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  was saying that there was no room for complacency about the balance of payments. He did not bother to mention that the Cabinet discussions of November 1975, at which the fact that the Prime Minister was soft on devaluation emerged, were promptly leaked by one or more members of the Fraser Cabinet to the Press and were published in the Melbourne  Age  on 9 November. He did not bother to tell us that. He did not bother to mention either that, even after one of those Ministers had thoughtfully leaked the fact that the Prime Minister was soft on devaluation and therefore that the dollar would be devalued in the not too distant future, this Government then gave the speculators 13 working days in which to take capital out of the country. When the Treasurer finally announced the devaluation decision, he had the audacity to talk about taking the country to the cleaners. 

 Senator Messner seems to think that it is the Labor Party's fault-the Opposition's fault- that the economy refuses to respond to the expertise which is being brought to bear upon it by this Government. Is it surprising that the economy refuses to respond when the person who is making all the crucial economic decisions- I mean the Prime Minister- bewails the fact that machines are replacing men in industry, as he did in the House of Representatives 2 weeks ago, when his Government introduced, at massive cost to the revenue, a 40 per cent investment allowance designed to encourage precisely that and when his Government subsidises the substitution of capital for labour or, to put it in his terms, of machines for men and then deplores the fact that the very trend that the Government is encouraging at great cost to the revenue via the investment allowance is becoming apparent? 
On the same day the Prime Minister, when discussing tariff protection, said that it is quite unreal to compare Australia with countries like Sweden because one has to remember that Australia, unlike Sweden, is at the end of long transport routes and that therefore its industry requires higher protection than does industry in Sweden. Any high school economics student who failed to grasp the significance of being at the end of long transport routes and who failed to grasp the significance of what economists call natural protection and to realise that, other things being equal, import competing industries which are at the end or which provide a market at the end of long transport routes require not more but less protection, would richly deserve to fail. We have a Prime Minister, who is dictating economic policy, pouring out his monumental ignorance of the subject in the House of Representatives. Yet  Senator Messner  says that it is the Labor Party's fault that the economy has failed to respond to the expertise which is being brought to bear upon it by this Government. 
If we look to the future are the prospects any brighter? The puerile document which the Queen was forced to read in this chamber yesterday certainly gave no indication that that will be the case. It is apparent that the Queen was shocked by the puerility of the document that she was forced to read because in reading the second sentence of it she made the most unusual error or reversing words-she made a sort of dyslexic error-and referred to the twenty-fifth reign of her year. No doubt that was a manifestation of the shock which the Queen felt and the insult which she must have thought was being handed out to her by being forced to read the document which she read yesterday. 
Looking at the likely deficit for the next financial year, which this Government- rather the Leader of this Government and its Treasurerasserted throughout 1975 was crucially important, it is impossible, even if one takes into consideration the Treasurer's originality in accountancy principles and the use in the last Budget of accountancy techniques which, if used by com- [&gt;any directors in a report to shareholders would and those directors in jail, to see the deficit in the next financial year doing anything but going upwards, mainly because this Government has closed off so many of its options. Firstly, the cost to revenue of its investment allowances and the indexation of company stocks, both of which are firm decisions that have been announced by the Government and one of which already exists in legislative form, will be $950m on the Government's estimates. It has passed legislation to index personal taxation to the increase in the consumer price index for the year ended March 1977. For the year ended March 1977 the consumer price index will have increased by something more than 16 per cent. The consequences of the indexation of income tax on that basis, unless wages increase across the spectrum by at least 16 per cent, or unless discretionary changes are made to the tax schedule will be a decline in Government revenue from personal taxation. I suspect that what the Government will in fact do is introduce a completely new schedule designed to disguise the fact that it will be increasing personal taxation. As my colleague  Senator Grimes  has mentioned, the Government has passed legislation to index to the CPI social service payments, pensions and the unemployment benefit. Unless it goes back on that pre-election undertakinganother pre-election undertaking- the cost of those social service payments will increase by the full increase in the CPI. So unless there is a recovery in employment or in general economic activity- there is no sign of that happening in the foreseeable future- the deficit must go even higher unless Government expenditure is heavily cut yet again. Given the Government's existing commitment to heavy increases in defence expenditure, it is highly improbable- it is virtually impossible- that that will be done. Certainly if there are further significant cuts in Government expenditure in areas other than defence, the consequence of that will be even higher unemployment. 
It is ironic that so many of the problems which currently confront this Government on the question of the indexation of taxes, the indexation of social security payments and the current wage case which is before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission can be directly traced to the Government's decision on Medibank. Whether it was because of ideological bigotry or because of a desire to provide a captive clientele for the self perpetuating oligarchs who run the private health funds and support the Liberal Party, this Government made a conscious and deliberate decision to introduce a health insurance levy- a Medibank levy- which could be avoided by people who chose instead to pay a premium to a private insurance fund. Because the levy was struck in that way, inevitably it was recorded in the consumer price index. The Government knew very well at the time it made the decision that that would be the case. It now seems to be postulating that because so many of its problems and so much of the increase in the CPI are due to its policy on Medibank, it should be absolved from all blame and all responsibility. That is comparable to saying that premeditated murder is less reprehensible than an accidental killing. 
A previous  speaker  mentioned something about agriculture. As in almost every other area, the agricultural outlook today is gloomier than it was 1 5 months ago. According to the Treasurer's Budget Speech the farm sector was on the brink of collapse. It is in a significantly worse position now than it was when the Treasurer made that statement. Farm incomes continue to fall. Apart from short term factors, there are 2 underlying reasons why this is happening. Firstly, there is a cost-price squeeze on commercial agriculture throughout the world. That is not new. It has been in progress for almost the entire last 100 years. But as well as that continuing pressure on farm incomes because of the cost-price squeeze- I will not go into the technical reasons why there is a cost-price squeeze- structural changes have occurred in the Australian economy which have weakened the competitive position of Australian farmers vis-a-vis farmers in other countries. Those structural changes have been caused by the rapid expansion of mineral exports in the late 1960s and early 1970s. That has affected the exchange rate of the Australian dollar. That relates to a point made by  Senator Messner. 
One could speculate endlessly about whether a greater than proportional growth in mineral exports will continue. My view is that, for a number of reasons, mineral export growth of the magnitude that we saw in the decade ending 1974 is not likely to recur. We could speculate about growing mineral exports being offset by an increased crude oil import bill. We could even speculate again that that second factor might be offset by exports of natural gas from the northwest shelf or by exports of uranium. But all that is speculative and at this stage in the debate it is relatively unimportant. 
The changes which have occurred already in the structure of the Australian economy have severely and adversely worsened the terms of trade of Australian farmers and those changes almost certainly are permanent. I can well understand the acute embarrassment of the National Country Party as its traditional supporters become aware of this fact, as they become aware of the fact that rapid growth in the mining sector or in mineral exports has substantially worsened the competitive position of Australian farmers. 
-I will deal with that remark shortly. The National Country Party has attempted to wear 2 hats. It has attempted to say: 
We look after the farmers and we look after the miners and their interests are the same'. Anyone who has a level of economic comprehension which exceeds that of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack would realise- this was even published as a general hypothesis long ago- that mining and agriculture are highly competitive. They are more highly competitive than any other 2 sectors. Anyone who - has the faintest idea of a market economy would realise that every sector is in perpetual competition with every other sector. Apparently  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's comprehension of the subject has not reached that level. 
In a minute I will quote to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack the words of a couple of other people for whom he might have some respect, if he can understand what they said. One can understand the acute embarrassment of the National Country Party as farmers become aware of this fact and as they realise, in particular, that if uranium exports of the magnitude that some people forecast actually materialise- exports worth a billion dollars a year- those adverse pressures will intensify. Farmers who ignore the new reality that the low farm incomes are caused by short term factors, in some cases the continuing cost price squeeze and, uniquely to Australia, substantial changes in the structure of the Australian economy that occurred in the last decade, are headed for trouble, and politicians who encourage them to ignore them are as irresponsible and dangerous as the politicians who predicted in 1973 that demand for beef would rise so fast that we would be flat out trying to keep up with it and asserted that there was an urgent need to increase production. They are the same politicians and their names are Sinclair and Anthony. 
I am sorry that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has moved out of the chamber because the 2 quotations I am about to deliver might have improved his comprehension. They might have enabled him to understand the simple fact that rapid growth in mineral exports in the decade ending 1974 seriously and adversely affected the terms of trade for Australian agriculture. The first academic article on this subject was written by  Dr Bob  Gregory and published in the  Australian Journal of Agricultural Economics  in August last. 

If I wished I could quote a letter from  Dr Gregory  in which he repudiated that article in the  Australian,  if that is what the honourable senator is talking about. This is what  Dr Gregory  said: 
It is estimated, on the best available estimates of demand and supply price elasticities for exports and imports, that the effect of the rapid growth of mineral exports on the rural exporting industries is approximately equal to the effect, in the absence of the mineral exports, of a doubling of the tariff level. 
That is a quotation from an article by  Dr Gregory  which was described in  News Weekly  as a scholary thesis.  News Weekly  went on to make a number of false assertions which will probably become the subject of litigation in the not too distant future.  Dr Miller, Deputy  Director of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, focused on  Dr Gregory's  calculations. It was only  Dr Gregory's  calculations which were important. He attempted to quantify the magnitude of the change in the structure of the economy, agricultural and manufacturing.  Dr Miller  then focused particularly on  Dr Gregory's  analysis of agriculture. In this quotation he explicity refutes the line being pedalled by  Mr Sinclair  and his ilk, that the income problem of Australian farmers today was caused entirely by inflation.  Dr Miller  wrote this: 
However when we in Australia do again achieve a high level of economic activity at low rates of inflation, pressures for currency appreciation seem likely to emerge. This would be particularly true if strong growth resumed in the mineral sector. The production and export of high value minerals such as uranium could provide additional stimulus to any tendency to balance of payments surplus. 
Of course, a balance of payments surplus ultimately generates pressures for further revaluations of the Australian dollar, for declines in the export prices of Australian agricultural commodities expressed in terms of the Australian dollar, and then, because so many domestic prices are linked to or controlled by export parity, domestic prices for agricultural products also fall. 
In the few minutes that remain I want to comment on the new federalism. The Premiers, particularly those who are very slow to grasp the implications of new federalism, finally realised a fortnight ago what new federalism is all about. I give the Government credit for being honest enough to state quite explicitly that what new federalism is about is making the State governments responsible for raising the revenue that they spend. In particular, it envisages or entails phasing out specific purpose payments to the States and forcing the States to fund those areas of expenditure previously funded by specific purpose payments. One of those specific purpose payments, a very significant one, relates to road funds. A fortnight ago the Federal Government began to implement that new federalism policy when it reduced in real terms, by 8 per cent, specific purpose payments to the States for the next financial year for road construction and maintenance. That first instalment of the reality of the new federalism brought a bitter complaint from  Sir Charles  Court, Premier of Western Australia, in which he said that the Federal Government was forcing Western Australia to increase its expenditure on roads by 77 per cent above that in 1974 when in the same period the Federal Government had increased its contribution by only 13 per cent.  His  figures were quite correct. That is what new federalism is all about. The intention of new federalism is to phase out the specific purpose payments altogether. We only have the first instalment now.  Sir Charles  Court, who apparently could not grasp that very simple fact, is now bitterly complaining that he has the first instalment of it. 
Yes, as my Leader says, it serves him right. All that  Sir Charles  Court seems to be able to see is, first of all, that new federalism gave him an opportunity to increase his personal power. Secondly, he believed that the general revenue grants or what are now called the tax sharing arrangements would continue to increase and offset the phasing out of specific purpose payments. For a couple of years it will not decline unless the Government breaks yet another undertaking. But project this forward a little further to the time when specific purpose payments have been phased out altogether, as the Government has stated it intends to do. Consequently the Federal Government's need for tax revenue will decline and income tax collections will fall. The States' share of the general revenue grant or the tax sharing arrangements will fall with it. Hopefully if  Sir Charles  Court is still around he will not be Premier of Western Australia, but eventually he might begin to realise that point. Hopefully, perhaps even the  West Australian  newspaper might get around to publishing the facts on this subject instead of publishing the erroneous assertions of the Premier. I did not hear all the speakers in this debate but I heard  Senator Tehan  on the sanctity of marriage and the threat to social cohesion implicit in marriage breakdowns. I find it supremely ironic that so many people who share  Senator Tehan  's views on marriage breakdowns can simultaneously eulogise the encumbent ViceRegal couple. 
I direct a question to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. It concerns the Government's proposed reduction of about 8 per cent in real terms in road grants to the States. I ask: Is the road funds reduction policy an integral part of the Government's new federalism policy, that is, the policy of phasing out specific purpose payments to the States and making the State governments more responsible for raising the moneys they spend? 
I direct my question to  Senator Carrick,  the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. It concerns his reply to  Senator Wriedt  's question on 10 March in which he stated, on the subject of specific purpose payments to the States: 
The inference in his question is that there should always be an increase. That is nonsense. 
Is this a tacit admission that grants have been reduced and that this is consistent with Government policy? If so, will he now withdraw the unequivocal assurance he gave, in answer to a question on 27 April 1976, that total payments to the States, that is general purpose grants plus specific purpose payments, would increase in the 3 years 1976 to 1978 by more than they increased in the 3 years 1973 to 1975; that is, by more than 58 per cent in constant value dollars? Will he apologise for misleading the Senate on 27 April? 
I present 4 petitions, similar in wording, from 32,28,21 and 1 1 citizens: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 percent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long term policy should be to provide SO per cent of all funding for Australia 's roads. 
That at the minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5,903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
Petitions received. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it a fact that the original credentials given last March to Ambassador-designate Hill for presentation in Dublin were addressed to  President  Childers, who had been dead for more than a year? Were the credentials signed by the Queen? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: In view of  Mr Sinclair's  statement issued last Tuesday that 'it was important for wool growers to be confident of the determined backing of the minimum price as they continued to face ever increasing cost burdens', should we assume that it is Government policy to determine the minimum price by production cost movements and not by market demand? If not, why did the Minister mislead wool growers by implying that the Government would support a so-called cost of production floor price? 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, has been provoked by photographs on the front pages of last Friday's Melbourne newspapers and also yesterday's antireferendum statement from  Sir Robert  Menzies. When this same  Sir Robert  Menzies told the House of Representatives on 29 April 1965 that the Australian Government was in receipt of a request from the Government of South Vietnam for further military assistance, was he lying? Did the Pentagon papers establish that he was lying? Was his lie to the Parliament ultimately responsible for the death of 493 Australian servicemen in Vietnam including 202 conscripts? 
Two weeks ago the annual conference of the Farmers' Union of Western Australia (Inc.) carried a motion of no confidence in the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  In bringing the motion a sectional vice-president disputed Bob Hawke 's jocular comment that Australia was governed by 5 farmers and a sheep. The vice  president  said that the truth of the matter was that Australia was governed by 4 farmers, a sheep and a goat. He went on to identify the goat as the Minister for Primary Industry. Last week the  president  of the Graziers' Association of New South Wales told the leader of the National Country Party of Australia,  Mr Anthony,  that he had better regulate the growth and expansion of the mining industry in order to protect farmers. The agricultural Press, which is normally little more than an adjunct of the Country Party's public relations machine, has carried headlines like: 'Sinclair get out'. The letter pages are bursting with criticisms of the Minister's prevarication of wool marketing and meat marketing reform. Incidentally, that latter criticism of meat marketing reform has been implicitly endorsed by  Mr 
Sinclair's own Country Party leader who, on 6 March, stated that buyers, that is cattle buyers, had the capacity to pay more than they had been paying recently. He asserted that benefits from devaluation had been largely appropriated by meat exporters and that the livestock market could well return prices $ 10 to $20 a head higher to the farmer. Given  Mr Sinclair's  refusal to accept industry demands for a marketing corporation with sufficient market power to prevent that sort of expropriation of higher world prices by exporters,  Mr Anthony's  statement has to be seen as a censure and as an expression of no confidence in the Minister for Primary Industry. 
The reason for all these discordant noises within the Country Party and between the Country Party and assorted farmers' organisations is quite simple. Farm income has fallen rapidly and consistently since its peak in 1973-74. It continues to fall in spite of devaluation and regardless of the fact that the Government of Australia has changed. Farmers who were seduced by the Country Party's fraudulent claims in opposition that farm problems originated with the Australian Labor Party and with what it called the Whitlam caused inflation are justifiably angry at this Government's failure to deliver the cargo when it promised that these problems would disappear once Labor was replaced. The farmers are angry and confused. Very few farmers understand the market forces which continue to erode farm income. Not only has this Government failed to produce a coherent agricultural policy but also it has exacerbated the problem by consistently and deliberately misleading farmers about the cause of their problems and about appropriate responses. Every major speech delivered in the last 3 months or 4 months by the present Minister for Primary Industry contains this fallacious passage: 
The Whitlam-inspired high inflation rates hurt the people in the rural sectors more than anybody else, and crippled the farmers' ability to compete against alternate suppliers in overseas markets. 
This argument is fallacious on several grounds. Firstly, inflation was roaring away in 1973 under the stimulus of fiscal policies inherited from the McMahon Government and external influences. More important in this context is the fact that domestic inflation, at least when exchange rates are flexible, has played only a minor role in eroding the comparative and competitive position of Australian exporters. The crucial factor in recent years is structural change within the Australian economy. This Government has a vested electoral interest in perpetuating farmers' ignorance of the structural change and its implications. For nearly all of the last 100 years there has been a global cost price squeeze on commercial agriculture. The squeeze can be modified or exacerbated by Government actions. It can be temporarily reversed by commodity shortages, droughts and seasonal factors. But it always reasserts itself in the longer term and it will almost certainly continue to do so. It is caused by many factors but principally by severe quantitative limits on the consumption of agricultural product in commercial markets and by productivity changes within the agricultural sector and in other sectors. It is an almost inevitable by-product of the process of economic growth and rising real incomes. It applies most severely to those agricultural sectors which do not or cannot develop technologies to increase productivity as distinct from production at the rate demanded by market forces. Principally those industries in Australia which cannot keep up are dairying and horticulture. Productivity gains which are a cause of the cost price squeeze also provide a means of overcoming it. Industries which cannot keep up must decline in terms of the volume of production and the labour force in agriculture as a whole must decline. 
Until the last few years Australian agriculture on the whole coped with and adjusted to the cost-price squeeze. We maintained our competitive position  vis-a-vis  farmers overseas, especially in those areas such as grain growing, meat and wool production where Australia has significant comparative advantages. However, in recent years the pressures for change have intensified. The source of these new intensified pressures is the growth of the mining industry and its effect on the exchange rate of the Australian dollar, on prices in Australian dollars of agricultural exports and, in some respects, on domestic prices. This Government, and especially the National Country Party, has a vested interest in suppressing recognition of that fact because the National Country Party has peddled to farmers and miners the line that the economic interests of farmers and miners are identical, that their common enemies are city bludgers and greedy trade unionists and that the National Country Party will protect both of them. It is scarcely possible for any analysis to be further from the truth. 
With a miniscule number of exceptions, which are usually related to what economists call externalities, every sector of a market economy and every producer in every sector is in perpetual competition, which is a euphemism for economic conflict, with every other sector. Recognition of that fact goes back at least as far as Adam Smith in 1 776. Anyone who has a basic comprehension of the principles of the market economy, a category which regrettably seems to exclude the most vociferous propagandists of the system, has always known that this is so. The conflict of interest between agriculture and mining in Australia is particularly sharp because both are export oriented. I make no claim to be especially prescient in this area but almost 2 years ago I published a document in which that was stated. 
Recently  Dr R.  G. Gregory has appeared on the scene with an article which made him a celebrity. Gregory did not discover intersectoral competition.  His  article which was published last August was significant because in it he attempted for the first time to quantify the effects on agriculture 's terms of trade and manufacturers ' terms of trade of the 2 billion dollars a year increase in mineral exports which was recorded in the decade ending 1974. Gregory's conclusion, startling to many but to my knowledge not seriously disputed, was that this mineral export growth had effects on agriculture equivalent to a doubling of the Australian tariff. Naturally the manufacturing sector was also adversely affected. Gregory was followed by  Dr Geoff  Miller, the  deputy  director of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in an article which focused on Gregory's conclusions with respect to agriculture and which was published in the  Australian Economic Review  at the end of last year. 
Miller pointed out that some sectors of agriculture, and especially grain growing, had until then been insulated from the full effects of the new reality caused by mining industry growth by post 1972 commodity shortages which have now been largely overcome. Other sectors, particularly horticulture in respect of which the apple industry is a case in point, had felt the full brunt of the structural change and its financial penalties. So, in addition to the normal or long term stresses imposed on Australian agriculture by the global cost-price squeeze, the competitive position of Australian exporters  vis-a-vis  exporters in other countries has been seriously eroded by structural change within Australia and not by inflation although the latter has marginally aggravated the problem. If mining exports continue to grow at a rapid rate the pressures will intensify further. But it is essential to recognise that the changes which have already taken place have unleashed irresistible pressures for adjustment which means contraction in agriculture and in manufacturing. 
Gregory's article provoked considerable discussion in the quality Press and ultimately the Murdoch Press became involved in a manner  which was consistent with the standards of accuracy and political objectivity which it had established in the latter half of 1975. In the  Australian  of 12 February an article written by John Hallows was published. It was introduced on the front page as 'The Guru's Message is Muddled', which was a reference to a number of people in the Australian Labor Party who had commented on Gregory's article. Hallows' article in the  Australian  was introduced under the heading Labor's money men embrace the Gregory thesis but John Hallows finds out that they don't quite understand it'. I will not read the whole of this article but will take 3 extracts from the first 5 paragraphs, and it is important to note that they are from the first 5 paragraphs. The extracts read: 
Labor Party critics of all-out mining development in Australia are jumping rapidly aboard a new bandwagon . . . 
This weekend there may be tremendous embarrassment as a result- the driver of the bandwagon says he is not going in that direction at all . . . 
For, according to Gregory- speaking by phone from the U.S.- the 'Gregory Thesis' means just about the opposite of what Hurford suggests. 
Hallows' article has been quoted with approval by Liberal senators in this chamber and by a scurrilous rag called  News Weekly  which is published by one B. A. Santamaria, that latterday sooler who arranged to have himself sprung from the Army when Australia was under attack in the 1940s to organise a fruit harvest in the Murray Valley, a job for which his city breeding and status as a law student no doubt qualified him. Hallows' article has ironically been repudiated by Gregory himself and the Murdoch Press has been hoist on its own petard. On 21 February Gregory wrote to the shadow Treasurer,  Mr Hurford.  I have a copy of that letter and I seek leave to incorporate it. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-  Is leave granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTLeave is granted. 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 60201 
Department of Economics February21, 1977 

 Mr C. Hurford Member of Parliament Canberra, A.C.T. Australia Dear Chris: 
I have just received Hallows article in the  Australian.  I must say that the area for confusion in the press appears to be very great. The first five paragraphs seem to be very unfair to you and me. After these paragraphs the article is not too bad although I can 't follow at all the last paragraph. 
I hope my talking to Hallows on the phone has not caused you too much difficulty. It was good to hear an Australian voice, good to hear news from home, and I did ask him not to quote me. I was not dumbfounded to hear of the interpretation of my article but rather surprised at the publicity I was receiving. I seemed to have lost all round by Hallows piece. I lost a child (I have 4 not 3-I don't know where he got the biographical details), I opposed Hurford and Uren and finally I accuse the government of contradictory policies. If this continues immigration may not let me return. 
I read your letter in the  Financial Review  and our views seem to be very close. The  Australian  seems very intent to confuse the issues.  Mr Uren  seems fully aware that he is going much further than I would. As you know my article was written to: 
put tariff changes and past exchange rate changes in perspective and 
point out the futility of trying to stop adjustments, i.e. all sectors of the economy could not be pleased simultaneously. 
I did not discuss where the adjustments to the mineral discoveries should fall and I referred to that as a separate question. I don't see how Hallows could say that you don 't understand my piece or that you and I are going in opposite directions. 
Whether we should in fact try to slow the mineral discoveries is a difficult question. My article is a part of the answer in that it focusses on some of the effects but there are a number of other issues, e.g. what is going to happen to the balance of payments, how much will the mineral discoveries increase the wealth of Australia, what are the real costs of adjustments (perhaps industries adjust easily) and finally what is ones moral view on uranium. 
Best regards, Bob Gregory 
I thank the Minister and the Senate. I quote 3 extracts from the letter. It is addressed to  Mr Hurford,  and dated 2 1 February, on the letterhead of the Northwestern University at Evanston, Illinois, in the United States of America. It states: 
Dear Chris: 
I have just received Hallows' article in the  Australian.  I must say that the area for confusion in the Press appears to be very great. The first 5 paragraphs seem to be very unfair - 
They are the paragraphs from which I have quoted: 
. to you and me. After these paragraphs the article is not too bad although I can't follow at all the last paragraph. 
I hope my talking to Hallows on the phone has not caused you too much difficulty. It was good to hear an Australian voice, good to hear news from home, and I did ask him not to quote me. 
Incidentally, he did- 
I was not dumbfounded to hear of the interpretation of my article but rather surprised at the publicity I was receiving. 
Further on in the letter,  Mr Gregory  continues: 
I read your letter in the  Financial Review  and our views seem to be very close. The  Australian  seems very intent to confuse the issues ... As you know my article was written to: 
put tariff changes and past exchange rate changes in perspective and 
point out the futility of trying to stop adjustments, i.e. all sectors of the economy could not be pleased simultaneously. 
I did not discuss where the adjustments to the mineral discoveries should fall and I referred to that as a separate question. I don 't see how Hallows could say that you don 't understand my piece or that you and I are going in opposite directions. 
In seeking to deny the ramifications of mining industry growth, this Government is not only in error, it is also in sin because it is wicked to mislead farmers in the manner that the Government is doing. To recognise the new reality is not to vilify the mining industry. Mining growth, although for various reasons we may question the optimum rate of growth, does provide a potential to increase the material welfare of all Australians provided the appropriate adjustments are made. Unless Australia becomes a major capital exporter, the only viable adjustment is to increase imports and /or decrease other exports. It entails either shrinkage of the agricultural and manufacturing sectors or growth of the tertiary sector. But such adjustments are unlikely to take place under this Government because its economic policy is dictated by the whims of one man whose economic views are based not on rational analysis but on political ideology. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  believes that farmers, manufacturers and minerspeople who grow things, make things or dig them up- are the only productive workers. Everyone else is a parasite or a bludger. In the Prime Minister's view, productive workers deserve government encouragement and financial assistance. Mining companies get tax concessions. Farmers get subsidies but not too many because that represents government spending. Manufacturers get higher tariffs and other forms of hidden protection. Of course, they all get a handout from devaluation. That approach has failure built into it. Mining industry growth will build up overseas reserves unless more imports offset them. If the imports are excluded, reserves will accumulate and either generate domestic inflation or force a revaluation of the Australian dollar. Either way sections of the manufacturing and agricultural industries cannot maintain their competitive position unless ever increasing levels of government assistance are provided. At this stage, this seems to be what is happening. 
Although it has not explicitly said so, this Government has embarked upon a policy of progressively providing higher tariff protection for manufacturing industry and in various ways. If that policy is continued it will intensify even more the adjustment burden which mining industry growth has imposed upon agriculture. This foolish attempt, manifested in the Government's present policy to resist market forces which cannot be resisted, is certain to fail. As its failure becomes apparent, even to today's misinterpreters of economic statistics and economic reality, I fear that this Government in desperation will again devalue the Australian dollar about the end of this year and push Australia into a vicious devaluation-inflation vortex. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and arises from a speech made by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to the Rural Press Club on 10 March, in which he stated: 
It remains the general policy of the Government that no assistance to industry will be given without prior resort to the inquiry procedures specified in the Industries Assistance Commission Act. 
Does this mean that the Government has abandoned its Ministerial Review Committee procedure for providing additional secret protection for Australian firms tendering for Government contracts, which was outlined in an  Australian Financial Review  editorial headed 'A Licence to Steal ' on 4 October? How many times has the Ministerial Review Committee met? Is the Minister the convenor of that Committee? How many decisions have been made? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President,  and arises from the statement you made last Thursday, which can be found on page 502 of  Hansard,  concerning articles published last week in the Melbourne  Age.  I ask: Do you believe that the document was stolen from  Senator Sim's  office? Was it imputed or was it your intention to impute in your statement that  Mr Walker  of the  Age  stole the document? If so, what evidence supports that imputation? If not, can it be made clear that  Mr Walker  is exonerated? Finally, does your statement imply that the media should be prevented from publishing or commenting upon confidential documents which have been leaked or purloined, or at least that the media if it publishes such documents should be expelled from Parliament House? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I draw his attention to these facts: The 1976 Budget Papers estimated the cost to revenue of the 40 per cent investment allowance in 1 977-78 to be $600m. In the last couple of months the Treasurer and his  deputy  have stated that it will be $500m. And the official text of the Prime Minister's address to a Liberal Party dinner in Sydney on 4 April last states that it will be $450m. I ask: Does the difference between the original estimate of $600m and the present estimate of $450m mean that the allowance has failed to stimulate investment as the Government expected? If not, what is the explanation? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Will the sum, which I understand to be about $688,000, which was raised and placed in trust by the Spastic Welfare Association of Western Australia for the proposed  Sir David  Brand centre for handicapped children, be matched by a $4 for $1 government contribution in 1977-78 or in subsequent years? If not, what government contribution, if any, is or will be available? 
-I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether it is correct, as stated in today's  Age,  that Cabinet decided last week to cut textile import quotas by 50 per cent. If so, why has the decision not been announced? Is it because the decision, which would facilitate price increases by domestic manufacturers, is in conflict with the Government's stated price and wage freeze objectives? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Is it correct, as stated by  Mr Ashton  in the  Australian Financial Review  on 5 April last, that the Australian Wool Corporation sought to borrow funds overseas to finance its stockpile at a much lower rate of interest than the 1 1 .5 per cent paid to the Government? At what rate of interest could the Corporation have obtained funds from overseas? Did the Government prevent the Corporation from borrowing overseas? If so, why. 
I wish to speak briefly of an anomaly in the regulations governing the payment of tertiary student allowances. The specific case concerns a  Mr Howard  Smith, an elector of Western Australia, but presumably other students have been similarly affected in the past and are likely to be similarly affected in the future unless the regulation is changed. I wrote to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  on 8 March and received a substantive reply on 1 5 April.  Mr Smith  was a trainee teacher bonded to the Education Department of Western Australia. He completed 2 years of a 3-year training course and received an allowance from the Department for the 2 years to 30 December 1976. In December 1976 he notified the State Education Department of his intention to transfer to Murdoch University to undertake a history and economics course, and became a fulltime student this year. The State Education Department did not terminate its bond until 9 March 1 977.  Mr Smith  did not receive the training allowance from the Western Australian Department of Education from 30 December to 9 March because he was no longer continuing with teacher training, and he did not receive any assistance under the Student Assistance Act of 1973 because regulation 34 ( 1 ) (c) states that a person is not eligible for assistance if he is a party to a training agreement. For that 10-week period between 30 December 1976 and 9 March 1977  Mr Smith  fell between 2 stools, so to speak, and received no allowance from either State or Federal sources. 
It seems quite clear that regulation 34(1) (c) was designed to prevent double payments of student training allowances from different authorities and of course, as such, is fully justifiable. But I doubt very much that it was intended that it should apply in this case when payment under one training agreement had been terminated but because the agreement had not been formally terminated the person was precluded from obtaining the Commonwealth assistance to which he would have been entitled had the agreement with the State authority been terminated and to which he was entitled and in fact did receive after 9 March. So I ask the Minister to give some consideration to this regulation with a view to framing some appropriate amendment that would enable a person in a case such as this and persons in the future who may be affected in this way to receive the training allowance, which I think the intention of the Act requires. I realise that there may be difficulties in setting a precedent here but I also ask the Minister to consider making an  ex gratia  payment in this case for the 10 weeks from 30 December. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Given the Treasurer's repeated exhortations to restrict Government assistance to the really needy, does the Government intend to cancel the Prime Minister's $5000 a year superphosphate bounty? 
-The Commonwealth Bureau of Roads (Repeal) Bill repeals the Bureau of Roads Act 1 964 with a view to incorporating the functions of the Bureau into the Bureau of Transport Economics which, in turn, is a division of the Department of Transport. While there is a good deal to be said for the creation of a body which is able to take an overview of the broad question of transport, it is important that such a body retain its independence, its ability to give independent advice, and to make independent assessments of transport problems and convey them to the public. It is precisely that assurance which the Government will not give about this Bill. On 1 5 February my colleague,  Mr Morris,  in the House of Representatives sought from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  an assurance that studies conducted by and recommendations of the Bureau of Transport Economics would not be intercepted or censored by the Department or by the Minister before they became available to the public. The Minister's response to that request fell very far short of a guarantee that such interception would not take place. 
When we look at the record of this Government in general and of this particular Minister we have absolutely no confidence that such independent functions will be permitted to the Bureau of Transport Economics. For example, because the Minister has discretion in these matters, even under the existing Bureau of Roads Act, he has not released 2 reports or 2 studies conducted by the Bureau of Roads in 1976. On 9 October 1976 this Government decided that it would legislate less and regulate more. At the same time or a week later it established what it called the Ministerial Review Committee. This is an organisation which will vet and adjust contracts to supply government stores. It will operate to provide additional secret and unqualified protection to Australian industry. As the  Australian Financial Review  succinctly described this proposal in an October editorial, it constitutes a 'licence to steal'. We have had secret investigations conducted by  Sir Henry  Bland, secret investigations into Medibank and more recently a secret review of aviation and the McNeill Committee on government transport. All these committees of investigation or commissioned studies have been conducted in secret and the reports have never been released to the public. So, I regret to say that we can confidently expect the same secrecy once this Minister and the Government manage to incorporate the duties and responsibilities of the Bureau of Roads within the Department of Transport through the Bureau of Transport Economics. There will be the same interception and the same degree of censorship that we have seen from this Government in so many other areas. There is a powerful case for an independent bureau of transport which can take a broad overview of the whole transport question and reform or reverse existing extravagant transport practices and attitudes. 
The industrialised world somewhat belatedly has begun to realise its overwhelming dependence on petroleum products, a raw material which if present trends continue, will be exhausted within 50 years. Transport consumes 50 per cent of petroleum which is used in Australia. In the midst of this petroleum depleted world, we are about to have imposed on us Concorde which uses 3 times as much fuel a passenger mile as a Boeing 747. The attitude of the present Minister for Transport to this fuel hungry monster, this noise polluting and probably ozone destroying monster, was succinctly stated in his speech to the Australian-American Association on 1 8 March this year when he said: 
My own view is that in Concorde we have a new generation aeroplane designed to halve the travelling between Europe and the States . . . 
Speaking to the point of order, I believe that my remarks are relevant because I understand that the Government 's stated objective for this repeal Bill is to incorporate within the Department of Transport, which has a broader responsibility for transport matters, the functions formerly performed by the Bureau of Roads. So, given that this is the Government's rationale for introducing this legislation, I think it is relevant to comment upon the broad question of transport and transport economics of which the roads factor is a part. To complete the quotation,  Mr Nixon  said: 
History has shown that efforts to impede progress eventually fail. 
So this Minister regards Concorde, which uses 3 times as much fuel a passenger mile as a Boeing 747 aircraft, as progress in a petroleum depleted world. Given his attitude to that matter, who could possibly believe that a bureau of transport economics controlled by such a Minister would put before the public a rational and responsible evaluation of Concorde or anything else? 
Let me turn to domestic aviation and our much vaunted 2 airlines policy- one of our sacred cattle- where we seem to have achieved the worst of all possible results. It is a Government sponsored 'duopoly' which charges the public monopoly prices but which fritters away the potential monopoly profits by unnecessary duplication of services and wasteful and phoney non-price competition, with the whole operation subsidised by the taxpayers to the extent of $60m or $70m a year. Some might say that in an affluent society this does not matter. But, given the wastage of fuel which is innately associated with the operation of Australian domestic aviation, I suggest that it does matter. Things like that cannot be properly measured by conventional economic criteria. For example, normally 4 flights leave Perth for the eastern States twice daily. They leave within 60 minutes of each other at midday and midnight. Sometimes there are only 3 nights at night. So, we normally have 8 flights a day from west to east and in the reverse direction and passengers can choose whether they travel at midday or midnight. More importantly, the aircraft are frequently half full. I once flew to Sydney on a midnight flight from Perth with 14 passengers. 
-I think that they are relevant. If, as a rationale for this Bill, the Government is suggesting that, by incorporating the Bureau of Roads in the Bureau of Transport Economics and the Department of Transport, transport may be more effectively planned, integrated and co-ordinated in Australia, I think that my remarks are relevant because the things that already have happened in transport in Australia under the old Department of Civil Aviation, now the Department of Transport, suggests that such rationalisation, co-ordination and integration will not occur. There certainly is no evidence that under this Minister that situation is likely to change. I suggest that we would be better off with a complete monopoly in domestic aviation because no sensible monopolist would despatch three or four half-empty aircraft simultaneously as the current 'duopoly' does. I will not say any more about aircraft. 
-I will get them right back on the ground and right back home to Western Australia. 
-To Leigh Creek. I have heard something about that but I am not sure of all the details. 

 -Yes, Mr President. Interjections are highly disorderly, I understand, and one should not reply to them. An adequate and independent Bureau of Transport Economics, which this Bill will not provide, should report on the merits of public transport and on the true social cost of private alternatives. For example, if we had such a bureau I would expect it to look very critically at the development of Australia's only fully planned city, this city, Canberra, which seems to have been built and still is being built around the private motor car which seems almost certain to disappear within the next SO years. 
Unfortunately, no bureau of transport is likely to avoid the recurring inter-governmental struggles over road funds while premiers, such as the present Premier of Western Australia, are still around.  Sir Charles  Court- and this has been a controversial subject over the last couple of months- has consistently eulogised this Government's new federalism policy, the stated purpose of which is to phase out specific purpose payments such as road grants, to force the States to fund such areas of expenditure from their own revenue and to grant the States the power to impose their own income tax to fund such programs with the intention of making the States physically responsible. As I understand it, that is the stated purpose of the new federalism.  Sir Charles  Court was presented with the first instalment of this new federalism in February this year when the Federal Government revealed that there would be a cut in real terms in the amount of Federal funds allocated for roads. Following a recommendation by the old Bureau of Roads, funds to Western Australia will increase by only 3.2 per cent in the next financial year over the allocation for this financial year. In real terms that is a fall of at least 10 per cent. With the reduction in Federal funding, which was totally consistent with the present Federal Government's commitment to reducing Government expenditure and to making the States fiscally responsible for the areas over which they have administrative control, here was an excellent chance for  Sir Charles  to demonstrate in the most practical way his support for the new federalism by imposing a State income tax to meet what he asserted to be a most critical need for extra road funds. But what did he do? He reverted to type. He bellowed and shrieked at Canberra. In the  West Australian  of 28 February this year  Sir Charles  was reported as having said that he was 'totally dissatisfied and appalled at the $60. 2m allocated for 1977-78'. He was further reported as having said: 
An increase of only $1.9m in funds for 1977-78 would severely retard Western Australia's road progress. Many major projects of vital importance to the State's economy and development would have to be deferred or slowed down. This would lead to a significant increase in unemployment, which would have a serious economic effect. 
The obvious solution for  Sir Charles  Court, he being an enthusiastic supporter of reduced Federal spending and State fiscal responsibility, would have been to impose a State income tax to provide the road funds that he so stridently asserted on 28 February were essential. But he did not do that. He just said: 'Canberra has to provide more money'. Either  Sir Charles  does not understand the new federalism or he chooses to ignore it. Despite all the windy rhetoric about wanting to assume responsibility as a State Premier on behalf of a State government, it is revealed that all he really wants is Federal money in amounts which he thinks should be forthcoming and without any Federal strings. He obviously craves power without responsibility. Of course, he failed to secure any additional Federal funds. 
To cover up that dismal failure he obtained what he called a concession from the Federal Government, an agreement to reduce the mandatory provision which requires the States to expend stipulated amounts from their own revenue sources. That was reported in the  West Australian  of 14 April under the heading 'No road fund increase, but concessions'.  Sir Charles  failed to get more Federal funds and then announced his plan to spend less State funds. Obviously that can mean only that less will be spent in total. So we see that the Premier, who on 28 February stated that unless more money was obtained many major projects of vital importance to the State's economy and development would have to be deferred or slowed down, concluded a deal to spend less and then had the audacity to claim that as a victory. Of course, no Bureau of Roads or Bureau of Transport Economics can overcome such irresponsible and illogical grandstanding. I think that only a competent media could deal with that problem and a competent media, especially in the area of the printed Press, is precisely what we do not have in Perth. But if such a Bureau of Transport Economics, taking an over-view, was independent of people like  Sir Charles  and his Federal counterparts it could present to the nation a rational, integrated transport assessment. This legislation and the Government's plans which flow from it will not provide that assessment. 
In closing I just want to mention that I, like  Senator Jessop,  have received an extraordinarily high number of communications from local government authorities on this matter.  Senator Jessop  did not actually state how many local government authorities from which he had received communications were for or opposed to this proposition. I have received some 23 letters from local government authorities in Western Australia. That is the number sent to one Federal member of Parliament. No doubt many local authorities have written to other members of Parliament. All of the letters I received were opposed to this plan. The reason for their opposition was the fear that once the functions of the Bureau of Roads have been incorporated into the Department of Transport, under the supervision of and subject to the direction of the Minister, the independence which is required for road funding and for transport matters generally will cease to exist. For that reason primarily my Party is opposed to this Bill, a decision with which I fully agree. 
The matter that I wish to raise on the adjournment tonight concerns an application for immigration by a  Mr D'Leno.  The matter dates back to August 1975.  Mr D'Leno,  who is currently residing in India, was engaged to a Miss Thornton who has lived in Perth since 1975. She originally approached  Mr Berinson,  the former member for Perth in the other place, with regard to the application by her fiance,  Mr D'Leno,  to migrate to Australia from India. On 10 November 1975,  Mr Berinson  wrote to Miss Thornton stating that investigations were under way in Calcutta. I took up the case on 9 January 1976 when I wrote to the current Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  requesting him to grant an entry visa to  Mr D  'Leno, Miss Thorton 's fiance, under the appropriate provisions of the Act. The letter was formally acknowledged on 21 January 1976. On 8 April, I received a substantive reply from the Minister in which he stated that the refusal to grant the application still stood. The letter said: 

 Mr D'Leno  can at best be described as a semi-skilled factory worker and on today's unemployment situation his economic viability must be in serious doubt. 
I replied to the Minister on 13 April 1976 pointing out to him that I could not reconcile the reasons stated in his letter of 8 April with the guidelines issued by him on 25 March governing entry qualifications and in particular with guideline 2 (c) which stated: 
The present rules provide for the entry of- the fiance or fiancee of a permanent Australian resident or a person who has been accepted for permanent residence. ('Migrant' visas are not granted in these cases the visas issued being validated in the first instance for a stay of up to 6 months only. Upon production of evidence of marriage within that 6 months or an approved extension, 'resident status ' normally is granted ) 
Guideline 2 (a) issued by the Minister on 25 March 1976 stated that the present rules provide for the entry of the sponsored spouses and dependent children of permanent residents of Australia. Miss Thornton then appealed direct to the Minister on 22 April. On 3 May, the Minister acknowledged my letter. Subsequently, on 28 June, I received a letter from the then Acting Minister,  Mr Ellicott.  The letter was undated and referred to Miss Thornton as Miss Thompson, and to say the least, was a carelessly drafted letter to come from the Minister's office. This letter from the then Acting Minister,  Mr Ellicott,  stated: 
If 2 (c) is read in conjunction with item 8 you will see that there is no unconditional assurance that the entry of fiances will be approved. While fiances do not have to fulfil occupational criteria they are expected to meet all other selection requirements. 
The letter subsequently stated: 
Because of the employment history of  Mr D  'Leno and his lack of skills, he is not considered to be economically viable. 
The comment I wish to make on that statement is, firstly, that there is an obvious contradiction between the statement that fiances do not have to fulfil occupational criteria and the reason later stated in the Minister's letter that because of the employment history of  Mr D'Leno  and his lack of skills he is not considered to be economically viable. The second comment is that  Mr D'Leno  had a very stable history of employment and was in fact employed by the one company, the Britannia Biscuit Company of Calcutta, as a mechanical supervisor for 13 years. 
On 24 April 1976 I wrote again to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs,  Mr MacKellar,  disputing the reasons given by  Mr Ellicott  in his undated letter received on 28 June. On 3 September  Mr MacKellar  formally acknowledged my letter of 24 August. On 29 November Miss Thornton again wrote a personal appeal to the Minister. In the meantime, on 10 September new guidelines were issued by the Minister in which there was some modification of guideline 2 (c), the important part of the modification being that in certain instances economic viability may be required. But that seemed to have been superseded in this case by guideline 2 (a) which stated that the present rules provide for the entry of the sponsored spouses and the dependent children of permanent residents of Australia. At that time  Mr D'Leno  was not a spouse; he is now a spouse. 
On 2 December my secretary rang  Mr MacKellar's  office regarding this matter. He rang again on 7 December and on 28 February 1977. On both occasions the Minister's staff undertook to reply to these queries, but those undertakings were not honoured. On 25 March 1977 Miss Thornton advised me that she had travelled to India and had married  Mr D  'Leno. She said that she had been informed, presumably by the Minister or his representative, that there would still be a further delay before her spouse, as he then was, could obtain an entry visa to Australia. On the date, 25 March 1977, my office rang the Minister's office and advised his office of the changed circumstances between  Mr D'Leno  and Miss Thornton, namely, that they had been married. On 29 March my office sent a telegram to the Minister's office requesting a quick resolution of this matter due to the changed circumstances, namely, the marriage of Miss Thornton and  Mr D  'Leno. 
Both the guidelines which applied to this matter from 25 March 1976 and the revised guidelines of 10 September 1976 unequivocally state that the present rules provide for the entry of the sponsored spouses and dependent children of permanent residents of Australia. Whatever justification there may have been- I do not believe there was any- for the delay on this matter prior to the marriage of Miss Thornton and  Mr D'Leno  now that that marriage has taken place there can be no possible justification for further delay. I request that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  who represents the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in this chamber, convey this complaint to the Minister with a request that it be speedily resolved. The matter has been handled very badly in various ways by 2 Ministers of this Government. Firstly, the Government has failed clearly- at least at this stage- to abide by its own guidelines. Secondly, on a number of occasions members of  Mr MacKellar's  staff have treated this matter in a casual manner. Promises to reply to queries have not been honoured. There has been an inordinate delay in replying to correspondence. When  Mr MacKellar  was out of the country and when  Mr Ellicott  was the Acting Minister an undated letter was written which failed to identify Miss Thornton correctly. This matter has gone on for nearly 2 years. I appeal to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to ensure that the matter is resolved promptly and properly. 
-Does the Minister representing the Prime Minister know, as reported in the  West Australian  last Friday, that the Western Australian Premier last Thursday explicitly refused to take any action to curb a 25 per cent increase in meat prices and stated that the increase was inevitable? In so doing, was  Sir Charles  Court rejecting the Prime Minister's statement in the House of Representatives on 27 May that there ought to be no exception to the wages and prices freeze? In fact, did  Sir Charles  not opt out of the prices freeze before  Mr Dunstan  officially called off South Australian participation? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What parliamentary and ministerial pension will be paid to the late  Senator Greenwood's  family. 
) Can that allowance be reduced if the widow or family is in receipt of other income. 
What ex gratia payment has been or will be made by the Government. 
On what basis was that payment determined. 
What pension would the widow and three dependent children of a Commonwealth public servant receive from the Government. 
To what extent would that pension be reduced if the widow was in receipt of $ 10,000 a year additional income. 
What  ex gratia  payment would the Government make the Commonwealth Public Servant 's widow. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 29 March 1977: 
What percentage of employees in the textile, footwear and clothing group of industries using the most recent available figures, is located in (a) the seven capital cities, (b) Launceston, (c) Geelong, and (d) Newcastle and Wollongong. 
'We will supply the jobs Australians need' said the present Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, in glib pre and post election promises. The most serious of all the current defects of this Government is, of course, the continued deterioration in the level of employment. It is difficult to obtain meaningful comparison because the Government has manipulated deliberately a number of the variables. At the end of last year it suspended the payment of unemployment benefits to school leavers, a matter which was the subject of a debate earlier this afternoon, deliberately to deflate and understate the real level of unemployment in the DecemberJanuary period. It has abolished the seasonal adjustment formula which was used previously to give meaningful comparisons in the level of unemployment throughout the year. So, the most meaningful way in which the level of unemployment now can be compared to the level a year earlier is by a direct month by month comparison between registered numbers of unemployed in a month this year and in a month 12 months previously. This would disregard, of course, the distortion that I have mentioned already in the degree to which registrations for December and January last understated the true level of unemployment because school leavers were said at that time to be ineligible for benefits. I have a table which sets out from November 1975 to April 1976 and from November 1976 to April 1977 the registrations for numbers of registered unemployed. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 
I ask the Minister for Science: In replying to a questionnaire concerning superphosphate bounty which the Farmers' Union of Western Australia (Inc.) sent out, did he state, as reported in the  Farmers Weekly  of 12 May, that the bounty should be at least at the present level? Does he know that three of his ministerial colleagues-  Senator Carrick, Mr Killen  and  Mr Street-  all stated that under the Westminster system collective responsibility precluded them from giving undertakings which could pre-empt Government decisions? Does he reject the principle of collective responsibility as enunciated by his colleagues? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to the coalition parties' November 1975 primary industry policy promise to implement immediately the Industries Assistance Commission report on New Land Farms in Western Australia. I ask: Have any discussions been held between the Federal and State governments as required by the report? If not, when will they be held? Has the Government abandoned its promise? If not, does immediately' in this Government's lexicon mean some period longer than 18 months? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the National Country Party in the Senate and Minister for Science. I ask: Is the Minister aware of an article in the last issue of  Quadrant  in which the honourable member for Macarthur,  Mr Baume,  stated: 
The Tacts are that, but for the mining industry, the man on the land would be racing a far better future than the dismal one he now must inevitably come to terms with. 
-The honourable member for Macarthur,  Mr Michael  Baume, a member of the Liberal Party. I ask the Leader of the Country Party whether he agrees with that statement and, if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 March, 1977: 
1 ) How many (a) Class 8, (b) Class 9, (c) Class 10, and (d) Class 1 1, Third Division Public Servants were there in the Defence group of departments at 30 June 1972. 
2 ) What are the corresponding figures for 30 June 1 976. 
How many (a) Level One, (b) Level Two. (c) Level Three, (d ) Level Four, (e ) Level Five, and ( f) Level Six Second Division Public Servants were there in the Defence group of departments at 30 June 1972. 
What are the corresponding figures for 30 June 1976. 
How many military officers of the rank of  Major or  equivalent, and df each rank above, were working in the Defence group of departments at 30 June 1972. 
What are the corresponding figures for 30 June 1976. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
1 ) How many Commonwealth car drivers were flown into Perth from inter-state on or about 28 March 1977 for duties associated with the recent Royal Visit. 
What was the cost of fares, accommodation, and/or travelling allowances of the drivers concerned. 
What costs were incurred in transporting limousines from Perth to regional centres for the Queen's visit to those centres. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Now that the Queensland Government has abolished probate duty, which yielded about $30m in Queensland and which is a duty that all other States levy, will the Grants Commission deduct $30m from the Queensland's claimant State grant? If not, why not? 
The matter I wish to raise tonight concerns the payment of student fees to university guilds. It was stated by  Senator Carrick  in reply to a question on  4  May- I think that  Senator Carrick  has made similar statements on other occasions- that the determination of guild fees was a matter for university authorities and not something with which the Government should concern itself. Whatever merit there may be in that view it clearly is not shared by the Government in Queensland which already has brought down legislation on the subject. It has been reported and acknowledged by the Government in Western Australia that its intention is to do the same thing. The question revolves around whether payments of fees to university guilds should be compulsory for all students who are enrolled. I will deal with that question and also relate to it a series of events flowing from the publication of a magazine known as the  New Libido,  a magazine which was distributed during orientation week at the University of Western Australia in March this year. 

 Senator Carrick has stated that this matter should be left to university authorities. The Queensland Government has already intervened and acted contrary to the view of  Senator Carrick.  It has been stated by people associated with the Queensland Government and by Ministers in the Western Australian Government that it is quite acceptable to have a compulsory fee to a guild to provide sporting facilities and so on but it is quite unacceptable that fees should be compulsory when money is used by guilds for affiliation with the Australian Union of Students, for travel services and for other activities. I find the view being proposed rather extraordinary. Apparently it is acceptable that money should be conscripted to fund university football teams for travel from one State to another to play in intervarsity competitions, to fund university cricket teams or any other type of sporting activity but it is quite unacceptable, according to the people who put forward this view, that money which is compulsorily acquired from fees should be used for other purposes such as affiliation with the AUS, involvement in community issues or sometimes activities which are on the periphery of politics. 
My other question concerns the series of events that flowed from the distribution of the magazine called  New Libido.  It is put out as the orientation edition of  1977.  It is published monthly by the University of Western Australia Liberal Club. The editor of this publication is Simon Withers who is, I understand, the son of a well known Liberal politician. 
I understand that the person concerned is the son of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers).  In this publication there is what is called  A Freshers A-Z Guide to the Guild.  It says things such as A is for arts and B is for something. It contains this sort of comment: 
T is for Trendy- the pre-requisite for membership to lini ALP. Must be totally devoted to  Abbo's;  the PLO; AUS: Women's Lib; Woodchip bombings; Anti-Uranium Demonstrations; Russian Imperialism; Gough Whitlam and poofters. 
It states: 
Q is for Queen- And there are plenty around. They pursue a policy of total agression towards  hetrosexuals,  and anyone who is even half way straight is ipso facto a poofter-basher. 
It continues on in that vein: 
V is for Vice President (of the Guild)- Turd position, traditionally given to a noisy female Guild Counsellor as a token gesture, to shut them up for the year. 
I will not quote very much more. The first item in this  A Freshers A -Z Guide to the Guild  is: 
A is for Arts Union- Compulsory Union for Arts students. Manifestly corrupt- run by the Executive of the Uni ALP. 
Rigs elections and gives away money to trendy left-wing causes. 
I find that reference to rigging elections in this publication put out by the Liberal Club at the University of Western Australia and edited by Simon Withers very interesting. 
Some 6 months ago another publication was sold on the streets of Perth in association with the annual university procession. It was a facsimile of the  West Australian  and was called the  Worst Australian.  On page 4 of this issue there is a story about a meeting at the University of Western Australia attended by, among other people,  Senator Withers,  his son Simon and Greg Sheppard, who was  President  of the University Liberal Club in 1976 and who is, I think, still  President.  There is a report of a discussion between members of this group about the approaching Guild elections. The transcript, as published in this paper, refers to R.W., who is  Senator Withers,  and S. W., who is his son Simon Withers. It reads: 
W.: How is your study going? 
S.W.: OK. 
R.W.: And the AUS ballot? 
S.W.: Aw-OK. 
W.: What about the returning officers, are they on side? 
S.W.: At least one's on our side. (Here it is believed Simon was referring to  Mr Tony  Nutt, a member of the Liberal Club and returning officer for the coming Guild elections ). 
That was not directly from the transcript. The transcript continues: 
R.W.: Good. 
Greg Sheppard: One's a member of the Liberal Club. 
R.W.: Are the ballot boxes safe? 
S.W.: Yeah. 
R.W.: Couldn't you have managed to have stuffed a couple of thousand of yours in them, like the way they used to when I was here? 
S.W.: Nup. 
So the transcript continued. I find it more than a little amusing that a University Liberal Club publication edited by Simon Withers could accuse the Arts Union of being manifestly corrupt, of being run by the executive of the University Australian Labor Party, of indulging in the rigging of elections and of giving away money to trendy left wing causes, when evidently it was being privately canvassed by  Senator Withers  that the University Liberal Club should arrange to have stuffed a couple of thousands of yours in them, like the way they used to when I was here '. 
The distribution of this publication during Orientation Week caused a disturbance. Some people found the material in it offensive. It subsequently provoked an advertisement in the 

 West Australian, from which I will quote an extract in a moment. That was followed by a series of letters in which charges and counter-charges were levelled by one group at another group, and so on, for several weeks. I will not bore the Senate with all the details of it. The advertisement in question was signed by a number of people, some of whom were trade unionists, some of whom were members of the ALP, some of whom were members of the academic staff of the University of Western Australia and of the Western Australian Institute of Technology, some of whom were members of student organisations, and so on. I quote the part of the advertisement that is the most relevant to my comments this evening: 
The undersigned demand that a public statement be issued dissociating the UWA Liberal Club from the outrageous sexist and racist remarks contained in this issue of  New Libido. 
That was the issue from which I quoted. The advertisement continued: 
We further demand that the UWA Liberal Club undertakes disciplinary action against the individual members responsible. 
I have not the date, but I think it was published towards the end of March. That led to a story in the  Daily News  of 1 April, which reported: 
An 18-year-old student at the University of Western Australia said today she had changed her study program because she felt intimidated by her tutor. 
Her tutor was one of the people who signed the advertisement. The story continued: 
The girl, who asked that her name not be published, said: I am a member of the Liberal Club and I feel that the tutor's action in signing a petition against the Club is an act of intimidation against me'. 
It seems to be an extraordinarily sensitive reaction on the part of that student. She regarded her tutor's signing an advertisement which was critical of the Liberal Club, of which she was a member, as an act of intimidation against her. 
No, her name was not Withers. I do not think it was.  Her  name was withheld. I do not know who she was. Even more extraordinary is the fact that the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  saw fit to take up this matter in the House of Representatives during the adjournment debate on 30 March. Normally he is associated with causes such as the Festival of Light. He described the pamphlet  New Libido  as mildly satirical material. I wonder whether the Festival of Light, whose views normally are compatible with those of the honourable member, would regard such a publication as mildly satirical. However, that is his problem. 
So far as he is concerned, this displays once again a comfortable flexibility of viewpoint or of political principle of the type which facilitates frequent changes of political parties. 
When the honourable member for Swan joined the Liberal Party in Western Australia he was interviewed on  This Day Tonight.  He was not the honourable member for Swan then, lt was suggested to him that he had travelled right across the political spectrum- from the ALP to the Australian Democratic Labor Party and to the Liberal Party. It was said that some people might suggest that his political principles were, to say the least, flexible. He replied that his principles had not changed; that it was just that all the political parties had changed. He said that when he joined the Labor Party there was none of this socialist nonsense in the Labor Party; that it had been taken over by the left wing since then and had become a vehicle for socialism. I think the honourable member for Swan joined the Labor Party in about 1948. Those who choose to cast their minds back might remember that at that time there was a considerable furore in Australia about the then Labor Government's proposal to nationalise banking. It was described by the other side of politics not only as socialistic but also as communistic and the beginning of the end of democracy, free expression of views and, of course, free enterprise in Australia. But I digress. 
The honourable member for Swan, when taking up this question of the extremely hypersensitive female student who believed she had been intimidated, said: 
Already one Liberal girl has been terrorised into changing her tutorial group at the university because her tutor signed this hysterical and politically motivated advertisement. 
He later said: 
Who can blame students for adopting cynical attitudes towards their quest for truth when morally bullying tactics are employed by a collective of academic thugs who use their status and the status of the learned institution as an imprimatur for their own personal political prejudices. 
I think this whole matter probably would have been best ignored by all the people who subsequently became involved in it. Since the honourable member for Swan chose to speak in such hysterical terms on the adjournment in the House of Representatives on 30 March and since so many academics at the University of Western Australia have been accused by him under Parliamentary privilege of political thuggery, of attempting to intimidate their students and to impose by intimidation the views of the tutors on the students and so on, reply by me was warranted. The initial foolish actions of the Liberal 
Club at the University of Western Australia started a chain of reactions and overreactions which finally reached their zenith with the hysterical attack by the honourable member for Swan on 30 March, to which I felt obliged to reply. 
-Does the Minister representing the Treasurer know that the Treasurer said in the Parliament yesterday: 
 I am constantly being informed by many employers that they are continuing to shed labour because of its high cost. Of course, one of the reasons why many employers are putting in new plant and equipment at the present time is that they have the deliberate intention of seeking to pare their labour force. That is a matter of regret to the Government. 
Does the Government believe that its 40 per cent investment allowance provides an incentive to industry to install new and larger plant which has the effect of paring away the labour force? Is it a matter of regret to the Government that the labour force is being so pared away? If the Government does not believe that the investment allowance encourages new investment in plant, why is it throwing away about $500m a year on that program? 
More than any other single action this legislation epitomises the hypocrisy of the Fraser Government. This Government issued a directive in breach of the Social Services Act to withhold unemployment benefits from school leavers. This Government has a Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  who asserts  ad nauseum  that public financial assistance must be restricted to the really needy. This week it has brought in legislation under which the Prime Minister  (Mr 
Malcolm Fraser) is a direct financial beneficiary to the extent of at least $5,000 a year and in which four or five other Cabinet Ministers have an unquantified vested interest. To support legislation which will appropriate an estimated sum of $250m over a 5-year period the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  delivered a second reading speech of fewer than 400 words. No justification for the expenditure of so large a sum was even attempted in the second reading speech. With such contempt does this Government treat the Parliament. 
Disregarding the pseudo-economic gibberish of the National Country Party politicians, which will probably be added to by  Senator Walters  who will follow me in this debate tonight, who throw around like confetti at a wedding references to production and productivity without knowing the difference between the two, the only rationale put forward for the subsidy is found in the majority report of the Industries Assistance Commission. This report on phosphatic fertilisers was leaned upon very heavily by the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  and the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  in the other place. I want to make quite a few comments about that report. It incorporates technical error, internal inconsistency and a string of ludicrous assumptions. It embraces the tariff compensation argument, which the Commission 's annual reports have explicity rejected. Moreover, tariff compensation was rejected in the Commission's report on the production of gold, where the tariff compensation argument was most relevant and most valid because a direct production subsidy could have been paid and the commodity was exported- because its supply is price elastic and its production is price elastic and because the price elasticity of export demand within the context of Australian production is almost infinitely elastic. A tariff compensation based superphosphate subsidy fulfils none of those criteria. 
The majority report, on which this Government rests its case, is a one-off document contradicted by everything else the Industries Assistance Commission has published on the subject of tariff compensation.  Mr Robinson,  an Associate Commissioner, to his great credit, dissented from the majority report. That report was signed by a former professor of agricultural economics who, ironically, made his academic reputation as a great  laissez-faire  free market economist. If there were a register of agricultural economists and a responsible body to maintain minimum standards of professional competence and integrity, any economist who endorsed that majority report would have his registration cancelled. It should be regarded as political and not as an economic document. In its summary at page 1, the report states: 
It has concluded - 
That is the majority of the Commission-  on efficiency grounds, that assistance for the consumption of phosphatic fertilisers should be continued. It has reached this conclusion on the basis of its judgment that, given the present levels and pattern of assistance to Australian industry generally and the low-cost status of the major phosphateusing activities, removal of the present assistance would lead to less efficient use of Australian resources. 
It continued: 
The Commission recognises that a fertiliser subsidy has disadvantages but assesses these to be small relative to the advantages of maintaining encouragement for the use of resources in a relatively efficient sector of the economy. 
The framework within which the Commission reached these conclusions is technically wrong. The criterion it used in assessing efficiency of resource allocation is that of the average in that section of the report- of average costs and of average returns. The correct criterion to use for this purpose is marginality, that is, marginal costs and marginal returns. The Australian beef industry to demonstrate my point, on average is economically efficient even now, but at the margin it is not, partly because costs at the margin are high but more importantly because marginal production or any extra production must be dumped on world markets at well below average prices. Similar conditions apply to dairy products. In the summary of the report the 2 Commissioners who signed the report are in fact arguing that resource allocation efficiency would be improved by increasing the production of beef and, therefore, the amount dumped on export markets at very low prices. 
Most of the superphosphate used in Australia, as the report notes, is used to produce four final commodities- meat, wool, wheat and dairy products. Later in its report, at page 28, the Commission belatedly addresses itself to the question of marginal prices under the heading: 'The terms of trade'. Incidentally, it says nothing in this section about dairy production, but, with respect to wheat production, it states: 
Australia's share of theworld cereals market is relatively small. Hence, expansion or contraction of Australian supply is likely to have very little effect on export prices, and therefore on the terms of trade. 
That may be correct but it ignores one important fact, that wheat deliveries were arbitrarily limited by quotas between 1969 and 1971 or 1972 and that already there is speculation about wheat quotas in 1978 or 1979. 
-In 1969 the LiberalNational Country Party coalition was in government. It would be absurd to subsidise fertiliser on grounds of increased wheat production, improving resources allocation and then to limit production by legislative fiat. I would have thought the absurdity of that would have been apparent even to Country Party senators and to  Senator Walters  although, I note in passing, such absurdities have many precedents in the history of Australian agriculture. When referring to wool, the report states: 
As Australia dominates world trade in fine wool, the reverse may be true of wool. 
In simple language that says that any significant increase in Australian wool production would force prices down. Under those conditions a production increase, the allocation of additional resources to the industry, might not increase an industry's gross revenue, much less its net revenue. However, the report proceeds to speculate that since wool is an industrial raw material:   the price elasticity of export demand in the longer run may be higher than suggested by available econometric studies. 
In simple language, that section of the report is saying that it has evidence that more wool will force prices down in the near future, that it has no evidence about likely prices in the distant future or price changes pursuant to increases in production, but it has a hunch that prices may not fall in the distant future by so much as people think. It then decides that the correct policy response to that is that the evidence should be ignored and the hunch endorsed. When dealing with meat, the report states: 
During the not infrequent periods of over-supply of meat in world markets it is usually very difficult for Australia to sell additional meat without accepting drastic price reductions. 
It notes that the drastic price reductions are caused mainly by restrictions imposed by foreign governments against imports of Australian meat. However, it overcomes that problem- that problem which destroys the whole rationale for the conclusion in the report- by assuming the problem out of existence with phrases such as 'considerations of market access aside' and 'presuming increased market access'. Neither evidence nor reasons are produced to explain why such assumptions have been made. In that evidence vacuum and by such processes of reasoning the majority report rationalises its politically determined conclusion. 
Although the Commission stated that the bounty should not be regarded as a welfare measure it examined superficially- admittedly superficially- the welfare implications at page 34 of the report. Using data from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics it calculated that the bounty in 1973-74 increased the net incomes of the poorest 20 per cent of users by 4.3 per cent and the richest 20 per cent of farmers by 2.6 per cent. On that basis, that is of a percentage instead of an absolute effect on net income, the report asserted that the income distribution effects of the bounty were not adverse or regressive. On those figures, the bounty would increase the net income of a poor farmer with, say a $1,000 net income- and there are such farmers in some years-by $43 and the rich farmer's $20,000 income would be increased by $520. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  apparently receives more than $5,000. That in benefit distribution, the report decided, was not regressive. That is a strange interpretation. The same data, analysed differently, shows that 20 per cent of the richest farmers get 47 per cent of the money while the 20 per cent of poorest farmers get 5 per cent of the money. That, I suggest, is regressive. 
Many valid criticisms can be aimed at this legislation, not the least of which- as  Mr Robinson  suggested in his dissenting report- is the degree to which the commitment of so much money will pre-empt other more equitable and efficient rural assistance measures. What is the opportunity cost of this legislation? Is it more adequate assistance to the beef producers who jeered the National Country Party Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  today on the front steps of Parliament House and among whom were some Queensland producers? Few of the Queensland producers will receive any benefit from this bounty because they do not use superphosphate. Is the opportunity cost an acceptable farm income support scheme? Is the opportunity cost the Government's non-honouring of its promise to reconstruct the new land farms in Western Australia. Has agricultural research and extension, or management training which will improve the real as distinct from the synthetic efficiency of agriculture by far more than this measure been sacrificed? Is that the opportunity cost of the appropriation of this money? Would so much money as this fund the research to develop a less phosphate hungry agricultural technology obviating the crucial dependence of Australian agriculture on an increasingly expensive and globally limited resource, as Hylda Rolfe the former presiding commissioner suggested before she was hounded off the inquiry by the Country Party politicians in this Parliament. 
I know that for a fraction of the money we could extend television services to remote mining towns like Laverton in Western Australia or to Eyre Peninsula in South Australia. For just a fraction of this money television services could be provided to all such areas in Australia. I do not know the answers to the other questions, but I know that this Government has not even considered them. It has abdicated its responsibilities. On the basis of arguments, at best fragile and at worst dishonest, it gives a massive financial drench to the sacred cow of Australian agriculture. Nothing has been said by the Government about implementing any of the more rational and sensible recommendations in this report. One recommendation concerned the grossly inefficient method of distribution of phosphate to the manufacturers throughout Australia where ships criss-cross each other in the Bight carrying Christmas Island phosphate from the west to the east and Nauru and Ocean Island phosphate from the east to the west. The Government has said nothing about its intentions on that recommendation. 
In the meantime we see tariffs shooting upwards rapidly under this highly protectionist Government with its highly protectionist Prime Minister. The danger of this to agriculture is perceived by the more astute farmer organisations, hence the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council in the  Australian Financial Review  last month offered a trade-off suggesting that the Government should wipe the superphosphate bounty in exchange for a rational tariff policy. A rational tariff policy from this Government is precisely what it will not get. This drift to increasing protectionism- it is not actually a drift; it is a slide- will compound the adverse pressures on agriculture caused by mining industry growth. As  Mr Baume,  the honourable member for Macarthur in an article in the May issue of  Quadrant-  and which  Senator Webster  told us yesterday was true- stated: 
The facts are that, but for the mining industry, the man on the land would be facing a far better future than the dismal one he must now inevitably come to terms with. 
I want to make it clear that in drawing attention to that reality which the honourable member for Macarthur has correctly stated, I am not bashing the mining industry. I am simply pointing out that a substantial structural change has occurred in the Australian economy which has intensified the cost-price squeeze on agriculture because of its effects on our balance of payments and the exchange rate of the Australian dollar. On top of those additional pressures caused by structural change it has now become perfectly clear that this Government's protection policy will throw all the adjustment burden onto agriculture and beside that penalty a superphosphate bounty is petty cash. 
I want to register a complaint that the Senate, to discuss this Bill, is sitting beyond the time set for the adjournment and, more importantly, that within the last week the Government has introduced in the House of Representatives 14 agricultural Bills which nobody had sighted previously and which the Australian Labor Party had no chance to consider adequately because they were not available until the end of last week. I ask honourable senators to bear in mind the fact that we have spent about half the time during this session sitting around looking for something to do and filling in time. I think it is quite disgraceful that the Government has so mismanaged its business that it has introduced not only 14 agricultural Bills but also 25 to 30 Bills in the last fortnight of this sitting. It is no wonder that the Government cannot manage the economy or anything else, when it cannot manage its own parliamentary business better than it has been shown to be able to do. 
The first 2 Bills of the 5 Bills which are being discussed cognately concern the implementation of stage one of the Industries Assistance Commission report. Let me make it perfectly clear that the intention of this legislation is to defeat the free market forces. It has the object of reducing surplus dairy production which has for many years been dumped on overseas markets at unprofitably low prices. The first stage is a very incomplete measure. The implementation of the first stage of the IAC report is very incomplete. To be really effective in achieving the objectives set out in the report, the second stage must be passed. My great fear is that the second stage of the IAC report, the awarding of negotiable market entitlements, will be wrecked by parochial State governments. The third Bill establishes an advisory body, and the fourth and fifth Bills provide for a levy of up to 15c per gallon on market milk, that is milk that is sold as fluid milk for direct human consumption. 
Despite all the euphemisms in the second reading speech about orderly marketing, let us be very clear that the purpose of this Bill is to defeat, if necessary, the intention of section 92 of the Constitution which guarantees free trade between the States. It can be activated by a majority decision of the Australian Agricultural Council. This means that 4 States can subsequently make the decision which will make this legislation operative. I am disturbed about the possibility of the Federal Government losing control of its own legislation to that extent. My strongest reservation of all about these Bills which pave the way for a levy on fluid milk is that they further institutionalise unnecessarily high milk prices and the existence of 2 classes of dairy farmers. The Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack),  in his second reading speech, compared this proposal with the legislation in the poultry industry, the hen levy legislation, and, in fact, said: 
The legislation is based on the same general concepts as the Federal hen levy legislation. 
That statement is true only in a very general sense. We do not have 2 classes of poultry farmersone producing eggs for table consumption and another producing eggs for pulping or other manufacturing purposes and receiving one-third to one-half of the price received by poultry farmers producing eggs for direct table consumption. Although all producers have, under consequential State legislation, quotas for a certain number of hens and to market the eggs therefrom, the individual growers are not divided into these 2 clear classes of first class poultry farmers and second class poultry farmers. The dairy industry in every State of Australia has for many years been divided into 2 classes. 
This Bill provides the framework and the potential to ossify. If it is passed there is a grave danger that it will perpetuate the existence of first and second class farmers and unnecessarily high milk prices. Ironically, the second class dairy farmers- they are the ones in the manufacturing sector against whom this Bill proposes to discriminate- are the more efficient farmers. 
We are not opposing any of these Bills, as  Senator Primmer  said in his more comprehensive comments, but I want to place on record my reservations about the possibility of Stage 2, which is the crucial stage of the legislation governing the manufacturing sector, being wrecked by the parochialism of State governments and the potentially- it is only potential at this stage- obnoxious feature of the final 2 Bills covering liquid milk. I also place on record the dissatisfaction of the Opposition with the way in which the Government has handled this legislation. It has received inadequate consideration. It certainly deserved far more than the couple of days in which we have been forced to consider it as a result of the way this Government has mismanaged its parliamentary business. 
Again I wish to place on record a protest about the indecent haste with which this Government has introduced this legislation and about the way in which it is forcing the legislation through the chamber. The major Bill in the 4 Bills that are being dealt with at the moment is the one concerning the establishment of the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation. This matter has provoked an enormous amount of criticism of the Government in general and of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in particular from beef producers, and meat producers generally, over the last  6  or  8  months. While some of this criticism is perhaps harsh, it is a well known fact that the present Minister for Primary Industry is one of the most slothful and indolent of all the Ministers in this slothful 
Government. For that reason at least the criticism which has been heaped upon him- the demands for Sinclair to resign, to get out- is certainly well deserved. 
It reflects, of course, on the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that he should have allowed this situation to continue. The Minister for Primary Industry was clearly not applying himself to the job for which he is responsible. The Minister for Primary Industry has been talking about establishing this Corporation since October last year. On Friday of last week the Bill finally appeared in the House of Representatives. In an attempt to get the Minister off the hook,  Mr S.  A. J. Fletcher the  President  of the National Country Party in Western Australia is playing the Country Party's old game of blaming its Liberal Party allies for everything that is unpopular and everything that goes wrong. I cannot understand how members of the Liberal Party continue to tolerate this treachery by their minority so-called coalition allies. The  President  of the National Country Party in Western Australia said that the Federal Government's controversial decisions should be blamed on Federal Liberal members of Parliament. According to  Mr Fletcher,  people like  Senator Chaney  and  Senator Thomas  who preceded me in this debate are the people to blame for the inadequacies of this Bill which a Country Party Minister for Primary Industry has introduced.  Mr Fletcher  said:   . . producers should recognise who were the real villains. 
He went on to identify the real villains as the 4 Western Australian Liberal Party members of the backbench rural committee. 

 - Mr Fletcher made general reference to all Federal Liberal members of Parliament being responsible for this legislation and a more specific reference to the 4 Western Australian Liberal Party backbench members of the rural committee. I think they are  Senator Thomas, Mr Drummond, Mr Bungey  and  Mr Hyde.  Apart from sharing the general culpability of all members of the Liberal Party for the deficiencies of this legislation, those four bear a double responsibility according to  Mr Fletcher. 
Of course we are voting for it. What option have we? We are moving amendments in an attempt to improve it. I thank  Senator Baume  for his interjection. This Corporation is urgently required. Events of the last year or so have shown the urgent need for reform in the marketing and export of Australian meat. The best piece of legislation that this Government can introduce is this shoddy, ill considered, halfbaked Bill which was brought down last Friday in the House of Representatives. Of course we are voting for it because it represents some improvement on the existing situation. It is far inferior to what could have been introduced if the present Minister for Primary Industry was not so slothful and incompetent. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-  Order!  Senator Walsh,  you should be careful in your choice of language. You are within Standing Orders at present but if you go much further you will be outside Standing Orders. 
-I sympathise with members of the Liberal Party in their discomfort. I see that they do not like to hear what their so-called Country Party allies in Western Australia say about them. They do not like the attention of the public being drawn to the fact that the Country Party continually stabs the Liberal Party in the back.  Mr Fletcher  continued: 
It is all very well to blame the Minister for Primary Industry, but it should be remembered that as a Minister he is bound to abide by Cabinet decisions. 
The industry should also remember that the NCP is a minority partner in the inner Cabinet, which would tend to be influenced by the back-bench rural committee. 
That proposition which  Mr Fletcher  puts forward is an interesting one. What  Mr Fletcher  is saying is that the National Country Party does not have the numbers in Cabinet and therefore is totally ineffective. That is not a proposition which I would seriously dispute. However, it interests me that the  President  of the National Country Party in Western Australia shares my view that the Country Party is a minority party in government, that it is totally ineffective, and that, therefore, there is no reason for its existence. Given that the  President  of the Country Party in one State at least has tacitly acknowledged that there is no reason for the existence of that Party, I fail to understand why members of the Liberal Party continue to tolerate this treachery which is exemplified yet again by  Mr Fletcher,  the Western Australian  President  of the Country Party. The Country Party has been doing this sort of thing for as long as I can remember. I do not know why the mugs opposite do not wake up. In relation to everything popular that is done in the bush, the Country Party says: 'We were responsible for that'. In relation to everything that is unpopular and unfortunate, it says: 'Do not blame us; that was the Liberal Party'. 
An honourable senator has asked me to say something in detail about the Bill. All of my remarks are highly relevant to the Bill. I would like to mention one other point. As well as the humbugs, charlatans and poseurs of the Country Party, there are some so-called independent or rebellious senators in the Liberal Party who have been muttering, albeit not quite so openly or so brazenly as the Country Party, about their alleged opposition to the legislation and their sympathy with the producer groups who have been pressing for changes. There is one particular so-called rebel or rebellious Liberal Party senator who has been giving a sympathetic hearing in private to the producer groups who have been complaining. I want to place on record that that particular pseudorebellious Liberal,  Senator Martin,  has ducked out of the Senate today- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-  Order!  Senator Walsh,  you will withdraw those remarks. It is not for you to say who is rebellious and who is not rebellious in this chamber. 
Which remarks-' Who is rebellious '? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  You said that  Senator Martin  is rebellious. 
I withdraw the remarks. I would not have thought that  Senator Martin  would object to that description being applied to her. I think she was claiming some credit for it a couple of weeks ago. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I suggest that  Senator Walsh  returns to discussion of the Bill. 
-It is relevant to the Bill, I suggest with respect,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  to point out that people who have been criticising this legislation- members of Parliament like  Senator Martin-  are not even here when it is being discussed.  Senator Martin  has ducked back to Queensland and will not be held responsible for anything that happens today concerning this legislation. 
Let me read part of the legislation to the Senate to demonstrate the slothful way in which it has been prepared and is being presented. It is an insult to the Parliament. Clause 6, which is to be found in Part II of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation Bill, reads: 
There is established by this section a Corporation by the name of the Australian  M-eat  and Live-stock Corporation. 
Clause 19, which deals with the members of the Corporation representing livestock producers, reads: 
Each member . . . shall be appointed from amongst persons whose names are included in a list of names submitted to the Minister by the Producer Consultative Group. 
So, it is reasonably clear to this stage that the Corporation Bill will be established and that its members will be nominated by,  inter alia,  a producer consultative group. That begs the question: What is the producer consultative group? Clause 41, which is to be found in Part VI of the Bill, reads: 
For the purposes of this Act, there are hereby established- 
. . . the Live-stock Producers Consultative Group; 
. . . the Meat and Live-stock Exporters and Abattoir Operators Consultative Group; and 
. . . the Australian Meat Industry Conference. 
There suddenly everything stops. We do not have the faintest idea of the manner in which these consultative groups, these components of the Meat and Live-stock Corporation, will be elected. The voting entitlement of the persons who form these consultative groups is not stated; their method of election is not stated. So, we are given no idea whatsoever about these matters. The Corporation itself will comprise members of these consultative groups, plus a government employee. Their names will be submitted by the consultative groups, which exist in name only. They just do not exist in reality; they exist only because this Bill asserts that they exist. I suppose that eventually even the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  might get around to doing something to establish these groups. What will be the voting entitlement? How will the elections for the consultative groups be conducted? Surely any government which wished to retain any shred of credibility would have worked these matters out and made a clear statement before having the audacity to introduce such a bill into the Parliament. 
The Opposition will press these questions again at the Committee stage. If the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  sees fit to answer the questions- that would be a substantial improvement on his preformance over the last few days- I ask him, in fact, I challenge him to tell us, before this so-called House of review passes yet another Bill that was introduced into the House of Representatives only last Thursday, who will be entitled to vote and what will be the method of election. Finally- 
I notice that my friends in the Liberal Party are saying: 'Hear, hear!'. Again I sympathise with them in the acute embarrassment inflicted upon them by their treacherous National Country Party colleagues who say: 'Do not blame the National Country Party Minister for Primary Industry for this dreadful Bill; blame the Liberal Party in general, and in particular the 4 Western Australian Liberal Party back benchers on the Rural CommitteeSenator Thomas,  Mr Bungey, Mr Hyde  and  Mr Drummond  '. I wish to dissociate myself from the libel of those 4 people committed by the  President  of the National Country Party in Western Australia. Whatever deficiencies those 4 people may have, they all have a far better grasp of this matter, and of every other matter, than any National Country Party politician I can name off the cuff. Certainly, they have devoted more attention to this matter and have a far better grasp of it than has the Minister for Primary Industry. 
If the Minister for Primary Industry cannot perform better in the future than he has in the past, the Prime Minister will be abdicating his responsibility if he allows the situation to continue. Either  Mr Sinclair  should be replaced as Minister for Primary Industry- sacked as Minister for Primary Industry- as producer groups all over Australia have been demanding for several months, or at least he should be sacked as Leader of the House. The record demonstrates so clearly that, however well he may be performing as Leader of the House- I think he is quite skilful in that position- he is not discharging adequately his duties as Minister for Primary Industry. The final responsibility for that untenable situation clearly rests with the Prime Minister himself. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
In the most recent year for which figures are available, by what amount would personal taxation revenue have increased if the marginal tax rate on individual incomes above $20,000 had been 100 percent. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 April 1 977: 
Within the past 12 months has the Western Australian Government applied for Federal funds for railway purposes. If so, what amount was sought and for what purpose was it designated. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) How many times, if any, have members of the Armed Services been used for 'strike breaking' pu poses in Western Australia. 
When were Service personnel used. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
Has the Government during the past 1 8 months prevented the Australian Wool Corporation from borrowing overseas to finance its stockholding of wool. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1977: 
1 ) What is the total advertising revenue received by commercial radio and television stations in the most recent available year. 
What percentage of Gross Domestic Product does that equal in the same year. 
-I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Subscribe to the view that the Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the government of the day, whatever political party. 
Eschew all means, direct or indirect, of diminishing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into A.B.C. programs. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the Commission which will prevent the granting or withholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general enquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that strong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the enquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Refugees from South Africa 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the patent inability of the Minister for Industry and Commerce, who represents the Treasurer in the Senate, to give information pertaining to the Budget, perhaps the Leader of the Government knows something about the Budget which his Government has presented, especially in view of his colleague's comment a moment ago that there were some galahs on this side of the Senate. I draw the attention of the Leader of the Government to the statement on page 17 of the Treasurer's Budget Speech that as a result of tax indexation revenue amounting to $965 m would be forgone in the financial year 1977-78. I ask whether it is correct, as implied on pages 125 and 134 of Budget Paper No. 1, that this revenue comprises $825m arising from the current income year and $140m arising from the previous income year. Would it not have been more truthful for the Treasurer to draw attention to the fact that the benefit to taxpayers from tax indexation in this financial year is not $965m, as his Budget Speech asserts, but $825m? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I draw his attention to the Treasurer's article in this morning's  Age  in which the Treasurer asserts that there will be- I use his words- an increase of 2 per cent in new jobs this year. I ask: Can this claim be reconciled with the statement on page 1 33 of Budget Paper No. 1 which reads:   the average level of wage and salary earner employment for the year as a whole to increase by 0.75 per cent. 
The Budget figure refers to male units only. Does the Government anticipate an increase in female employment of more than 4 per cent, the figure which would be required for a reconciliation, or was the Treasurer in his  Age  article again indulging his propensity to stretch figures? 
My question is directed to, I think, the Minister representing the Treasurer. It concerns the Australian Bureau of Statistics. I ask him whether the ABS disclosed to the Chief Electoral Officer of Western Australian information concerning the number of sheep and cattle held by individual farmers and graziers for the purpose of compiling an elector's roll for a meat marketing referendum, which I believe is to be held next month. If so, is the Government satisfied that this action did not breach the Australian Bureau of Statistics Act? 
The Minister representing the Prime Minister will be aware that yesterday questions were raised about a document being circulated by the Treasurer. I ask: Is the Minister aware that in the document circulated by the Treasurer and in the document circulated by the 
Prime Minister the figure of $l,390m is suggested as being the revenue forgone from restructuring the personal income tax scale in 1978-79? Does the Minister agree that the inclusion of that figure in the Prime Minister's statement is on the same basis as its inclusion in the Treasurer's statement, that is, it is derived from the costs in 1978-79 of the restructuring as it applies to 1978-79 income plus the residual cost of restructuring for 1977-78- this financial year? Do both the Prime Minister's statement and the Treasurer's statement ignore the fact that by 1 February next seven-twelfths of this financial year's indexation benefits will have been eroded by time? Should not that anomoly be corrected before any meaningful comparison between old and new tax systems can be made? Do calculations by both the Prime Minister and the Treasurer for alleged tax reductions in the balance of this financial year and in the financial year 1 978-79 incorporate that false premise with the uncorrected erosion of indexation benefits up to 1 February next? Do they therefore overstate by about $ 1 billion the alleged tax savings? 
My question is directed to  Senator Cotton  both as Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and as Minister representing the Treasurer. In reply to a question in the House of Representatives last Thursday the Treasurer stated that primary producers' income between $3,750 and $16,000 would be taxed at the rate of 32c in the dollar. Further to that I ask whether income above $16,000 and below $32,000 received in any year will be taxed at 46c in the dollar even if the 5-year average income is well below the $ 16,000. If the answer is yes, does the Minister know that a primary producer with an income varying annually over a 5-year period from $20,000, to $9,000, to zero, to $25,000, to $6,000-that is an average of $12,000 over the 5-year period- would pay in that period $3,020 more in tax than would be paid on a stable $12,000 a year income? I ask further whether that tax rip-off is intended or whether it is just another manifestation of the Government's inability to understand its own Budget. 
I am not surprised that  Senator Young  chose to speak about gas and petro-chemicals instead of speaking about the Budget which is supposed to be the subject of this debate. If I were a back bencher in a government which had brought down a Budget as incoherent and as disgusting as the one that was brought down in this Parliament on Tuesday of last week, I would not want to speak about the Budget either. Therefore, I understand  Senator Young's  dilemma in that matter and I understand also the reasons why he chose to speak about something other than the Budget. 
It is Australia's current misfortune to be governed by a quartet of clowns which comprises a pre-Keynesian economic primitive dedicated to recreating the pre-Keynesian economic realities of the Great Depression, a trick accountant whose liking for misrepresentation and distortion extends- as he proved in the  Sydney Morning Herald  last Monday- to misquoting his own Budget Speech, a director of bankrupt funeral companies who in his spare time presides over the impending bankruptcy of Australian agriculture, and the mineral moguls' mouthpiece who masquerades as the farmers' friend while simultaneously adding $100m to the profits of the Esso company and $600 to the average farmers' fuel costs. The ministerial colleagues in the Senate of Messrs Fraser, Lynch, Anthony and Sinclair- to their credit, I suppose- do not even pretend to understand the Budget or to know what it is about. 
It is almost two years since this group, their lackeys and sycophants siezed the government of Australia. They sought to rationalise the political, judicial and vice-regal chicanery which they engineered at that time on the grounds that they would provide purposeful leadership, they would stop inflation and they would restore full employment. How have their promises and pledges measured up? For the year ended June last the consumer price index was one-tenth of one per cent lower than it had been in the previous year. What the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  calls the underlying rate of inflation' was identical at 10.2 per cent for both years. The implicit price deflator in the second half of the 1976-77 financial year was higher by nearly 4 per cent compared to the first half year of that financial year. Inflation at best is stagnant and at worst is probably rising. There are 68,000 more people unemployed now than a year ago. The Budget Papers forecast a work force growth of only 0.75 per cent on average in this financial year. That inevitably means an addition of at least 60,000 people to the number of unemployed in this financial year. 
After 2 1 months of Rand-Fraser economics, the economy not only is worse than it was 20 months ago but also is getting worse at a faster rate. During this period, panacea after panacea has been eagerly adopted and then quietly abandoned by the Government's economic snake oil merchants. We were promised an investment-led recovery, induced- we were told- by the misconceived investment allowance. Then we were promised an export-led recovery, induced by devaluation. Now we are promised a consumerled recovery, induced by tax reductions for the rich, tax increases for the middle and low income earners and so-called incentives to work harder, when the real problem is that people cannot get jobs and cannot get offered any overtime. How anyone will work or work harder when there is no overtime and no jobs available for the people who already are offering themselves for employment has not been explained. 
This Government seeks to shift the blame for its miserable failures on to scapegoats. It says that the economy remains stagnant because of excessive wage demands and industrial disputation. On 14 August- only two days before the Budget was presented- the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  who is not noted for his forthrightness and frankness, nevertheless buried that particular lie when he stated- for once correctly- that more than 95 per cent of wage settlements in the last year were under indexation and that the level of industrial disputes in the first five months of this calendar year was the lowest for a decade. The Government persistently says that full employment will be restored when inflation and real wages fall. Real wages have fallen, as the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission somewhat aggressively pointed out this week in contradiction of the Treasurer and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  According to the Treasurer- if anyone believes what he says any more- inflation also is falling and thus, according to the logic of the theory postulated by this Government, unemployment also must be falling. The facts, of course, show that unemployment is rising, and rising at an accelerating rate. 
Now the Government blames the arbitration commissioners for its own failures. When will the Ministers in this Government accept the responsibility for their misgovernment of the country? When will they admit that they are miserable failures? When will they resign? When will they make way for a government which at least will accept the responsibility for governing Australia instead of seeking to shift the blame on to a series of scapegoats. The Government wails that men are being replaced by machines in manufacturing industry because wages are too high. Simultaneously it subsidises the machines with a ridiculously expensive 40 per cent investment allowance and it forces the States to impose a 5 per cent payroll tax - 
It forces the States to impose payroll taxes because this Government, which  Senator Wright  supports, has failed to honour the unequivocal promise given in the Senate on 27 April 1976 by  Senator Carrick,  the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs.  Senator Carrick  unequivocally stated that this Government would increase total payments to the States in the three years commencing November 1975 by more than 58 per cent in real terms. This Government, having failed to honour that unequivocal promise given by  Senator Carrick  16 months ago has, of course, forced the States to increase payroll taxes in order to obtain their necessary revenue. 
This Budget's tax handouts to the rich, to the wealthiest 10 per cent of the population, would have financed the abolition of payroll tax. This Government had the option of saying to the States: 'On the condition that you will abolish payroll tax, we will grant to you an additional billion dollars'. The Government chose not to take that option. It chose, instead, to provide massive handouts to the 10 per cent of wealthiest people. If that proposition had been adoptedthe abolition of payroll tax- wage costs would have fallen by 5 per cent. This Government will harangue interminably the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the unions for lesser wage reductions than that. This Government, which seeks industrial confrontation and even industrial anarchy to force wages down, voluntarily and presumably consciously forwent the opportunity to reduce wage costs by 5 per cent simply by adopting a different Budget strategy. Of course it was precluded from adopting such a sensible Budget strategy by the Prime Minister's massive and irrational ideological prejudices. 
The Ministers in this Government are miserable failures. The greatest failure of all is their leader, the economic neanderthal man who believes that deficits must be paid back like an overdraft, who believes that a nation which runs a deficit Budget, to use his own words must go without for the next few years while it pays back the deficit just like a family that establishes an overdraft. This ideological bigot believes that a tax dodge, especially for the wealthy, is the panacea for all economic problems. In the primitive pre-Keynesian world of the Prime Minister the answer to all recessions is to force wages down. In his fantasy world the phenomenon of deficient aggregate demand simply does not exist. According to the Prime Minister, all that is needed is wage flexibility. J. B. Say would be proud of him. As the Prime Minister and his Ministers follow Say's law they push the economy deeper into recession just as their ideological forebears did in the 1930s. In my speech on the Budget a year ago,  Senator Wright,  I told you Government senators - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  Order!  Senator Walsh,  pleas' address the Chair. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  in my speech on the Budget a year ago I told Government senators that if they had any interest in remaining in government their most rational, their first action, should be to unload their present leader, the Prime Minister. They did not heed that advice. Consequently, the latest gallup poll in the  Bulletin  a fortnight ago was headed 'Labor would win federal election: The electoral support for the Labor Party is higher than for the Liberal and Country Parties'. Of course the Prime Minister is not entirely responsible for that, but without doubt he must be granted the lion's share of the blame or credit. So again I give Government senators some gratuitous advice. Probably it will not be acted on this year. It will be ignored this year as it was ignored last year. I advise them to get rid of the fantasyridden ideologue who is taking Australia to economic disaster and them into the political wilderness at an accelerating pace. This man is as ignorant of the most basic economic realities as he is convinced of his own infallibility. 
The Treasurer, when he was introducing the new tax system on Tuesday of last week, said that it embodied- and I use his own words- 'our own tax philosophy'. That is the tax philosophy of himself and the Prime Minister. That is probably true. It certainly bears no relationship to tax equity or to rational economic expectations. The so-called tax reforms are fraudulent. The claim repeated by the Prime Minister in his electoral talk last Sunday that- and I use his words- 'the plain fact remains every taxpayer will be better off' is simply not true. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which I have prepared which shows the tax payable in different income brackets under the present schedule if it was indexed by 10 per cent to 1 July 1978 and the new schedule announced by the Treasurer last week indexed by5 per cent or half the indexation factor. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? 
I have prepared the paper myself. If  Senator Webster  doubts its veracity, I mention in passing that it is far more favourable - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTSenator Walsh,  Senator Webster  simply wanted to know the author and you have identified the author as yourself. Before you go on, is leave granted for the table to be incorporated in  Hansard]  There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="074232197708244_48_0.jpg"></graphic>


 -If Senator Webster doubts the veracity of the table, I simply point out to him that it is far less unfavourable to the fictions being perpetrated by the Treasurer and the Prime Minister than the statements made by  Mr Eric  Risstrom of the Taxpayers Association on  AM  this morning. My calculations based on the assumptions I have already stated show that in fact only one million taxpayers will be paying more tax under the Government's so-called tax reductions, whereas  Mr Risstrom  says that something more than two million will be. I believe I am correct in that one million. It is an honest estimate but perhaps  Mr Risstrom  could be right. Perhaps in fact two million people will be paying more taxation whereas I believe that it will be only one million. But certainly at least one million will be paying more taxation. Yet the Prime Minister had the audacity only 3 days ago to state: 
The plain fact remains that every Australian taxpayer will be better off. 
So much for the veracity of the Prime Minister. The plain facts which emerge from my tableand which emerges with even greater force if one likes to accept the table of  Mr Risstrom  of the Taxpayers Association- is that at least one million taxpayers, that is more than 1 6 per cent, will actually pay more tax after 1 July 1978 than they would have if the existing schedule had continued. Another three million, that is something over 50 per cent, of all taxpayers will have their taxes reduced by less than the amount their petrol prices will increase, while a tiny minority will receive very large gains. Foremost among that tiny minority will be those on an income of $60,000, which just happens to be about the Prime Minister's salary level. People on that sort of income will pay $3,353 less tax under the new schedule than they would have done under the old schedule. So this new schedule will present the Prime Minister with a net gain of $3,300 to go with his $5,000 a year superphosphate bounty which he voted himself last year. 
This highly regressive redistribution of the taxation burden reflects the Prime Minister's value judgments and it reflects an irrational dogma concerning the alleged dissincentive effects of taxation on the work ethic. If the people who propounded that dogma, the people who mouth it and mindlessly regurgitate it, had only bothered to read a fraction of the literature available on the subject they would have seen that there is absolutely no evidence to support it. For example, if they had bothered to read the publication 'The Individual Income Tax' put out by the Brookings Institute of New York, at pages 52 and 53 they would have come across this passage: 
The available evidence, though inconclusive and to some extent contradictory, offers more support for the hypothesis that the supply of labor as a whole is either insensitive or negatively related to the wage rate than for the hypothesis that there is a high positive response. 
What that means is that there is more evidence to support the view that if taxation is increased people will endeavour to work harder to maintain the same level of after tax income as they had beforehand. 
Now one of the dogmatists,  Senator Wright,  is ridiculing this idea. Perhaps  Senator Wright  will care to quote from outside the 50c league fantasists within the Liberal Party some authentic publication which suggests the opposite. I certainly have not come across one, nor has anybody else who writes for the financial Press, so far as I am aware. But perhaps  Senator Wright  can quote some objective study which supports the fantasies propounded by the 50c league in the Liberal Party. We hear nothing from  Senator Wright.  I will not hold my breath while I am waiting for the reference. This fantasy is supposed to generate a consumer-led recovery. After the ignominious internment of the investment-led recovery and the export-led recovery, we are now about to have, according to the spinners of fairy tales who are temporarily governing Australia, a tax induced consumer-led recovery. Apart from the nonsense of the alleged disincentive effects of high taxation on the work ethic, their theory is technically wrong anyway. The gains are concentrated on the people with the highest incomes. I have already demonstrated that the medium to low income earner will in fact be paying more tax. More than 50 per cent of income earners will gain less in tax relief than they will lose from increased petrol prices. 
Between 70 and 80 per cent of the benefits of this so called tax reform are concentrated among the top 10 per cent of income earners. It happens to be another empirical fact that what economists call the marginal propensity to consume among people in that income bracket is significantly lower than it is in the community generally. That means that if these people have their income increased by X per cent or X dollars they are much less likely to spend the increase than an aged pensioner or someone on the minimum wage. I would have thought that the commonsense reality of that proposition could be grasped even by  Senator Wright.  The people will spend less of their income so the reform will be less effective in inducing a consumer-led recovery than if it had been concentrated among people on lower incomes. Apart from that, even if these people do spend it, they are far more likely to spend their additional after tax income on grand tours of Europe and other overseas trips, on luxury imported goods, on Ferraris and Mercedes and on French perfumes and champagnes and what have you which will do virtually nothing to generate economic activity within Australia. 
Of course the cost of this disgusting handout to the rich in terms of the ideological framework of this Government is a cutback in capital works programs for the Federal and State governments. A fortnight ago, I was down at Bunbury. An aged persons village there is trying to build an aged persons hostel. The proposal has not been accepted for funding within the next two years. Only 1 5 beds are available in aged persons hostels in the entire south west of Western Australia. There is a clear need for them. Commonwealth funding cannot be obtained. It is obvious, because of the Government's repudiation of its promise a year ago, that even those who were promised funding last year will not get it. 
This Government will cut back from the $90m it promised for aged persons accommodation last year to $50m. Given the surplus capacity which exists in the building industry now and the fact that building activity is going down, I would have thought that even the most bigoted member of this present Government might have recognised that the Keynesian theory of compensatory spending had some merit and that, far from cutting down on an already low base of public capital spending for which nobody denies the need, funding should be increased. I do not think that even  Senator Wright  denies the need for more aged persons accommodation in Australia. He, above all, certainly should not deny it. I do not think anyone denies the need for it. At this time when there is an increasing surplus capacity in the building industry, this Government because of its ideological prejudices and its overwhelming desire to provide tax handouts to the rich, chooses to cut down on this building program. This is the most despicable and contemptible thing this Government has done second only to its refusal to provide $900,000 for women's refuges, to provide somewhere for women who were bashed up by brutal or alcoholic males. 
Let us look at inflation. As the Treasurer said the other day, 'inflation is the primary goal of this Government'. That is the quotation from the Treasurer. It is not my Freudian slip; it is his. He said 'inflation is the primary goal of this Government' at the National Press Club last week. He added that it retains its primacy. Perhaps it was not a Freudian slip. If we look at one of the more important decisions made in this Budget we find that the Government has decided to increase the excise on, and the price of, crude oil and to increase the excise of fuel to the point where that alone will add 1 per cent- I think  Senator Guilfoyle  gave that figure as 0.9 per cent as an honourable senator reminds me; I will not argue with it- to the consumer price index over the next year. This impost was rationalised on grounds of fuel conservation.The Government was asked last week what its estimates of the price elasticity of demand for petrol within a price change of 1 lc a gallon were. No answer has been received to that question. The Government does not have any estimates. It knows no more about the price elasticity of demand for petrol than it knows about the Budget that it brought down here last week. 
Simultaneously with that decision to increase the price of petrol by 1 lc a gallon on the grounds that it would conserve supplies, the same Government in one of the few areas of Australia where it has direct control- the Australian Capital Territory- increased more than proportionately the registration fees on small cars which use less petrol. I find it quite amazing that even this Government on the one hand can say that it will put up the consumer price index by one per cent to conserve fuel- not being able to produce any evidence that it will have that effect incidentallyand on the other hand say it will increase the registration fees on small cars by more than it will increase the registration fees on big cars. That is amazing even for this Government, a government which has a 40 per cent investment allowance to subsidise the replacement of men with machines and which then bewails the fact that this is happening. 
Let us look at the farmer. Net farm incomes, so the Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimated a month ago, would fall by 14 per cent in real terms this year. That estimate was made before this Government's fuel policy was announced. As a result of this Government's fuel policy, fuel costs to the average farmer will increase by $500 or $600 or, according to the former Director of the National Country Party, for beef producers will increase by between $1,000 and $1,200. I think his estimate is a bit high. I think the $500 or $600 is about the true position. Nevertheless, that will reduce net farm income by a further 5 per cent or 6 per cent. So, instead of the 14 per cent decline that the BAE forecasts we will have about a 20 per cent decline. 

 Mr Sinclair, that part time Minister who directs primary industry in his spare time when he is not directing bankrupt funeral companies into bankruptcy, said: 
There is no doubt that there was general disappointment at the extent of the increase in fuel costs as a result of the excise on indigenous crude oil. 
So much for  Mr Sinclair!  He then had the audacity to assert that the proposed changes to the personal income tax scale will reflect significantly directly and indirectly to the primary producers advantage. In fact what will happen among other things, because of this changed income tax scale and its effect on income averaging- the Government was unable to give any sort of answer to a question on this subject today- is that any farmer whose income varies throughout a five year period from, say, $20,000 to zero, to $25,000, and $6,000 or to $9,000, which is an average of $12,000, will pay under this new tax schedule in that period $16,220 in taxation. That is not an atypical case. If the income was received in constant annual amounts of $12,000 the tax paid would be $13,200. So, over that five year period, because of these tax changes which  Mr Sinclair  has the audacity to assert will benefit farmers, the farmers will in fact pay $3,020 more in taxation than they would pay if the money was received in equal annual amounts. 
He said that the Government was committed in principle to establishing a rural bank. During the 1975 election campaign this Liberal-Country Party coalition gave an unequivocal commitment to establish a rural bank. Yet 2 1 months later it has claimed as a great advance that it has committed itself in principle to the establishment of such a bank. The worst aspect of this Budget so far as the agricultural sector is concerned is not readily apparent. There is no doubt that as a result of this Government's economic mismanagement, particularly in this Budget, the unemployment level will rise by at least one per cent and the economy will be driven deeper into depression. Equally there is no doubt that while the member for Wannon remains Prime Minister the Government's response to that reality will be to increase the tariff protection for Australian manufacturing industry as more and more manufacturers are driven towards bankruptcy by the depression policies of this Government. The people who will finally pay the cost of that double compounded irrationality will be the people on the land. 
This is an ideological budget framed without reference to common sense and in defiance both of empirical evidence and economic logic. The Government had two options for a noninflationary economic recovery- by direct spending on capital works or by reducing the deficit, thus reducing the pressure of public borrowings on interest rates. The former would have been more effective, but the Government did not choose even the second best. It chose the worst conceivable option. Inflation will continue at least at its present level. The numbers of unemployed will rocket, certainly to above 400,000 and probably to above 450,000. The Budget's only saving grace is that it will destroy the Fraser Government. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Given the fact that under the new tax schedule operative from 1 February people on incomes between $6,600 and $7,600 will pay more taxation as from 1 July next than they would under the old schedule, why do so many Ministers in this Government continue to peddle the untruth that everyone will be better off? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Does he stand by the assertion of the Minister for Primary Industry, which was repeated by the Prime Minister, that the general rebate system introduced in the 1975 Budget forced primary producers to pay an extra $40m to $50m in income tax? If so, why has the Government in two budgets perpetuated, and in the 1977 Budget exacerbated, what the Government asserts to have been a grossly unfair anomaly? Finally, in assuming that the original allegation is true, I ask: Are we to believe that the Ministers in this Government took more than two years to discover what they assert to be a gross injustice? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
What action, if any, did the Minister take pursuant to  Senator Walsh  "s request by letter of 10 June 1977 that tenders for the purchase of 200 caravans in lots of 50, scheduled to close on 16 June 1977, be recalled in order to enable tenders to be submitted for single vans. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Given the fact that the former Attorney-General resigned because Cabinet's interference prevented him from performing his duties as the first law officer, are we to assume that the new Attorney-General has no such scruples or has the Government given him a guarantee that it will not prevent him from performing his duties as the first law officer? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 29 March 1977: 
1 ) Does the Minister have any knowledge of the alleged $13 million Western Mining Corporation's uranium 'testing plant' announced in  The West Australian  of '26 March 1977. 
If the answer to ( 1) is in the affirmative, what is the specific purpose of the proposed plant and does it encompass uranium enrichment. 
If the answer to ( 1) is in the negative, will the Minister take action under Section 37(c), and possibly under other sections, of the  Atomic Energy Act  1953-1 973, so as to ensure that the Act is being complied with. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 17 August, 1977: 
Is $A 10,000,000 to be paid to the original inhabitants of Ocean Island from the British Phosphate Commission's reserves. 
What amount is now held in these reserves. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Can he tell the Senate why the former Attorney-General resigned from the Cabinet when Cabinet prevented him from pursuing a prosecution of four former Ministers against whom, according to the former AttorneyGeneral, a prima facie case existed, when the same Attorney-General refused to pursue what the Court found to be a prima facie case against the honourable member for Curtin for breaches of the Electoral Act after the honourable member for Curtin paid $100, literally out of his own pocket, to an ostensible political opponent for services anticipated? 
I do not intend to speak for very long about this Bill. The Bill itself, as previous speakers have outlined, is concerned only with changing the relativities between the States for the distribution of federal funds to local government, but it also opens up the broader question of the whole Federal Government policy towards financial assistance to the States and local government and its new federalism policy. Next to the conspicuous failure of this Government to control and reduce inflation- and its even worse record in the area of unemployment, where the number of unemployed is 66,000 higher than it was a year ago and, according to the Government's Budget forecast, will be some 70,000 higher on average next financial year compared with this year- the. new federalism policy would be the next most important failure of the Fraser Government. The policy which  Senator Carrick  assured the Senate on more than one occasion would guarantee increases in real terms in payments to the States of more than 58 per cent in three years has, of course, failed to maintain in real terms the payments to the States, after almost two years in office by the Fraser Government. Obviously there will have to be a massive increase in the payments to the States next year if  Senator Carrick  's repeated assurances to the Senate are to be honoured. Of course,  Senator Carrick  's assurances to the Senate on this matter will not be honoured, any more than his repeated assurances that the funding for education would be increased by two per cent in real terms was honoured when the Government's education policy was finally released a few months ago. I notice that  Senator Carrick  hides his face- and well he might. 
Given that this Government was a government ostensibly committed to the elimination of unnecessary bureaucracy, one of its more notable contradictions can also be found in its policy towards local government. It says that it is dedicated to the elimination of superfluous bureaucracies and then amends the legislation of the former Labor Government providing assistance for local government in a way that compels all the States to establish bureaucracies which duplicate that already provided by the Federal Government, which compels all the States to set up State grants commissions. Instead of having one federal bureaucracy to administer this scheme we now have one federal bureaucracy and not less than six State bureaucracies. Presumably the Government believes that that can be reconciled with its professed commitment to the elimination of unnecessary bureaucracies. 
The Minister for Education said in his second reading speech last night that the level of general purpose assistance provided to local government in any year is known with certainty early in that year. That statement just simply is not true. Like so many statements which the Minister has made on this subject and on his other area of responsibility, namely, education, his statement simply is not true. It might be known with certainty fairly early in the year what will be the Federal Government's financial contribution to local government. What is not known, thanks to the changes introduced by the Fraser Government in the name of its new federalism policy, is the degree to which that 30 per cent of the total Commonwealth funds which may be distributed at the discretion of the States will be distributed between particular local government authorities. So, while the aggregate level of federal assistance is known early in the year, no individual local government authority knows what will be the aggregate of its federal directed funds and State discretionary funds. Of course, that is the only place at which it really matters. If the individual local authorities do not know what their total receipts will be, it just becomes a nonissue whether anyone knows at all. 
I point out to demonstrate this point, given that the States have a certain amount of discretion in the distribution of funds between varying local authorities within a State, that there is no consistency from year to year, at least in my State, in the way these funds are distributed. If we look at the funds provided for the various shires in Western Australia this year compared with last year we find that in 44 shires- this is out of a total of just over 140- funds increased by 18 per cent or more. So even after allowing for cost increases, those shires were slightly better off in direct grants from this program. In 90 shires the figure varied between 13 per cent and 17 per cent. So funds in real terms to those 90 shires remained about the same. In 9 shires the grants increased by less than 13 per cent and in some instances, such as in the Shire of Bruce Rock, by as little as 7.4 per cent; and in the Shire of Boulder by as little as 9.4 per cent. Some shires had their grants increased by 7 per cent from one year to the next and some others by more than 20 per cent. A shire cannot assess from previous experience what it is likely to get. They know no more under this new program about the level of funding than they did previously, despite the Minister's incorrect statement when he delivered his second reading speech. 
On the broader question of the general level of federal funding for local government the Minister frequently boasts- I guess it is not surprising he does this; he does not have very much to boast about these days- that there has been an increase in funds under this program more than commensurate with the rate of inflation. That is correct. It is slightly more than commensurate with the rate of inflation. What he neglects to mention is of course when he boasts of that increase from $80m, I think it was in 197S, to $140m in 1976 is that although funds under this program may have been increased other funds which are ultimately destined for local government in road works, sewerage works and so on in real terms have been massively reduced by this Government. Therefore, indirectly of course, funding for local government has been reduced. The magnitude of that reduction is not offset by the quite small increase in real terms which the Government has provided with this program. 
Regional Employment Development schemes were pursued under the policies of the former Labor Government. For a long time we were told that unemployment was really less severe under this Government than it had been previously because the RED scheme had been phased out and that the RED scheme was in fact suppressing the true level of unemployment and artificially reducing the statistics. Although the statistics showed that unemployment has been higher under this Government from the fifth month after it came into office than it had been in any previous period since the 1930s, Ministers in this Government frequently said that that was only because the unemployment figures had been artificially suppressed before the Regional Employment Development scheme. That does not work any more. The gap is now so wide. Some 66,000 more people are unemployed now than were unemployed a year ago. At no stage did the RED scheme employ half that number. Even after the figures have been adjusted or, I suppose as the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  who believes in using rubbery statistics would say, stretched- unemployment is significantly higher than it was when this Government came into office. It will be, according to its own forecasts, 70,000 higher again in this financial year on average than it was in the previous financial year. 
If we want to do any adjustments we should bear in mind that it is reliably imputed from statistics on the growth of the work force and the known demographic pyramids that in fact about 40,000 so-called hidden unemployed are available now. These people in previous times when there was some chance of their obtaining work would have registered for employment. Because they now know that there is a negligible chance of obtaining work as long as this Government continues to follow its existing disastrous economic policies they do not bother to register. The real situation is that unemployment is probably, according to the standards with which it has been conventionally measured, about 100,000 higher now than it was one year ago and some 120,000 or 130,000 higher than it was two years ago. The Government's own forecasts are that the figure will be 70,000 higher this financial year than it was in the last financial year. That forecast appears in Statement No. 2 contained in Budget Paper No. 1. In spite of that, there is still no sign of any initiative from this Government that it will direct any additional funds other than those already provided under this legislation. It will provide a little more in this program but will quite savagely cut back in real terms funds for roads, sewerage programs and so on. There is no sign whatsoever of any initiative being taken to channel additional finance to local government for employment schemes at the local government level. 
I guess, given the manifest obsession of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  that it is extremely unlikely that the situation will change. The outlook for the unemployed of this country and for the local government authorities which are in a very good position to assist the unemployed given the co-operation of the Government in Canberra is bleak as long as this Government remains in office, or until the back benchers in the Liberal Party in this Government have the gumption to get rid of the fellow who is the present Prime Minister and who is leading them rapidly into the political wilderness and Australia deeper and deeper into economic depression. 
I present the following petition from 72 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That those who have retired and those who are about to retire, are being severely and adversely affected by inflation and Australian economic circumstances. 
The continuance of the means test on pensions causes undue hardship to them. 
We call on the Government to immediately abolish the means test on all aged pensions. 
To ensure a pension for all on retirement, and a guarantee that all Australian citizens will retire with dignity. 
Acknowledge that a pension is a right and not a charity. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and draw his attention to a Press statement issued on Tuesday by the Minister for Primary Industry in which he claimed that the new averaging rules for primary producers had removed what he called 'discrimination' against farmers by the interaction of zero or near zero income in a particular year and the general rebate system. I ask: Does not the tax threshold discriminate in a similar way? Does the table I left in the Minister's office about an hour ago demonstrate that discrimination and, if not, can he identify any errors in my table? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) Are serving officers of the Australian armed forces permitted to be members of inter-country friendship associations, such as the Australian-Soviet or Australian-American friendship societies. 
Do any serving officers hold the position of either President or Secretary of either of the above societies. 
In the 22 months since this Government seized power, its economic policy pronouncements have progressed from mindless optimism to the sort of wishful thinking and self-delusory nonsense which was epitomised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in a statement he made just over a year ago on 13 August 1976 when he said: 
There is growing evidence that the Government's policies are working. Business spending on plant and equipment has picked up substantially. Stocks are being built up again. Motor vehicle sales are high. One company has recently announced a further $7 1 m expansion. Other major new projects have recently been announced. The stock market is moving strongly. Exports are exceptionally good. National production, measured by gross domestic product, is now rising instead of falling. 
That is what the Prime Minister said 13 months ago. That was a prime example of wishful thinking and self-delusory claptrap. We have seen hopes pinned on an investment led recovery now abandoned. An export led recovery, supposedly induced by devaluation of the Australia dollar, has now been abandoned. We have seen a massive repudiation by the Government of what it has always asserted was its central economic strategy, that is, the control of inflation. We saw a massive repudiation of that on 30 November last year when the Government devalued the Australian dollar by 1714 per cent thereby giving what it admitted then would be a significant boost to inflation. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  a month ago at the National Press Club, just after he had delivered his Budget Speech, said that the control of inflation has been a primary goal of the present Government and still has primacy. 
We have seen consistent attempts to evade responsibility by shifting the responsibility on to scapegoats. Firstly, it was said that real wages were too high and that they would have to come down before there could be an economic recovery. Real wages have fallen and the economic depression has got worse. The Government has attempted to blame the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the failures of its own policy. It has attempted to peddle the line that industrial disputes are responsible for the deepening depression. But only last week the statistics were published which showed that industrial disputes were fewer in the first five months of this year than they had been for the previous decade. Of course, the latest attempt to find a scapegoat centres on the Industries Assistance Commission which the Prime Minister has set out to emasculate and which he now says is responsible for the deepening economic depression. Bill Hayden was responsible for the Government's failures because allegedly he caused the Australian dollar to be devalued last year, a process which we are about to see repeated. We were told that unemployment was not as bad as the statistics of the Commonwealth Employment Service showed it to be; that, in fact, those statistics were unreliable and that the figures of the Bureau of Statistics were the ones we should look at. Last year, the Bureau of Statistics published its latest unemployment survey which, in fact, showed that the unemployment situation had degenerated by more than the Commonwealth Employment Service figures suggested. Finally, last Sunday we saw the outright falsification of evidence by the Prime Minister. He stated in his broadcast to his electorate: 
The rate of inflation- as measured by what is technically called the implicit price deflator- is now 9.2 per cent. 
With the intellectual sloth which is typical of the man, he failed to specify - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order!  Senator Walsh,  you cannot make imputations like that against an individual. You can refer to the Prime Minister; you can criticise the Government, but you must not make those remarks personal. 
With the imprecision for which this Prime Minister is noted on economic and all other matters, he failed either to put his claim into a time frame or to specify to which price deflator he was referring. So far as the latter is concerned, it does not matter to which price deflator he was referring. The Government's own Budget Papers showed that all the five implicit deflators which are listed there rose substantially in the first half of 1977 compared with the rate of increase in the last half of 1976. Whether we look at the private final consumption, the major gross national expenditure components, the gross non-farm product, manufacturers materials or manufacturers output, we find that in the first half of this calendar year all of those deflators were increasing by at least 11.8 per cent and by as much as 18.9 per cent. The deflator which I presume would be regarded by the Prime Minister, and which seems to be regarded by the Treasurer, as the most important one- major components of gross national expenditureincreased at an annual rate of 12.4 per cent in the first half of this calendar year. That represented a massive increase on the previous rate of increase. So we now find that the Government is asserting that we should not worry about what the consumer price index shows. We are told that we should look at the price deflators when, of course, the price deflators are showing that inflation is accelerating if they are taken to be the appropriate index of inflation. Faced with that reality, the Prime Minister presents statistics which just are not true. 
In the same speech he made the claim that the deficit had been reduced by more than $ 1 billion because of the allegedly responsible fiscal management of the Government. While it is true that the figures published in the Budget show that the deficit in the last two years has been reduced from $3.6 billion to $2.2 billion, if we adjust those figures in the way that any pre-Lynch Budget presented its figures we need to make the following adjustments to the present deficit: An amount of $350m for borrowings by Telecom Australia which has been sifted out of the Budget; we need to take $2 15m off the alleged 1975-76 deficit because of Medibank prepayments to the States; we must add $ 100m for this financial year's repayments from the Australian Wool Corporation, $80m that the Government is ripping off the Reserve Bank of Australia and $650m which in one way or another the Government has shifted out of the public accounts because of the Medibank changes. When we add up all those amounts, we find that they account for the total of the $1.4 billion apparent reduction in the deficit. The deficit has not been reduced in any meaningful terms, for whatever significance that might have anyway. It is running at the same level at which it was running in 1975-76. This Government has merely made cosmetic adjustments to the way in which the figures are presented. Far from governing responsibly and sensibly, it has certainly squeezed the public expenditure in areas where it should not be squeezed and has given stupid handouts to business. 
The most outstanding example of such handouts is the investment allowance. A 40 per cent subsidy was granted on capital spent on machines to replace men, to use the words of the Prime Minister. This has been much less successful than the Government believed it would be. When the Government originally announced the policy, it was forecast that the cost to revenue in the financial year just ended would be $600m. In fact, the cost to revenue was $475m, so it is quite obvious from those figures that the investment allowance has failed to stimulate private capital spending in the way this Government expected it would. That failure was totally predictable to anyone who can make a more astute assessment of these matters than the Prime Minister can. 
The Government's present policies and past policies are marked by massive contradictions. The assertion that inflation control was the paramount goal of the Government was contradicted by the devaluation. The current contradiction is between the Government's statement that interest rates will come down and its attempts to stem capital outflow. Our foreign reserves have run down by $600m in the last two months. The Government's response is to say that it will bring  interest rates  down. That statement is made for purely electoral reasons. The Prime Minister is trying to have an election before the end of this year because he knows that he does not have a snowball's chance in hell of winning an election next year. We see contradictions in the Prime Minister's philosophy, his claim to believe in small government. In Launceston in 1975 he said: 
The textile workers of Launceston who are victims of the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut know what it is to be victims of big government. 
If that does not demonstrate intellectual sloth, I would like to know what does. There could hardly be a better example - 

 - Mr President, I withdraw the comment if you find it offensive. I observe in passing that Ministers in the former Labor Government have been accused in this chamber by  Senator Carrick  of being dishonest and deceitful. I think a charge of intellectual sloth is really quite mild. 
High tariffs are a manifestation of big government, not of small government. In his speech in Sydney on 26 August the Prime Minister returned to the small government theme. He said that his government is committed to small government. This comes from a man who is committed to market shares for domestic manufacturers, who has a ministerial review committee which meets in secret to grant protection over and above that provided by the tariff and the quotas to people who tender for government contracts, who seeks to emasculate the Industries Assistance Commission so that there will be no independent scrutiny of his big government actions, and who constantly wants to jack up import tariffs and quotas. We see the contradiction between the Prime Minister's professed concern about men being replaced by machines and the Government's toleration of the existence of a payroll tax of 5 per cent, which obviously discourages the employment of labour. The Government, by its own initiative, introduces a capital subsidy for machines and then stands back in horror when the machines which it is subsidising by means of the 40 per cent investment allowance replace the men. 
Unemployment is 66,000 higher than it was at the same time last year. The Government's own Budget Papers forecast that the average level of unemployment will be 70,000 higher in this fiscal year than it was in the previous fiscal year. Inflation, as measured by what the Prime Minister asserts is the best way to measure it, that is, the implicit price deflator- any implicit price deflator which one cares to name- is increasing at an accelerating rate. I come to the present economic indicators. I will deal with the ones that have been published in the last couple of weeks. In the Australia and New Zealand Bank's publication Business Indicators, the index of factory production, shows a steady decline from January 1977, when the index stood at 165, to 159 today. That is a fall of almost 4 per cent in factory production, on a seasonally adjusted basis. Private final consumption expenditure fell in the quarter ended June 1977 to the lowest level for the last three quarters, at constant prices. It is on the way down. Unemployment, of course, as everyone knows, is on the way up. For the month of July- I think these are the most recent statistics that are available- 10,900 new dwellings were approved in Australia. That compares with an average over the previous 14 months of 1 1,900. In the last month for which statistics are available, approvals were granted for the building of 1,000 fewer houses than the long term average. No matter what major economic indicator we look at, we find that the economy is drifting further and further into depression. 
The grand designer of this canvas, the architect of all the contradictions and contortions of policy and of all the mispresentation of economic statistics and economic arguments, is, of course, the Prime Minister.  His  policies have produced precisely the sort of result we would have expected from a disciple of Ayn Rand. In closing, I give the members of the Government parties some gratuitous advice which I have given them before and upon which, hopefully, one day they will have the gumption to act. If they have any desire to save Australia from sliding deeper and deeper into economic depression and if they wish to save themselves from the political wilderness to which they are rapidly being consigned, they should get rid of the man who presently is leading them, and then they might have some chance of pursuing a rational and consistent economic policy. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
What accommodation and travel expenses to, from and in Canberra, on behalf of  Senator Greenwood's  wife, did the Government meet during 1976. 
If any payments were made, under what appropriation, and on whose authority were the payments made. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I ask: Have instructions been issued to the Commonwealth Employment Service office at Northam in Western Australia, and presumably to other CES offices, prohibiting STD calls from that office concerning employment possibilities? If so, why has the instruction been issued? Could such a prohibition seriously impair the efficiency of CES offices by cutting off telephone contact with surrounding areas? 

 - Senator Collard, like most members of the Liberal and National Country Parties, has obviously forgotten Tasmania, which is usually forgotten by those parties except when an election is taking place, because he said that Queensland is the only State which has more people living outside its capital city than inside it. In fact, Tasmania has more people living outside its capital city than inside it. A lower proportion of its population lives in its capital city of Hobart than is the case within the other State. That obviously has been overlooked by  Senator Collard  and I take this opportunity of correcting it. It is also conveniently overlooked by the  President  of  Senator Collard  's Party- by charlatans like  Mr Sparkes-  who asserts that it is necessary to have a gerrymandered electoral system to ensure that the capital city does not achieve disproportionate size relative to the rest of the State. In order to accept that hypothesis it is essential that one overlook the simple fact that Tasmania, which has and has always had the least gerrymandered of all the State parliaments, also happens to have the lowest proportion of people living in its capital city. The facts run in direct conflict with the theory propounded by the  President  of  Senator Collard  's Party that there has to be a gerrymander to ensure the State capital city does not become disproportionately large.  Mr Sparks  in that instance has been about as truthful as he normally is. 

 Senator Collard also seemed to be somewhat confused in extrolling the virtues of the alleged federalism and simultaneously commending the Federal Minister for stipulating in this Bill that a higher proportion of total Federal funds be allocated to rural local roads.  Senator Collard  had better make up his mind whether he supports the new federalism, with its professed objective of maximising the freedom of choice for State governments and thereby imposing no such restrictions, or whether he supports the policy entailed in this Bill, for which he also commended the Minister, of stipulating that a given proportion-  Senator Collard  said a higher proportion- would be applied to rural local roads. That is a contradiction which  Senator Collard,  I trust, will some day resolve for himself. I trust that his Party will also resolve it. 
In an abstract sense he extolled the virtues of the new federalism on the grounds that it was highly desirable for State governments to accept fiscal responsibility for their actions and their promises. With that hypothesis I am in total agreement. I have not noticed, either in my State or in  Senator Collard  's State, any willingness whatsoever on the part of the respective Premiers to accept that fiscal responsibility.  Sir Charles  Court and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  insist on having a minimum of responsibility and a maximum of power. They both want virtually unlimited access to Federal funds and no constraints whatsoever on how. they expend those funds. There is a great variance between the idyllic Federal-State arrangements which  Senator Collard  hypothesises and the reality of the States of Western Australia and Queensland. When I was in Queensland a couple of weeks ago I noticed while driving along some well constructed and newly constructed bitumen roads big signs at each end saying: 'This is a Queensland Government project'. Of course most of the money for those Queensland Government projects came from the Federal Government- all of it in these particular instances from the much reviled Whitlam socialist centralist Government in Canberra. But of course that does not stop the Queensland Government, with the sort of misrepresentation for which it has become notorious, putting signs at either end of a road saying that it is a Queensland Government project. 
One of the things which is clearly demonstrated in the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Bill is the total farce of the Government's alleged energy policy. Any government which had a serious policy of energy conservation would have as a corollary a policy of urban public transport aimed at minimising vehicle mileage travelled in urban areas. It happens to be a fact that about half the total vehicle miles travelled in Australia are travelled on urban arterial roads and most of it by people in private motor cars, the most energy hungry means of urban transport which has yet been devised. A government which was serious with a policy of energy conservation, or particularly of petroleum conservation, would not be introducing legislation after nearly two years in power for a miserly $5m in new commitments to improvements in urban public transport. 
The Government attempted and still attempts to justify its massive price hike for fuel on the grounds that it is tied up with its non-existent energy conservation policy and that it will provide an incentive for further oil exploration. On Tuesday in the House of Representatives the parttime director of bankrupt funeral companies, the honourable member for New England and Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)-  or the part-time Minister for Primary Industry who directs bankrupt funeral companies while he presides over the impending bankruptcy of Australian agriculture- said: 
For the honourable gentleman's benefit I would like to explain that the reason for the crude oil price policy change was to ensure that we would encourage greater exploration, development and exploitation of Australia's crude oil resources. 
I would be grateful to any member of the Government who could direct me to that area of the Government's policy which will encourage, as a result of the price hike for existing fields in Bass Strait, further exploration. For 2 years we have already had a policy of paying world parity for new discoveries. That is a powerful incentive for new exploration. To increase, as this Government has done, the price for Bass Strait crude with no other considerations attached- this is precisely what the Government has done- will have no effect on exploration. It is totally dishonest for this Government to attempt to justify its fuel price hike in terms of encouraging greater exploration. If it was serious about encouraging exploration it would insist that Esso-BHP, to qualify for the higher price, had to plough back into exploration a stated percentage of anything up to 100 per cent of its windfall gains accruing from this fuel price hike. The Government has done no such thing. It makes pious noises about a resources tax and then the Ministers squabble in private and in semi-public about whether they want a levy at all and to whom it will be applied. They have nothing on the horizon with respect of a resources tax. They have no policy whatsoever to ensure that the $140m windfall gain which will accrue to Esso-BHP will be ploughed back in any measure at all to increase exploration. 
This Government has no exploration policy. Its policy is to direct $140m in windfall gains to Esso-BHP with no strings attached. The Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  gives $100m to Esso and simultaneously adds $500 to $600 to the average farmer's fuel bill - the farmer that he claims to represent. It is a pay-off from the Country Party to the mineral moguls who have bankrolled it for years. It is quite disgusting that a Government that is adding one per cent to the consumer price index from this one decision alone proposes to present a windfall gain of that magnitude to a joint venture which is mostly foreign owned and attempts to justify that policy on the grounds of fuel conservation and simultaneously present to the Parliament a Bill for urban public transport which provides a miserly $5m for new projects. 
I turn now to the second Bill concerning road funding- the States Grants (Roads) Bill. It is a matter of judgment in my view both with respect to the total amount of Federal funds or State funds which ought to be spent on roads and the distribution of that total amount of Federal funds or State funds which ought to be spent on roads and the distribution of that total amount. It is a matter of judgment how much the amount should be and to where it should be directed. Since this Government has come to power there has been a cut in real terms in Federal road funds. Despite all the eternal whingeing that we heard particularly from Country Party members when in Opposition about the inadequacy of funding for roads, the fact is that when they came back to government they cut in real terms Federal road funds. That course is totally consistent with the professed policy of this Government of reducing government expenditure. I just wish that the Government had the honesty and the integrity to recognise the corollary of its policy of cutting government expenditure, which it says is a good thing, is the cutting of funds for roads or something else, which it says is a bad thing. That is another contradiction that the Government has to resolve. 
I have noticed also that these State Premiers, these grandstanders like the Premier of Western Australia and the Premier of Queensland who always assert in the abstract sense their willingness, indeed their eagerness, to assume greater fiscal responsibility in return for greater power, have been bitterly critical of this cut in real terms of Federal road funds. In February of this year when the policy which ultimately produced this Bill was publicly announced, we had bellows from  Sir Charles  Court about the gross inadequacy of road funding for Western Australia. We- and by 'we' I mean the five Federal Labor members- jointly replied to  Sir Charles  with a Press statement on 28 February in which we pointed out that if  Sir Charles  really believed there was a need for greater expenditure on roads in Western Australia under the new federalism policy which he extols, there was a perfect opportunity for him to apply that policy. If he really believed Federal funding for roads was inadequate, all he had to do was to impose a State income tax from 1 July 1977 and he could spend however much he liked on roads. Of course that very logical suggestion was not taken up by  Sir Charles.  He replied with a broadside published in the  West Australian  on 2 March in which he said: 
It is ironical that the five Federal Labor members who now seek to jump on the bandwagon over road funds when it was their Government in Canberra which initiated the serious deterioration in our share of the road money . . . 
What  Sir Charles  was asserting was that the proportion of Federal funds paid to Western Australia had been declining and that that decline was initiated by the Whitlam Government in the 1974 road funding Act. The truth, as so frequently happens, is that  Sir Charles's  statement was at variance with the facts. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
Has the Bank of New South Wales been granted a monopoly of banking services on Christmas Island; (a) if so, by whom was the monopoly granted; (b) if not, why was the pre-existing Commonwealth Bank agency service closed. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
1 ) Did  Mr Maurice  Timbs, the Australian Commissioner of the British Phosphate Commission, visit Christmas Island and South-East Asian countries in his official capacity during 1976, on the understanding that his expenses would be paid by the Commission; if so, was he absent for approximately 2 1 days. 
On his return, did he submit a claim for expenses totalling approximately $ 1 5,000. 
3 ) What expenses were ultimately paid. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
1 ) Was a meeting of the British Phosphate Commission Board held in London on or about 15 June 1 977. 
Did the Board members, the Secretary and General Manager, and in some instances their wives, leave Australia on or about 20 May 1977 to attend the meeting; if so, what was the total cost to the British Phosphate Commission of the fares, accommodation, and other allowances paid to or on behalf of the party. 
When did the party arrive in London and when did it leave. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
What quantitative restrictions, if any, are imposed by the Government and/or the British Phosphate Commission on Citrophos exports from Christmas Island to South East Asia. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister which refers to the urging by the Prime Minister last week of State governments to force the fuel companies to sell petrol at uniform prices. Does the Minister know which company or companies, if any, would sell petrol at a heavy loss at a place such as Normanton? Does the Government envisage quota entitlements to sell petrol in the cities which would be earned only by selling petrol at Normanton or other places in the country? Should this initiative be taken as another demonstration of the Prime Minister's firm commitment to small government and to free enterprise? 
I rise tonight on the first reading of these tax Bills to raise two matters. The first concerns criticism by  Senator Carrick  on 22 September last of remarks made in the Senate by me on the same day. The subject of my remarks was  Mr David  McNicol, a journalist attached to the  Bulletin,  a weekly publication, and in particular the actions by  Mr McNicol  in 1965 when he falsified a news report which appeared in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  of which he was then editor in order to secure political advantage for the Liberal Party in New South Wales in the State election which was then pending.  Senator Carrick  claimed that I, in what he said was my normal fashion, indulged in what he regarded as very offensive and continually offensive words.  Senator Carrick  said: 
I have never believed that the privilege of abuse of others in this Parliament should go to the extent that a person can do something here that he would not be willing to do outside. 
He also said: 
. if  Senator Walsh  believes what he said here, he will be willing to say the same things outside so that others who are not here to defend themselves can avail themselves of the ordinary process of defence outside. 
I have a couple of comments to make on those remarks. Firstly, I would have thought that  Senator Carrick  would have been well aware of the fact that truth is not necessarily an effective legal defence in an action for defamation. There is no reasonable doubt whatsoever- I will demonstrate this later- that the allegations I made about  Mr McNicol  are true. 
My second point relates to a proverb popular with  Senator Carrick  himself: Physician heal thyself. Few people have a record of using the Parliament to denigrate other persons and to accuse people of dishonesty and corruption without offering any proof whatsoever which equals that of  Senator Carrick.  Let me quote from  Senator Carrick  's speech in the Senate on 22 October 1975 on a motion to defer consideration of the 1975 Budget.  Senator Carrick  said- 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
1 ) What duty is payable on a privately owned motor vehicle if such a vehicle is brought to Australia from Christmas Island by a former Island resident (whether an expatriate Australian or an islander) when the resident settles in Australia. 
Within the last two years, have any changes been made to the rate of duty, or the qualifications for exemption; if so, what changes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 September 1977: 
What distance can an F-III aircraft fly at speed Mach 2 on a full fuel load. 
My question is directed to  Senator Withers.  It refers to recent statements by the  Deputy  Prime Minister concerning enrolments in electorates. When speaking about the partial amalgamation of the electorates of Riverina and Darling, in his electorate broadcast nine days ago,  Mr Anthony  said: 
It is beyond me that anyone could reasonably suggest that it will be possible for one man to represent what will be virtually the two existing electorates rolled into one. 
Did  Mr Anthony's  Party, the National Country Party, submit to the Electoral Commissioners in Western Australia a proposal to do precisely that- that is, to double the area of the Moore division by adding to it most of the Canning division? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
1 ) Can the Minister confirm or deny reports originating from Amnesty International that some 1 1,000 political prisoners are being held in detention on the Indonesian Island of Bum, that the prisoners have not been tried and that they have been denied all contact with friends and relatives. 
What action, if any, has the Minister taken on this matter? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce in his capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer and Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister seen yesterday's Press report which stated that the proposed national rural bank will be a trading bank re-financing consortium? Can the Minister reconcile this with the Prime Minister's 11 September electorate talk in which he said that the Government would set up a national rural bank which 'will be a statutory body established by legislation which will be introduced this session'? I ask the Minister Are the Press reports inaccurate or has the Prime Minister changed his mind since 1 1 September? If so, can the Minister indicate why this change of Government policy has occurred? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and follows on  Senator Wriedt's  question. I remind him of the statement in the Treasurer's Budget Speech of1976-77 that this Government yields to none in its concern for the genuinely unemployed. Who does the Government define as being genuinely unemployed? Is it, as was implied in the Prime Minister's speech of last Sunday, the 40 per cent of unemployed persons who are said to be breadwinners, minus the 40 per cent who implicitly left their jobs voluntarily from that group? However the genuinely unemployed may be defined, what has this Government done for them? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations refers to his answer to my question last Wednesday in which he said that the Government's policy in relation to employment was the reactivation of the private sector. I ask: Given the fact that the September issue of the Australian Bureau of Statistics publication,  Business Statistics,  shows that private employment fell by 47,000 in the most recent year, are we to assume that the Government's employment strategy has failed? 
According to the view put forward by  Senator Archer,  the economic indices are all moving in the right direction. If the honourable senator or the Government really believed that, we could expect that there would be no election this year, because recent polls have shown that an election, if conducted now, could be won by either side. Given the rumour currently circulating that the Prime Minister tonight has visited Yarralumla-and one must wonder why he waited until after sundown to do so, and that on the night of the full moon- on wonders, how  Senator Archer  will reconcile the view he has just expressed with the suggestion that the Prime Minister will ask the Governor-General for a premature and totally unjustified dissolution of Parliament. 
Over the last six months we have seen demonstrated once again the political style of the Prime Minister, which is based on the false rumour judiciously planted, the political stunt and, finally, the political coup. The technique he has used ever since his clash in 1971 with former Prime Minister Gorton has been to feed to the media frequently inaccurate information on a nonattributable basis. We saw the same technique used against  Mr Snedden  in 1 975 over the blocking of the Budget; in late 1975 in regard to a change of mind falsely attributed just a few months ago to  Mr Justice  Fox concerning the export of Australian uranium; and finally, of course, the speculation, which the Prime Minister has over the last four months fed, about a premature election. 
In that speculation, of course, he has been supported by his  deputy, Mr Anthony,  who before the National Country Party Council some two or three weeks ago castigated the Australian Labor Party for allegedly circulating or initiating rumours about a premature election, stating how damaging it was that the dastardly Labor Party had so acted and adding that it would be quite unreasonable to expect the Prime Minister to refute the rumours and make an unequivocal assertion that there would not be an election for the House of Representatives this year. Leaving aside the fact that nobody who looked at the record would take seriously such an unequivocal guarantee, the Prime Minister of course has always had that option available. He did not take it up and the reason why he quite properly did not, according to the ludicrous logic for which the Australian Country Party has become famous as demonstrated by its present leader, was that, if the Prime Minister said there was not going to be an election earlier than 12 months hence he would lose the last method available to him for controlling the irresponsible, militant left-wing unions. In what way the threat of a premature election would influence union behaviour  Mr Anthony  did not explain. 
Then, last Wednesday, as my colleague  Senator Button  has mentioned, he returned to this theme of controlling the unions and expressed the fascinating belief that since the Government had, as he said, only six months of life left it could not, of course, effectively control the unions. The implications of that statement are fascinating.  Mr Anthony  tacitly admitted that the Government would not be able to win an election six months hence; thus the reference to the six months of life remaining to the Government. With that commendable, although unconscious clarity and honesty- which he has displayed on previous occasions-  Mr Anthony  admitted that the reason why the speculation about a premature election was initiated by the Prime Minister and himself, and why it has been fuelled by both those gentlemen ever since, is that they fear that the electors will by next year be fully conscious of the magnitude of this Government's economic mismanagement and the horrendous level of unemployment which will by the early months of 1 978, be staring us in the face. 
Let us look at the record of this Government in relation to the economy and in other areas. Who remembers the statement by the Prime Minister in his November 1975 policy speech that Australia does not need a tourist as a Prime Minister'? Since then we have seen the Fraser 
Chinese safari, the Fraser Canadian fishing expedition and no less then six other overseas junkets. Who remembers that statement in the same policy speech that there will be 'no more jobs for the boys'? Since then we have seen the former Liberal Party Attorney-General,  Sir Nigel  Bowen, appointed Chief Justice of the new Federal Court of Australia; a former Liberal Party Minister,  Sir David  Fairbairn- one of the most undistinguished members of the Great Public School old boys association which has run this country for most of the last 25 years- appointed as Ambassador to the Hague; the former Tasmanian Liberal Party State Treasurer,  Mr Gunn,  appointed as a Commissioner of the Australian Broadcasting Commission;  Sir Henry  Bland,  Mr Fraser  's old mate, appointed as  Chairman  of the ABC until he could tolerate  Mr Fraser  's interference no longer;  Sir Gordon  Freeth, a former Liberal Party Minister, appointed as High Commissioner to London; and Paul Gerber- one of the very few academics in Australia who was sufficiently willing to prostitute himself in 1975 that he backed the tactics used by the parties which are now governing Australia in blocking Supply- appointed to the Taxation Review Board. They are just a few I can remember off the cuff. No more jobs for the boys indeed! 
I turn now to the stunting. Every time this year there has been a prolonged industrial dispute,  Mr Fraser  and his lackeys and sycophants pull a parliamentary stunt. They introduce into the House of Representatives on a Wednesday or Thursday industrial legislation which they claim is urgent and which they imply is required to solve a current industrial dispute and then on the Friday of that week, in an atmosphere of engineered crisis, the Senate has a special sitting and this House of review, with the support of the 36 lackeys and sycophants who sit across the aisle, passes this allegedly urgent industrial legislation which has been introduced into the House of Representatives 24 or 48 hours before. We have a stunt as a substitute for policy in an atmosphere of engineered crisis. 
Last week another stunt took place at the Premiers Conference. According to Press reports,  Mr Fraser  said that the Government has agreed to share off-shore sovereignty with the States. The details were somewhat nebulous, as they usually are with  Mr Fraser  's announcements, but I wonder how he reconciles that statement with the extract from the telex which he sent the Premier of Western Australia on 8 November last and which was subsequently leaked to and published by the  National Times  when he said: 
The Government has had regard to the advice received from its law officers that the Commonwealth could not legally accede to the States' request on this matter. 
That is the request to which, according to  Mr Fraser  after last Friday's Premiers Conference, the Commonwealth has now acceded. Then we had a fascinating statement that the States would be able to borrow money overseas independently of the Loan Council.  Sir Charles  Court, who has been puffing out his chest on this matter in characteristic style for about the last 12 months, returned to Western Australia and made a dramatic announcement that he had wrung a bucket full of concessions and promises out of the Federal Government and that he had got tough with the Feds and shown them what a hairy chest he had and they had bucked under the force of his will and intellect. We were told simultaneously that the States 'will be able to tap foreign finance markets'. We were then told 'that the borrowings would have to be within the Federal Government's overall money supply targets and fiscal policies'. So on the one hand we were told that the States would be able to borrow overseas independently and on the other we were told that this borrowing would have to be within the Federal Government's money supply targets and fiscal policies. That, I submit, is self contradictory clap-trap. It is a perfect example of Orwellian double talk. It is another stunt that has been pulled on by the present Prime Minister in collaboration with some of his more egocentric State Liberal Party colleagues or egomaniacal State Liberal Party colleagues to boost- 
I am sorry,  Mr President.  This stunt was pulled on by the Prime Minister and the Western galah in order to boost the chances of the Liberal Party in the election that it plans to pull on prematurely on 10 December- 

 -If Senator Chaney finds the words I have used to be offensive I shall gladly withdraw them,  Mr President.  Nevertheless the fact remains, no matter what expression is used, that this was a stunt. It means nothing. It is self contradictory nonsense. It has been supplemented by a vague assurance given by the Premier of Western Australia about a confident expression of belief that interest rates would be down by 2 per cent or 3 per cent within the next 12 months. Three and a half years ago the same Premier, who was then Leader ofthe Opposition, confidently asserted that he would put things right in Western Australia within six months. Since he made that confident prediction unemployment has gone up by 250 per cent in Western Australia. That was one of the Premier's confident assertions. We have now had another of that Premier's confident assertions. It is all coherently tied in, in a sense, that it is designed to induce and to build-up an expectation or to engineer a sense of phoney crisis for a premature election and false expectations about the economic performance in the future. 
Let us look at the economic performance of this Government. The Prime Minister said in August of last year and again in March of this year that confidence has returned to important sections of industry, that investment in plant and equipment has increased by 3 1 per cent, and that dwelling approvals, new motor vehicle registrations, real profit consumption and capital raisings are up. Let us look at the facts. Firstly, the unemployment situation is 64,000 higher than it was a year ago. Secondly, new money raised by private companies in the quarter to June 1977 is less than half what it was in December of last year. The March and June quarters- the two most recently available- were the lowest in terms of new capital raisings for private business that we have seen for more than 18 months. Seasonally adjusted gross capital expenditure for the June 1977 quarter was $1,2 13m. Again, at seasonally adjusted constant values, that figure is at its lowest for more than 18 months. Alternatively, if we look at financial years we find that the figure for 1976-77 is only $200m higher than the figure two years previously, and the cost of that very modest improvement of $200m is $450m in terms of the investment allowance. New dwelling approvals totalled 1 1,400 for the most recent month against a 17 month average to November 1976 of 12,400. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government. It follows questions asked yesterday of the Minister for Social Security by  Senator Grimes  and  Senator Cavanagh.  Is the copy of the letter tabled by  Senator Grimes  yesterday authentic? If so, does it reveal that the Minister for Social Security misled the Parliament, inadvertently or otherwise, and that eight days later she had failed to correct that error? What sanctions, if any, are imposed by the Prime Minister and/or the Government on Ministers who mislead the Parliament? 
As a result of the amendments to the Electoral Act passed in 1974 it was mandatory for adjustments to be made to the boundaries of some of the electorates in Western Australia, barring the possible exception which  Senator Douglas  McClelland has just mentioned. Among the changes required, the electorate of Kalgoorlie had to attract more enrolments in order to meet the 10 per cent permissible deviation from the quota, as did the electorate of Canning. For those familiar with the geography and the previous electoral division history of Western Australia, it was quite rational and logical- there was a precedent-for the expansion of the Kalgoorlie division into the subdivision of Esperance. That was, in fact, done by the commissioners and that then brought the Kalgoorlie division 901 votes above the minimum number of electors required by the 1974 amendments to the Electoral Act. I shall return to Kalgoorlie later. 
Forrest also had to be extended in area. It was quite reasonable to incorporate some of the central Great Southern shires around Katanning into the electorate of Forrest. Both these excisions were from the previous division of Canning, so Canning was required to expand somewhere else. The commissioners decided to incorporate most of the industrial area centred on Kwinana. That is a decision which may or may not have been defensible. Up until that stage the adjustments which the commissioners made were quite reasonable and on the whole defensible. The adjustments made thereafter were, however, neither reasonable nor defensible. To the electorate of Kalgoorlie, which already was almost 1,000 votes over the minimum required by the Commonwealth Electoral Act, the Commissioners added a small portion of the shire of Yalgoo and the entire shires of Carnamah and Perenjori and Three Springs, which involved a total of 1,670 votes. There is no historical precedent, at least in recent times, for any of that area being in the Kalgoorlie division. 
Moreover- and I suggest this is highly significantthe normal Labor vote in those areas is in the vicinity of 15 per cent. So by the unnecessary inclusion of those three shires in the Federal division of Kalgoorlie the Liberal Party, which currently holds the seat, has gained in net terms in excess of 1,000 votes which could well be enough to enable the Liberal Party to retain the seat at the forthcoming election. 
It is interesting to note that the National Country Party of Australia has made no criticism of this unnecessary geographic expansion of the Kalgoorlie electorate. The National Country Party keeps telling us that not only the number of electors should be considered but also the area of a division. The division of Kalgoorlie, even without the three shires I have mentioned, had almost one quarter of this continent in its boundaries. Therefore one quarter of Australia is within this electorate. Although the electorate met the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act the commissioners decided to add three shires, in which coincidentally the Labor vote is about 15 per cent, to a marginal seat. I think that we can judge from that, and from one other matter that I will mention shortly, the sincerity of the National Country Party in putting forward the view that the area of electorates must be given weight equal to or somewhat approaching the number of electors. 
Moreover, the Kalgoorlie division happens to have the lowest ratio of enrolled electors to total population of any division in Australia, or at east this was the case after the 197 1 census. This situation arises partly because a large proportion of the work force in the rnining areas is transitory and partly because it contains a very large number of yet unenrolled Aboriginals. As the Liberal Party is well aware, Aboriginals in the far northern section of the Kalgoorlie division have enrolled in very large numbers. I think that something like 1,400 enrolled prior to the last State election. The Aboriginals are becoming more politically conscious and are voting Labor and, of course, the Liberal Party is trying to cheat them of their right to vote. Whether we look at the number of people or potential enrolments or whether we look at the law there is no justification for the extension of the Kalgoorlie division. 
Within the metropolitan area other adjustments have been made for which no rational basis can be established. The Bassandean and Bayswater areas were excised from the electorate of Perth, which is another marginal electorate, and put in the division of Swan. Lockridge, which is a State Housing Commission area, was taken from Swan and put into the rural electorate of Moore. As a result of those changes the seat of Perth, which almost certainly would have been returned to the Australian Labor Party at the forthcoming election, has now become a highly marginal seat and could be retained by the Liberal Party. It just so happened that the adjustments that were made to the Perth boundaries cut out all those areas of the electorate which voted 60 per cent to 65 per cent Labor and incorporated suburbs such as Yokine, Nollamara and Menora which vote about 60 per cent or 65 per cent Liberal. Again, especially when one looks at the adjustments in the total context of the Western Australian redistribution, it seems amazing that these boundary changes which have been made- decisions which have neither precedent, law nor logic on their side- all happen to advantage the Liberal Party. One must wonder why this is so. 
The National Country Party submitted to the Distribution Commissioners that the rural sections of almost the entire pre-existing divisions of Canning and Moore plus a portion of the preexisting division of Forrest should be incorporated into one rural electorate. This proposition does have some merit. There would be a certain degree of community of interest within such an electorate. Also it probably would give the National Country Party one seat. It could be argued that the National Country Party, which gets about 10 per cent of the vote in Western Australia, is entitled to one seat in a State which has 10 divisions. But whatever the merits of those arguments, they run contrary to the generally expressed philosophy of the National Country Party that electorate areas should be minimised. The National Country Party says it is almost as important to look at the area of an electorate as it is to look at the number of people in it or the number of people who are enrolled. 
This attitude is particularly ironical in view of the federal leader of the National Country Party having stated that it was ludicrous to suggest that the division of Riverina should be doubled in area by incorporating half of the pre-existing division of Darling.  His  rhetorical question was this: 'Can anyone seriously suggest that one man can represent an area almost twice the size adequately?' After all,  Mr Anthony's  own party in Western Australia put to the commissioners the proposition that they should double the area of the previous division of Moore. In spite of the inconsistencies in the view of the National Country Party and in spite of the contradictions between that alleged view and the statements of its leader, some reasonable case can be made for a rural electorate of that nature which probably would return a National Country Party member. It is just unfortunate that once again the alleged 
National Country Party principle of minimising the area of electorates wherever possible evidently can be sacrificed when the more important principle of maximising Country Party seats becomes relevant. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland has pointed out already that the validity of the redistribution in Western Australia is currently under challenge in the court because it is alleged that the redistribution does not comply with the requirements of the amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act passed, I think, at the end of last year or at the beginning of this year. I understand that the Government is introducing retrospective legislation to validate this redistribution. In view of that challenge and in view of the challenge, which has been heard by the court but upon which judgment has not been delivered, as to the right of the Territories to return members to the House of Representatives or to the Senate, and in view of the fact that redistributions are required, according to an existing judgment of the High Court which precludes any election being held on the old boundaries in at least five States, and presumably would permit an election at large, it is astonishing, to say the least, that the GovernorGeneral should have granted permission for the dissolution of Parliament, particularly when his action blatantly contradicts his own statement in New Delhi in February 1 975. 1 can only assume from that highly inconsistent action on the part of the Governor-General that it was related to the time of the day at which  Mr Fraser  called on him. He went after dinner which, as is well known, is a time of the day when the GovernorGeneral will sign anything that is put in front of him. In fact he probably would do that any time after breakfast. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government. Is the Government promising among other things a fuel price equalisation scheme costing about $lm as proposed by the Deputy Prime Minister and a me fathers supporting benefit which was mentioned by Sentor Ryan? Since these unplanned proposals will significantly increase the Budget deficit, does the Minister know whether the Treasurer has changed his belief that a higher deficit would be irresponsible and inflationary? 
Regardless of whether  Senator Hall  was a Liberal two years ago, whether he is now, or whatever he was two years ago and may have been in between, he has not explained whether he still disbelieves the man who is now his leader and of whom he said just over two years ago: 'I have heard the many other twists of the truth in which Senators has been involved. On his track record I must disbelieve him'. I would like  Senator Hall  to say whether he still disbelieves the man who is now his leader in this chamber if he claims to be a loyal member of the Liberal Party. If he does still disbelieve  Senator Withers,  I invite him to say so and, if he does not, I invite him to stop posturing as something other than another Liberal Party toady and machine man.  Senator Hall  also expressed some interest in definitive statements of policy from parties. If he really is interested in definitive statements of party policy, perhaps he can extract from  Senator Withers  the information which I could not extract from him with two questions two hours ago, that is, whether  Mr Anthony  or  Mr Fraser  speaks for the Government on the question of petrol price equalisation. We have had  Mr Anthony  running around every bush town in the last month promising that the Government will introduce a petrol price equalisation scheme, but we have yet to hear the definitive statement of Government policy on this matter. If  Senator Hall  is genuinely interested in definitive statements of policy, I invite him to attempt to extract from  Senator Withers  the information which I could not extract from him in two very pointed and succinct questions this afternoon, both of which  Senator Withers  dodged. If  Senator Withers  wants an opportunity to answer those questions, he will have it in this first reading debate after I and perhaps one or two other honourable senators have spoken. 
I point out, whilst speaking of the fuel price equalisation scheme as proposed by  Mr Anthony,  that nobody knows whether it is supported by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  whether the Prime Minister supports his  Deputy  or whether anyone on the Government side of the chamber supports the policy of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  which, so he says, is to equalise petrol prices and to cover freight costs to the country by imposing a levy on sales. As he was reported - 
Does  Senator Archer  think it is a good idea? Does he support  Mr Anthony's  statement? Can he guarantee that the Prime Minister supports the  Deputy  Prime Minister's statement? 
Can  Senator Archer  guarantee that the Prime Minister supports  Mr Anthony's  statement?  Senator Archer  is unable to guarantee that the Prime Minister supports  Mr Anthony's  statement. He is unable to state whether he himself supports it because  Mr Fraser  has not yet told  Senator Archer  what  Senator Archer  believes, and after he has told him that I suppose  Senator Archer  will be good enough to pass that information on to the rest of us. 
As was explained by the Deputy Prime Minister, his policy-we do not know whether it is Government policy but apparently the Deputy Prime Minister does not necessarily have anything to do with the Government- is that freight charges will be picked up by a levy on sales in metropolitan areas and that levy, in his definitive statement of policy, will be one-quarter or onehalf of a cent per litre. It is magnificently precise costing for a man who is Deputy Prime Minister and has the resources of government at his disposal to be able to cost his policies within a margin of plus or minus 33-1/3 per cent. Precision in costing surely can advance no further. Of course, his figures were wrong anyway. If it costs $100m a year, as other Government spokesmen, including the Prime Minister, have stated, the levy required on all sales, not just metropolitan sales, to raise $100m a year will be 0.75c per litre. 
My main reason for speaking on this Bill was to draw attention once again to the audacity of the Prime Minister when he pulled this premature election in claiming that it was necessary to have an election to remove the instability which had been generated by constant talk of a premature election. There is a story which I have heard before and which one of the newspapers published last week.  Mr Fraser  's actions can be neatly described by a Yiddish word 'chudzpah'. It has no precise English translation but it has been likened to a person who murdered both his parents and then threw himself on the mercy of the court on the ground that he was an orphan. The Prime Minister's posturing about an early election, his attempt to justify his action, his cynical political opportunism, on the ground that it was necessary to remove the uncertainty that he himself had generated, is precisely comparable with the actions of the legendary double murderer who was guilty of both patricide and matricide and threw himself on the mercy of the court because he was an orphan. 
-Senator Hall still wants to talk so perhaps he will tell us whether he still believes that  Senator Withers  twists the truth and, because of  Senator Withers'  track record, still disbelieves him. The question of economic instability and uncertainty was taken up in a very good article in today's Melbourne  Age  by its economic editor, Kenneth Davidson. He does not present any information which is not already known by any moderately well-informed person who has access to material other than that provided in the daily Press. That category of moderately well-informed people on this subject excludes almost all members of the Liberal and National Country Parties in this Parliament and, unfortunately, most people throughout the electorate because they do not have access to the information. Only a few qualify newspapers such as the Melbourne  Age  and the  Australian Financial Review  published this sort of factual material. I would be astounded if the  West Australian,  the worst capital city newspaper in Australia, ever published factual material such as this. It certainly has not done so to date. Kenneth Davidson said in the context of the Prime Minister's professed concern for economic uncertainty: 
But the blockage of Supply, and some of the extreme statements about the nature of the economic crisis . . . 
That is in 1975 - were scarcely appropriate to economic stability or even to reality. 
For instance,  Mr Fraser  stated that under Labor's policies . . . 
This is still in 1975 - unemployment would reach 480,000 . . . 
He continued: 
At the time the unemployment forecast was outlandish, as was shown by the slight fall in unemployment immediately after the election. 
Davidson went on to comment on the Prime Minister's most significant contribution to the wellbeing of economic illiteracy in this country when he said: 
At one stage during the 197S election campaign,  Mr Fraser  said that in two years Australia would spend $6,500m more than we have- over $500 for every Australian. 
The fact is that the excess of Commonwealth spending over receipts in the three Whitlam Government Budgets totalled $6,300m. 
These matters are all on the public record; it is just that rarely does a newspaper publish them. He continued: 
In the two Budgets the Fraser Government has been responsible for the deficit of spending over receipts is estimated in the August Budget documents as $6,000m . . . 
That is in two years - and undoubtedly, by the time the year is out, other supplementary budgetary measures will be introduced so that the two-year deficit of the Fraser Government will be greater than the three-year deficit of the Whitlam Government. 
One of those appropriations, if we can believe the Deputy Prime Minister, presumably would be for the fuel price equalisation scheme and the unplanned expenditure of $ 100m entailed in that proposal would boost the deficit. Davidson continues: 
But it is unlikely that the electorate will hear anything about the $500 debt for each Australian from the Labor Government being transferred by the Fraser Government into a $ 1 ,000 debt for each Australian. 
Of course, this sort of stuff is economic nonsense. No Australian has to reduce his living standard by $500 or by $1,000 to pay himself back. Davidson also states: 
Government debt is only a net burden to the Australian community when it is owed overseas. During the period of the Whitlam Government overseas debt was reduced by net repayment of loans. But official borrowings by the Fraser Government will reach close to $3,000m by the end of the financial year. 
Of course, nothing that Davidson has written is unknown to anyone who is moderately literate in these matters and has access to information unfortunately not available through the daily Press. If we are really worried about having to pay back money that the Government has spent, we should bear in mind that Australia must pay back $3 billion which the Fraser Government has borrowed overseas and spent, whereas the Whitlam Government had a net repayment of overseas debt. This conceptual ignorance of these matters obviously extends well beyond the Prime Minister and the Government.  Senator Carrick  during Question Time today spoke of a type of Government spending which increases the money supply and pushes up interest rates. Obviously,  Senator Carrick  is unaware of the fact that the two phenomena which he said would follow simultaneously are mutually exclusive. Government spending which increases the money supply is spending financed by an unfunded budget deficit which has no effect on interest rates. On the other hand, if government expenditure is financed by borrowings this will push up interest rates but it will not increase the money supply. So the conceptual ignorance about these very elementary principles of the subject obviously extends well beyond the Prime Minister.  Mr Fraser,  having pulled this premature election because he knows very well that the economy is sliding rapidly further Unto recession, pretends that the Government is optimistic, that the economic depression has bottomed and that we are rapidly moving into an era of new prosperity. Such statements by our Prime Minister are by no means unprecedented. For example, on 1 3 August last year he said: 
There is growing evidence that the Government's policies are working. Business spending on plant and equipment has picked up substantially. National production, measured by gross domestic product, is now rising. 
Some seven months later on 23 March this year he said: 
Confidence has returned to important sections of industry. Investment in plant and equipment by private enterprise increased by over 3 1 per cent last year. Dwelling approvals, registration of new motor vehicles, real private consumption and new capital raisings by listed companies all markedly improved last year. 
That is what the Prime Minister said was going on. That is what he still claims. Now let us look at the facts. I will deal firstly with capital raisings by private companies from the June quarter of 1976 onwards. The sums raised during those five quarters were as follows: $534m, $399m, 682m, $284m and $3 17m. The amount raised in the June quarter, the latest quarter for which figures are available, is the second lowest amount of the last five quarters and is some 50 per cent below the average amount for those five quarters. 
Another major economic indicator is gross capital expenditure by private business. For the same five quarters from June 1976 onwards, the capital expenditure by private business was as follows: $l,271m, $l,235m, $1,31 lm, $l,281m and $1,2 13m. The figures are seasonally adjusted. For the latest quarter for which figures are available gross capital expenditure by private companies is the lowest it has been for the last five quarters. I now turn to the number of new dwellings approved. For the 1 7 months ending November 1976, an average of 12,430 dwellings were constructed. That figure steadily declined for the next 10 months to a near record low of 9,400 dwellings in the most recent month for which figures are available. In December 1976 construction of residential dwellings went into a slide from which it has not recovered and, on the most recently available figures, into which it continues to slide further. 
Private final consumption expenditure is one of the areas that both the Prime Minister and his Treasurer claim is a major indicator of the state of the economy. In the last three quarters from December 1976, private final consumption expenditure was: $5, 601m, $5, 505m and $5,50 lm. It is going down. All the statistics I have cited come from the September issue of the Australian Bureau of Statistics publication  Business Statistics.  Another major economic indicator is the index of factory production published by the Australian and New Zealand Banking Group. Let me cite the seasonally adjusted index figures over the last eight months from January 1977: January $165m, February $165m, March $164m, April $162m, May $16 lm, June $160m, July $161m and August $160m. The figures show a clear downward trend from the position at the beginning of this year. 
In the face of all this objective evidence and all the statistical proof the Prime Minister has the audacity to claim that the economy is recovering. If the Prime Minister really believed that the economy was recovering we would be having an election next year and not this year. I will now deal with the rural sector. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has forecast that real farm income will fall by 16 per cent in this financial year. According to the Treasurer just over a year ago, the farm sector was in a state of collapse. Farm income has fallen in both the years since the Treasurer made that statement. The forecast for this year is for a 16 per cent fall in real farm income. Again, the Prime Minister is getting in to hold an election early hoping that he can fool the electorate before the people become fully conscious of the economic disaster into which he and his policies have led the country. 
Last Friday in a display of grandstanding he telexed all the State Premiers asking them to use their powers in respect of the auction laws to eliminate collusive buying in cattle saleyards which apparently  Mr Fraser  believes is occurring. I do not know whether it is occurring. But if the Government had any genuine interest in the position of primary producers and if it believed that there was collusion in saleyards and that monopolistic practices were depressing prices received by producers, why did it not give the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation full trading powers in its own right? The Bill to establish the Corporation was passed this year by the Parliament. If the Government believes that sort of malpractice exists in the saleyards why does it not give the Meat and Livestock Corporation the power to break that monopolistic malpractice by giving it full trading rights? One can judge the degree of genuine concern of this Government in the matter by examining the appointee to the position of  chairman  of the Corporation. It is a  Mr Jones  who said a fortnight ago that the new Meat and Livestock Corporation, although it had a different name, was really no different to the old Australian Meat Board and it would not do anything which the old Meat Board did not do. I hope that all meat producers- the beef producers in particular- are aware of the fact that this is what the Government appointed  chairman  of the Meat and Livestock Corporation has said. He said that the Corporation will not do anything that the old Meat Board did not do. The judgment of the overwhelming majority of producers was that the old Meat Board was inadequate. Indeed, I suggest that if this Government had any concern for this area of policy it would promptly remove the man who made that statement from the position of  chairman. 

 Mr Fraser promised the establishment of a rural bank in his policy speech of November 1975. As recently as 11 September this year he committed the Government to the establishment of a statutory corporation which  Senator Cotton  endorsed in the Senate a couple of week ago. It now appears from rumours that the bank will be nothing but a consortium of private banks. So the rural bank will be nothing but an on-lending institution. It will not be a statutory corporation. It will make some funds available to private banks to lend on to farmers. Essentially, the crippling lender of last resort restrictions not only will remain in force but also the bank is unlikely to have direct dealings with farmers at all. So in those two instances, as we have always known, when the interests of farmers are in conflict with big business, the Liberal Party always lets the farmers down. In the face of this incompetence, this rapidly deteriorating economic situation, it is useful to look back on the excuse this Government used when it came into power, the excuse it used for blocking Appropriation Bills two years ago. It was the alleged mismanagement of the economy by the then Labor Government. Since then the economy has become much worse: 62,000 more people are unemployed. By the middle of next year that figure will have increased to at least 100,000. All of the major economic indicators show that the economy is sliding deeper into a recession. 
It is also interesting to reflect that the Governor-General, who granted this election, said in February 1975, that the only justification for granting a premature election would be that the Parliament was unworkable. He explicitly stated that an election should not be granted just because the Prime Minister of the day found it convenient to hold it prematurely at that particular time. One must wonder why, since the Governor-General himself created the precedent in November 1975 of issuing a statement explaining his reason for taking a particular course of action- he has not on this occasion issued a statement explaining why he has contradicted his own view, stated less than three years ago. 
Now, anyone who saw the broadcast from Flemington yesterday would not need to have very much imagination to deduce a probable reason why the Governor-General granted the dissolution to  Mr Fraser,  which he himself had said less than three years ago ought not to be granted. Any public servant who appeared, in discharging his duties in public, drunk would face disciplinary action . . . 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! 
I wish to know what will happen to the Governor-General because of his disgusting drunken performance at Flemington yesterday. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Walsh  - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  You will sit down when the occupant of the chair stands. You will now withdraw those remarks that you made. 

 -Mr Deputy President, the test of acceptability in this chamber is the Standing Orders. I wish it were the truth. Six million 
Australians who saw the Governor-General on television yesterday know what I stated was true. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Walsh,  you will withdraw the remarks that you made about the Governor-General.  Senator Walsh,  I call on you to withdraw those remarks. 
In deference to the Chair,  Mr Deputy President,  I will withdraw the remark. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  It is not in deference to the Chair at all. You will withdraw the remarks. 
The remarks I believe- I know the remarks were true,  Mr Deputy President.  I would withdraw them in deference to you but I will not retract what I know to be true. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I am still not satisfied with your withdrawal,  Senator Walsh,  and I ask you to withdraw those remarks wholeheartedly. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I have let you go far enough. I am going to call on  Senator Walsh  to withdraw the remarks that he made about the Governor-General. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Yes, please sit down,  Senator, until  I have dealt with this matter. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I have a list of speakers in front of me. I let you go on because there was a certain situation that developed in the Senate. I think we have gone far enough now and that  Senator Walsh  should do what I asked him to do. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  You are disagreeing with my ruling. Will you please sit down. I call on  Senator Walsh. 
Out of deference to you,  Mr Deputy President,  I will withdraw the remarks and I shall leave it to six million Australians to reach their own conclusion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! You cannot say 'in deference to the Chair'. You made some remarks which I think were very disparaging to the Governor-General and I now ask you to withdraw them. 
-I will withdraw the remarks,  Mr Deputy President,  and six million Australians saw the incident on television. I also request that you ask  Senator Archer  - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! You will withdraw the remarks and refrain from making any other statement about the Governor-General. 
-I will withdraw the remarks, and the only statement I made was that probably six million people were watching the Melbourne Cup broadcast. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! I am going to sit you down. I have asked you to do certain things, and I am going to call the next speaker. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  On the point of order taken by the Leader of the Opposition, I think most persons occupying the chair have let the name of the Governor-General be mentioned. Indeed a good illustration of that was the reference in the debate to what took place in 197S, but if any senator in this place makes such disparaging remarks about the GovernorGeneral such remarks must be withdrawn unconditionally,  Senator Walsh.  I do not uphold the point of order taken by the Leader of the Opposition. 
-Out of respect to you,  Mr Deputy President,  I withdraw the remarks. I might also mention that  Senator Archer  - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Walsh,  I must point out to you that the Chair has asked you to withdraw the remarks unconditionally. I want no statements such as 'out of respect to you' or anything else. 
-I withdraw the remark,  Mr Deputy President,  and continuing my speech, on the matter of television ratings I suppose, I think about six million people would have been watching the Melbourne Cup. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Drake-Brockman)-Order!  I did not hear it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! Sit down please,  Senator Georges.  I call  Senator Jessop. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of his earlier comments on tariff and unemployment I ask: Does the Minister know that the Industries Assistance Commission in its annual report drew attention to the fact that employment in the construction industry had fallen by as much as or more than it had in manufacturing industry and that the protection of manufacturing industry contributed to the decline in construction? Does the Minister acknowledge this argument and also acknowledge that the Government's restrictive fiscal and monetary policies contribute to unemployment in the construction sector? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services and Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has any approach been made by the Government or Premier of Western Australia, in accordance with section 218A of the Electoral Act, for permission to hold the Kimberley by-election on the same day as the Federal poll? Has either the Minister or the Prime Minister any knowledge of such a request from the Government of Western Australia? 
I sought the call to speak very briefly on this matter in order to expose the shabby, shoddy logic in the argument presented by  Senator Rae.  If  Senator Rae  believes his own propaganda that this assistance will not be called upon this year he cannot possibly have any rational objection to voting for an amendment to increase the maximum level of support to $3 a box, $ 10 a box or for infinity. If he really believes his own assertion that the assistance will not be called upon he has no rational reason for voting against this amendment. We have seen from  Senator Rae  a repetition of the cant and humbug that Liberal Party members from Tasmania in the House of Representatives have always displayed on this issue. We know the esteem with which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  holds the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck).  The Prime Minister endearingly called him a grub and told him to crawl back into the apple. 
The other matter I wish to refute is  Senator Rae's  allegation that the Labor Government destroyed primary industry. I point out two facts for  Senator Rae  s edification. In the two full financial years that this Government has been in power net farm income has fallen. For the present financial year, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has forecast a further 16 per cent decline in net farm income. Regardless of whatever may have happened to primary industry under previous governments, that fact is pertinent to what is happening to primary industry under this Government. 
-The Australian Rural Bank Bill 1977 which is currently before the chamber is a Liberal-National Country Party gimmick. It was gestated by the private trading banks, dictated by them to the Government and aborted by the premature election which we are to have in a little more than four weeks. We are to have the premature election following the dissolution of the Parliament tomorrow notwithstanding the fact that the Appropriation Bills have not yet been passed and that the electoral laws at the time the Governor-General agreed to the dissolution were in a state of anarchy and in fact had to be twice amended to legalise the election which the Governor-General had approved. I return to the Bill and to the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Gietzelt.  The amendment is worth repeating. It states that the following words be added to the motion that the Bill be read a second time: 
The Bill dishonours the Prime Minister's November 1975 election promise, repeated as late as 11 September 1977, to establish a Rural Bank under a statutory corporation; 
There can be no disputing that statement. This action repudiates the Liberal-National Country Party election promises. It repudiates the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his electoral broadcast on 1 1 September last when he said that this 'will be a statutory body established by legislation which will be introduced this session'. The legislation has been introduced this session but it does not establish a statutory body. Clause 4 of the Bill authorises the establishment of a company by the name of the Australian Rural Bank Ltd. 
-It is to be set up by act of Parliament. I was hoping some legalistic casuist on the other side would come in with that interjection. It was established by statute but as this term is understood by the people to whom it applies, the farmers, a statutory corporation is a body like the Australian Wheat Board or the Australian Wool Corporation which operates independently of private institutions which may already be established in the field. This institution authorised to be established by this Bill does not do that. All it does is provide a source of funds- a fairly puny $45m at that- as a source of finance for the private banks and for other lenders who are not stipulated to lend on to farmers. To legal casuists it may be superficially true that this is statutory because it is established by statute but it is not a statutory corporation as the term is generally understood by the people to whom it applies. It certainly cannot be compared with such statutory corporations as the Australian Wheat Board and the Australian Wool Corporation. The Bill does not remove the obnoxious lender of last resort provisions which currently hamstring the Commonwealth Development Bank.  Senator Thomas  correctly stated that most primary producers see the Commonwealth bank as an unsatisfactory institution because it is only a lender of last resort. These provisions will still apply to the finance provided by this legislation. 
As for private enterprise, if this Government really believes its own rhetoric about private enterprise of course we would not have seen the Bill in the first place. The Government would have left this field to the private enterprise banks which, by its own tacit admission in introducing this BUI, are not doing the job they are supposed to do. They will not do it in the future either of course because they still effectively control government policy in this area as they control and dictate policy to the Government in the area of meat marketing. The legislation authorises the recruitment of $45m of capital, some from the trust fund established for income equalisation deposits. It does not specify who will hold the shares in this company, other than that the Government may hold some. It does not specify how many the Government will hold, who the other shareholders will be or what portion of the equity other shareholders will hold. It stipulates the people who are empowered to appoint four of the directors but it does not state how many directors there will be. It does not state who will appoint those other directors or by what method they will be appointed. 
Yes, Harry Miller is very likely to be one. That well-known National Party hack, Harry Miller, who has already been given 15 sinecures by this Government- which said there would not be any more jobs for the boyswill probably be appointed as a director of this institution as well. This establishes the point I made at the outset. This legislation is a gimmick, the form of which has been conceived by the private banks and dictated to this Government by the private banks. It has been aborted by this premature election. If it is not aborted, if it is not premature, why are not these facts spelt out? Why are not these vital provisions stipulated in the legislation? Who will subscribe the share capital- the equity capital- as distinct from the finance? Who will effectively control the company? Who will be the directors? How many directors will there be? Who will appoint them? 
-No, I certainly would not expect to be appointed as a director to a financial institution like this when there are so many boys waiting for jobs to be appointed as sinecures by their Liberal-National Country Party mates in this Parliament. The Harry Millers and the Paul Gerbers and all those people who were apologists for the Liberal and National Country Party m November 1975 and since are just waiting to cop their rewards for services rendered and services anticipated. Insofar as it has any meaning at all, what this institution will do is pick up the bad risks that the private trading banks are not willing to take on. It will not do that very successfully with a lending capacity of $45m. 
As my colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)-  I think he is still the honourable member for Melbourne Portsobserved in the House of Representatives two days ago, when the aggregate farm debt is in excess of $3 billion, the finance provided by this legislation amounts to a little more than one per cent of that figure. So in that context we can see how significant the lending capacity of the bank will be. Of course, if an amount greater than $45 m is provided for this institution, as was suggested by way of interjection by some National Country Party members of the House of Representatives, it begs the question which the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  keeps posing in a different context: If more funds are made available or are recruited for a particular purpose, what effect will that have on interest rates in general? This legislation, I repeat, dictated to this Government by the private banks, just as the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation legislation was dictated by the meat exporters, follows that consistent pattern which the Government has established. The second clause of the amendment moved by my colleague,  Senator Gietzelt,  states that the Bill does not comply with the policies enunciated quite clearly by farm organisations. I do not intend to refer to all of them. I shall refer to an announcement by the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council which certainly would be regarded by its own members as a politically conservative organisation, normally aligned with one of the two conservative parties represented in this Parliament. On 3 November the  President  of that organisation issued a statement criticising this legislation. He said: 
While welcoming the establishment of the Australian Rural Bank, it is most disappointing that so many of the details are still vague and undefined. 
That is an understatement, if ever I heard one. The reason why the details are vague and undefined is that this Government wants to fool the people at whom this legislation is directed. That is the major reason. The second reason is probably just the time factor- that is, the legislation was aborted by the premature electionand the Government's need to be seen to be doing something for the farm or rural community which has suffered a fall in net income of more than 20 per cent in the two years that this Government has been in power. The AWGC listed about seven specific items of criticism. One was that the Government did not stipulate the interest rates which were to be applied or the criteria for lending which were to be used; also the legislation did not provide the facility for producers to approach directly the Development Bank without being referred by trading banks. As I interpret the legislation, there is no way in which producers can approach the bank directly. If there is a way in which they can do that, I would be grateful if the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  would point it out in his closing remarks. I cannot see any provision for that in the legislation. The legislation specifically refers to providing funds for banks and other lenders who are not stipulated. Presumably, they are stock and station agents- or stock firms, as they are known in some parts of the country- who in north-western Tasmania and probably in other areas are charging from 16 per cent to 18 per cent interest on carry-on finance. 
There is a case for the establishment of a specialist financial institution for the rural sector but not- as I regret to say some people seem to believe- some institution which will provide unlimited amounts of finance at nominal rates of interest. There is no case for the establishment of such an institution, in my view, but there is a case for the establishment of a specialist institution providing a full range of banking services with provision for longer term lending than is normally available from commercial banks and seasonal finance in lieu of that frequently provided by stock and station agents at exorbitant rates of interest This legislation does not achieve either of those worthy objectives. It will provide finance under lender-of-last-resort conditions. It will not provide carry-on finance on a seasonal basis. It may provide finance to the stock and station agents to lend as they have in the past. 
What this Government should have done and what the third clause of the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Gietzelt  seeks to have done in the next session of Parliament is to expand the facilities of the Commonwealth Development Bank or to set up separate wing of the Commonwealth Development Bank. That Bank already has established the branch infrastructure which is necessary to provide such facilities. It could set up a special section to provide direct lending facilities and a full range of banking services free from lender-of-last-resort restrictions. This legislation provides nothing that is worth while. It is another pre-election gimmick. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry concerns sugar prices, particularly the prolonged uncertainty regarding future prices for the Malaysian contract, the effect that will have on the incomes of sugar growers and the current application by the industry for an increase in domestic prices. Does he know what price has been negotiated for the future under the Malaysian contract? If not, will that price be known, considered and publicly stated by the Government when it finally makes a decision on the application by the industry for a domestic price increase? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, after nearing  Senator Missen  's views on international trade and the takeover of East Timor by Indonesia, his condemnation of the highest in the land who selectively leak for cynical political gains the contents of reports, and his repudiation of the crazy logic displayed by  Senator Walters  earlier today, I note with some satisfaction that the Liberal Party of Australia is not entirely bereft of conscience and intelligence. But those attributes, I note with some sadness, are almost extinct. It must be a severe embarrassment to  Senator Missen  to be a member of a party led by such a man as  Mr Fraser  and which includes  Senator Walters. 

 Senator Messner in his contribution to this debate proposed that the criterion by which the success and efficiency of a government could be judged was that government's success in controlling consumer prices. It is an empirical fact that Western Australia- which when the present Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, came into office had the lowest consumer prices in Australia and the lowest rate of increase- now has the highest consumer prices in Australia, and ever since September 1974 it has the highest rate of increase. When  Sir Charles  Court became Premier the consumer price index in Perth was 142 and the weighted average of the six State capitals was 148. In Perth the consumer price index is now 242 and in the six State capitals it is 239. It has increased by 70 per cent in Western Australia and by 61 per cent nationally. So I note that by the criterion proclaimed by  Senator Messner  the Court Government in Western Australia is the most incompetent government in the country. I will not argue with  Senator Messner  about his assessment of the Court Government. 
The opening Speech made by the GovernorGeneral yesterday shamelessly repeated the unfulfilled platitudinous promises and the, by now, demonstrable falseness of its 1976 predecessor. We have heard it all before. But the cargo that the first speech promised has not been delivered. The cargo that the second speech promises will not be delivered either. It is interesting to look back on the Speech of 17 February 1 976, the opening Speech to the Parliament of the first Fraser Government. Through the mouth of the then Governor-General, the Government said that there could again be jobs for all who wanted to work. Since such a statement was made, 102,000 extra people are looking for work which they cannot find. As part of this approach, that is, a welfare approach, the then Government said: 'We will place great emphasis on directing welfare assistance to those in real need'. Twelve days ago this Government appointed to an ambassadorial position a person who draws and will continue to draw a Governor-General's pension of $650 a week in addition to a salary of $570 a week. So much for directing assistance to those in real need! 
The then Government in 1976 said that it would 'expand job opportunities in the private sector'. I will return to that later. Turning to rural matters the Government said: 'The Government has taken action to assist the rural community to overcome its present crisis'. What action has the Government taken? Since that statement was made net farm incomes have fallen by 20 per cent in real terms. Even  Mr Anthony,  I note in his speech to the National Country Party made on 18 February, said that rural incomes had fallen by 30 per cent in the last three years. I am gratified that  Mr Anthony  finally acknowledges the truth. Since three years ago when the Labor Government was in power rural incomes have fallen by 30 per cent. What action has this Government taken to offset that decline? If it has taken any action it obviously has not been effective and it does not contemplate any new initiatives. It was further claimed in 1976-1 again use the Government's words- that: 
The Government is pursuing energetically proposals for a Rural Bank and a Farm Income Reserve Fund. 
It pursued its proposals for a Rural Bank so energetically in fact that in the dying days of the previous Parliament it introduced legislation, which had been written for it and had been directed to it by the Australian Bankers Association, to set up an institution which it called a 'Rural Bank', one which does not provide a full range of specialist banking services, is subject to the iniquitous lender of last resort provisions, and which still has not been established. So much for the Government's energetic pursuits of that goal! Now the Prime Minister lectures the world on the virtues of free trade; he who in December last made a primary virtue of virtual import competition. What credibility in the councils of the world has such a man? 
Turning to the Governor-General's Speech delivered yesterday, I note that in the very first paragraph of the Speech the Prime Minister bignoted himself by having included a reference to the largest gathering of government leaders ever to meet in the country. That is a reference to the farcical Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting. The Speech then proclaims that our nation's prospects are limitless. Reference is then made to the Government's priorities, which include: 
To build on the progress we have made in the last two years, defeat inflation and unemployment, and restore full economic health to our country. 
Those words come from a Government which has presided over an increase of 102,000 in the number of unemployed in the two years in which it has been in office. Returning to a favoured theme of the Prime Minister, it was then stated that government spending had been brought under control. In 1 975 the then Opposition and the then Opposition Leader in particular made a major political issue of the size of the deficit. If we look at the deficit for the current financial year we now find that, by the Government's own admission and by the admission of the new Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  the deficit will overshoot the estimate by several hundred million dollars. 
The current estimate of the size of the deficit, as calculated by this Government, is about $3,000m, and quite possibly higher. If we make the appropriate adjustments for the cosmetic accountancy tricks to which this Government has resorted in calculating the deficit in 1975-76 and in this financial year and we add into that $3 billion the $300m Telecom capital raising which has been transferred from the public accounts to the private loan market with absolutely no effect on the money supply or on anything else except what is written in those books, and we add the $200m which the Fraser Government shamelessly pre-paid to the States on 30 June 1 976 in order artificially to inflate the deficit figure for that financial year, we find that in fact the likely deficit confronting the nation today is higher than the deficit actually recorded in 1975-76; a deficit which the present Prime Minister then claimed was absolutely catastrophic. Of course, I hasten to dissociate myself from the primitive and erroneous economic views expressed by the Prime Minister on this matter. I just note that he stands condemned out of his own mouth. Yesterday's speech continued: 
This Government's economic policies will continue to be based on: Rigorous restraint of Government expenditure so as to provide for longer term expansion in the private sector. 
Since January 1976, when this Government came to power, the number of people in private employment has declined in fact by no fewer than 198,000. 'Expansion of the private sector', as defined by this Government and by this Prime Minister, means a contraction of nearly 200,000 in the level of employment. As the  Australian Financial Review  editorial today noted when assessing the puerile speech which we heard yesterday: 
As yet there is no evidence of doubt within the Government as to the private sector's intrinsic strength unilaterally to create the conditions for an economic take-off. 
The private sector, the stimulation of which this Government proclaimed to be its primary policy objective, is in decline. There is every indication that it will continue to be in decline.  Mr President,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing the original and the seasonally adjusted level of private employment in January and October 1976 and in October 1977. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="076232197802224_54_0.jpg"></graphic>

The opening Speech continued: 
My Government rejects the notion that there can be a trade-off between inflation and unemployment. 
As the  Australian Financial Review  editorial again noted, that statement is contradicted by the Government's statements in other areas. The  A Australian Financial Review  commented: 
The two, unemployment and inflation, are, of course, connected.  Mr Fraser  may believe that there is no relationship between increased unemployment and the breaking of the inflationary psychology. If he does he is the only one in Canberra. 
The Government asserts that there is a positive correlation between the level of inflation and the level of unemployment. Everybody else asserts virtually the opposite; namely, that there is a negative correlation between the two. But it is the policy proclamation or the doctrinal belief of this Government, as proclaimed in yesterday's Speech, that there is a positive correlation between the rate of inflation and the level of unemployment. For the purpose of this analysis, let us accept that as true. The Government claims that inflation has fallen and is continuing to fall. It follows logically that if both those premises are correct the level of unemployment will be coming down with the rate of inflation. The level of unemployment is going up, and is going up at an accelerating rate. The Speech then states: 
Substantial tax cuts have already been achieved through tax indexation . . . 
Tax indexation, even if fully applied, does not represent tax cuts. In fact, tax indexation applied at the same rate as the increase in earnings ensures that the proportion of income paid in tax remains constant. The tax indexation factor has been less than 100 per cent because this Government has fiddled around with it to make corrections for the effects of devaluation. It has admitted that in July next year it is going to use only a 50 per cent indexation factor anyway. 
Later the Speech referred to the alleged concern of this Government for the unfortunate victims of circumstance. On Monday of last week we got the first instalment of this Government's concern in that respect when, by order of the Department of Social Security, directed by the Government, a blitzkrieg was launched against the unemployed in an attempt to intimidate people from applying for the unemployment benefit and to encourage them not to register for that benefit so that there would be a cosmetically attractive and false adjustment to the unemployment statistics. The next thing which we can anticipate in this area, I predict, is an abolition of the publication of Commonwealth Employment Service statistics altogether. The Government will solve the unemployment problem by defining it out of existence. 
Last week at the CHOGRM conference the Prime Minister finally recognised the severe difficulties imposed on the Australian economy by the continuing international recession. Whilst it is pleasing again to note that a moment of partial enlightenment has arrived for the Prime Minister, it is interesting to contrast that admission with his bold assertion at the ANZUS conference in January 1975, when he said: 
When political leaders say the present situation cannot be helped, it is part of a world situation, they are expressing the futility of their own leadership when if they were men of real stature, they would be saying, 'we can overcome'. 
I suppose it is not really surprising that that repudiation finally surfaced a couple of weeks ago. Public morality a couple of weeks ago also plummeted to a new depth when the architect of the assorted repudiations which I have been citing in what was, even for him, an act of breathtaking cynicism, appointed the ambassador to the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation. The Prime Minister, who speaks of concern for the needy and the need to concentrate government assistance on the needy, resurrected a position which he had made a virtue of abolishing 18 or 20 months ago. He appointed to fill that position a vulgar racecourse drunk, a drunk who will continue to draw his $650 a week pension in addition to his $570 a week salary.  Senator Withers,  in a feeble apologia this afternoon, in answer to a question from  Senator Button  was, if I may borrow an expression, caught with his pants down. He tried to explain away this extraordinary appointment on the grounds that trade demands at the Embassy in Paris and the increasing workload on the Embassy had made it necessary to hive-off portion of the Ambassador's and of the Embassy's previous responsibilities.  Senator Withers  was somewhat stunned, if I may say so, when  Senator Button  then asked him why 26 people had been retrenched from the Embassy staff as an economic measure. The Prime Minister has insulted the nation. Australia will be represented in an international forum by the person who made such a disgusting spectacle of himself at Flemington Racecourse last November. Everybody knows he did because six million people saw it. 
I do not know what inference about some former senator  Senator Rae  is trying to make. However, we did not resurrect a position which we had made a virtue of abolishing. The Prime Minister in a Press release in an even more feeble apologia for this reprehensible action of his, said that  Sir John  Kerr was admirably qualified for the post of Ambassador. Evidently, from that assertion, we must assume that the primary qualification for an ambassador is many years of chronic alcoholism. This is a pay-off as everybody knows. 

 - Senator Rae apparently is denying that  Sir John  Kerr was drunk at Flemington Racecourse on 1 November 1977. 1 shall leave judgment on that matter to the six million people who saw him. Yesterday we saw what  Senator Button  succinctly described as a publicity stunt, rather than a security operation, outside Parliament House. Of course, everybody deplores the shocking loss of life which followed the planting and subsequent explosion of the bomb in Sydney. But in the hysteria which the Prime Minister has attempted to whip up over this issue, let it not be forgotten that if security services such as the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Special Branch in South Australia- I do not know about special branches elsewhere- were not so busy and did not focus so much of their attention and resources on collecting files on Labor Party politicians and then either lying to their governments about the existence of those files or trying to flog them off to journalists and Liberal Party politicians with the intention of publishing them and with the further intention of discrediting those Labor Party politicians, if they were not devoting so much of their resources to those reprehensible activities, they might more effectively be able to control terrorists and potential terrorists. The Prime Minister has displayed what the  Australian Financial Review  described as an unhealthy obsession with security matters. It is quite obvious that he relishes a military type command position. Given that fact and his fervent belief that communists should always be stopped with guns, it is a great tragedy that he did not join the Army in 1950 and go to Korea instead of picking up a third class degree at Oxford University.  Mr Fraser's  brilliant military career, like that of his mentor Robert Menzies, was cut short by the outbreak of war. The last matter I wish to raise in relation to the GovernorGeneral's Speech is the Government's commitment to introduce what it called national regulation of companies and the securities industry. The Government's tardiness in this matter, one might note, is thoroughly reprehensible. 
Having blocked the Labor Party's attempt to cover this matter legislatively in 1975 the Government has done nothing for two years. It now says that it will do something in the future. We will see. The need for such effective legislation, of course, has been amply demonstrated in the report presented by the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange of which  Senator Rae,  who interjected a moment ago, was  Chairman.  I want to dwell on some of the information contained in that report concerning the sordid story of a company called Burrill Investments Pty Ltd and the association with that company of many prominent members of the Liberal Party. The company was established in 1969 by two gentlemen called Burrill and Jones who were also principals of another company and were consulting geologists to Poseidon NL. In a document, a return of the allotment of shares, a photocopy of which I have procured from the Corporate Affairs Commission in Perth, it is revealed that on 22 May 1 969 some eight persons and a company were allotted shares in Burrill Investment Pty Ltd. One of those persons was Noel Ashley CrichtonBrowne who is currently  President  of the Liberal Party in Western Australia. 
In relation to that point of order,  Mr President,  I point out that I mentioned no charges.  Senator Rae  mentioned charges. I am giving the Senate details of an allotment of shares to eight persons and one proprietory company on 22 May 1969. 1 mentioned nothing about any charges, nor do I intend to do so. 
I make no comment on any charges which are pending. On the same day some 3,250 shares were allocated to a Peter John Crichton-Browne who is a brother of Noel Ashley Crichton-Browne - 
I wish to speak to the point of order. No charges have been made against Peter John Browne; nor have any charges been made against a woman who in 1961 was Esther Grace Stevens and is now  Mrs Crichton-Brown,  and who was granted 2,000 shares in the company at the same time; or against Norma Rosa Stevens, her mother, who was allotted 2,000 shares in the company at the same time; or Malcolm Scott Holdings Pty Ltd, the family investment company of ex-Liberal Party  Senator Malcolm  Scott, which was granted 1,000 shares in the company at that time. 
I am aware of that Standing Order,  Mr President.  Again I submit that I mentioned nothing about the charges, and cast no reflection upon the possible outcome of the charges, which I understand are pending against one person. I mentioned this in the context of the necessity to have adequate securities legislation. This company was established by people who were consulting geologists to Poseidon. As  Senator Rae  very well knows, because there are 50 pages on this in the report of the committee of which he was  chairman,  Messrs Burrill and Jones were on 25 September 1 969 in receipt of an assay report from the Windarra strike. They bought in thousands of Poseidon shares when they knew the assay and the public did not. Subsequently, according to the report of  Senator Rae  's committee, the company made a profit of $ 1.3m on the deal in a period of a few months. Messrs Burrill and Jones gave conflicting evidence to the Committee subsequently. Five of the people who were allotted shares on that particular day have very close connections with the Liberal Party in Western Australia, and perhaps that has something to do with  Senator Rae's  sensitivity on this particular matter. 
I withdraw any imputations against  Senator Rae  or his Committee. It nevertheless remains a fact that these people, who have very close associations with the Liberal Party in Western Australia, were shareholders in this reprehensible company. 
Tonight I wish to speak briefly on a matter brought to my attention some months ago. I have been informed that the Australian Copyright Act currently precludes Australian booksellers from purchasing directly from publishers overseas. They are compelled to purchase through the Australian agents of the overseas publisher and frequently pay prices higher than the retail prices for the same books in the United Kingdom. Government departments, libraries and private citizens are permitted to purchase directly from overseas, but booksellers are not. I understand that the previous Attorney-General was asked to amend sections 37 and 38 of the Copyright Act to permit booksellers, like other people and institutions, to purchase directly from overseas. If I have been correctly informed, the existing sections 37 and 38 constitute a restrictive trade practice of a type which I would expect to be anathema to the Government. I request the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to consider amending the sections in the way suggested and to advise the Senate if and when it can expect some action. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It refers to the answer he gave to  Senator Wriedt  last Wednesday in which he said that the Government's $2,000m borrowing program was successful. He said:   . . it has been successful because under the overall money management plan of this country we have achieved, together with the balance of payments, a rectification of the recession which occurred some four years ago. 
In the phrase 'money management plan  . . together with the balance of payments ' was he implying that the continuing negative balance of payments and consequential rundown of overseas reserves are restricting the money supply? If not, what did he mean? Is a negative balance of payments which restricts the money supply a phenomenon welcomed by the Government? 
by leave-  I  move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I  seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note  or  the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer and I draw his attention to the fact that in its decision yesterday the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission pointed out that one of the major factors influencing it was that we are, to use its words, in a time of economic recession. I ask the Minister to contrast that statement with the answer he gave  Senator Wriedt  a week ago in which he stated that various government policies had achieved, in his words, a rectification of the recession which occurred some four years ago. Is the Minister's view at variance with the Government view on whether there is a recession? Does the Government's view on recession contradict that of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? If so, does the Government believe that the whole basis of the Commission's decision was erroneous? 
My question to the Minister representing the Treasurer refers to the answer given to my question last Tuesday in which he claimed that what he called a spectacular drop in inflation and a fall in interest rates would, in his words, taken together, 'work towards a better conjunction of balance of payments'. I ask the Minister how lower interest rates are likely to induce a positive movement in the balance of payments. 
I enter the debate very briefly simply to observe that the tough talk and sanctimonious posturing of  Senator Sim  has nothing to do with the way he really acts. When  Mr Fraser  squeaks, he hops. 
My question to the Minister representing the Treasurer refers to his answer to me on 28 February in which he asserted that cost increases and tariff reductions in the 1973 period had in his words 'costed 
Australia out of manufacturing and export industries' and 'brought in a flow of imports, with a disastrous effect on the balance of payments'. The Treasurer then claimed that by contrast we now have, to use his words again 'a better conjunction of the balance of payments '. I ask how he reconciles these assertions with the record current deficit of $ 1,354m for the seven months ended January 1978, and the continuing downward trend in foreign reserves, in spite of huge overseas borrowings ? 
Subject to the agreement of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  I suggest that this Bill be debated cognately with the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill. 
As an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Industries Assistance Commission Amendment Bill, I move: 
At end of motion, add-  but the Senate deplores the actions of the Government: 
in not having a medium or long term economic strategy, including a viable manufacturing policy upon which to base general and consistent guidelines necessary for, among other things, the proper functioning of the Industries Assistance Commission; and 
in threatening the basic independence of the Industries Assistance Commission, by its emphasis upon narrow and variable guidelines, and by its consistent failure to appreciate the advisory role intended for the Industries Assistance Commission. 
The amendment is self-explanatory. In short, the Government has no industry policy. For a policy it substitutes a series of ad hoc prime ministerial reactions which ossify the economy's structural imbalance and therefore aggravate the long-term problems. The customary rationale for the shortsighted reactions of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is the maintenance of employment and the support of the private sector. This is the reaction of the Chief Minister of a government which has presided over an absolute decline in the number of people in private employment and an increase in registered unemployed of more than 100,000 since it came to office. 
As the last annual report of the Industries Assistance Commission lucidly demonstrated, the Government, or more accurately the Prime Minister, is oblivious to the inflationary effects of its knee jerk reactions and the adverse effects of its actions on employment in other sectors in its attempt to kill off the inflation which has been induced by its policies. For example, the LAC in its last annual report estimated that 30,000 to 40,000 jobs had been destroyed in the construction industry due to the restrictive fiscal and monetary policies followed by the Government. This situation, of course, has had repercussions on other industries. The  Sydney Morning Herald  editorial of 27 January last, in response to one of  Mr Fraser's  comments on international trade, noted: 
Last week  Mr Fraser  launched a strong attack on the EEC for its threat to impose restraints on imports of steel. 
The editorial continued: 
He is quite right, of course. But Australia is in no position to lecture others on the virtues of free trade. In the election just passed  Mr Fraser  attempted to win votes by branding his opponents as 'free traders'. 
The editorial further continued: 
It is ironic that, on the day  Mr Fraser  was admonishing the Europeans, the Philippines Government expressed its concern that the policy announced during the election campaign would virtually extend for another three years the 'temporary' protection being given to several inefficient Australian industries. If a round of beggar-thy-neighbour protectionism does get under way, Australia will have played its own small part. 
The totality- to borrow a word much beloved by the former Treasurer- of Fraserian economics is a circular exercise in futility. On the pretext of saving jobs  Mr Fraser  causes inflation. On the pretext of controlling inflation he destroys jobs. As the last annual report of the IAC noted, increased protection given to three already highly protected Australian industries had added between 2 per cent and 3.5 per cent to the consumer price index. In an attempt to kill off that inflation the Government's policy has destroyed a greater number of jobs in other industries. Moreover the IAC report also revealed that employment has not been maintained in those industries in spite of the increased protection granted and in spite of the very significant contribution to inflation which that protection had induced. Moreover the level of employment had in fact fallen in those industries so the final result of the Government's misguided policies was that increased protection was transformed not into increased employment or even in maintaining the existing level of employment but into higher profits. I suggest it is no coincidence that two of those industries recorded returns on ' funds employed of 22 per cent as against 13 per cent for manufacturing industry in total. The Prime Minister very clearly spelt out his own beliefs in these matters. For his beliefs we can read the Government's policies in relation to this matter as set out in a major address which the Prime Minister delivered on 26 August last. He stated: 
Our consideration of that report - 
That is the IAC report on textiles, clothing and footwear-  and earlier  reports  has led to the Government taking certain actions. Sufficient assistance will be given to ensure that there is no reduction in the level of activity, or employment, in the textiles, clothing and footwear industries for the next three years. 
If that is not an invitation to profiteer then it constitutes such an invitation which those industries have clearly taken up. This is demonstrated by the 22 per cent of funds employed as against 13 per cent for manufacturing industry as a whole. We find similar sentiments written into clause 10 of the Industries Assistance Commission Amendment Bill. It states that the Commission: 
shall report on the level of assistance required to ensure that the level of activity and employment in the industry or group or groups of industries to which the report relates is not less than that which existed at the time when the reference was made. 
Of course, previous protection policies have failed to maintain the level of employment. But perhaps that is a good clause as it demonstrates the absurdity of the goal which the Prime Minister is seeking. This BUI proclaims that he seeks to maintain forever a given level of employment in a particular industry. If one looks back one can imagine what the consequences of such a policy would have been if applied to buggy makers and harness makers in the early part of this century. One should clearly see that the goal which the Prime Minister seeks is unattainable. If one cannot see that one can certainly see- it has already been quantified- that the Government 's policies have failed in the past to achieve their stated objective of maintaining the existing level of employment. Superficially, much of this Bill appears to be reasonable or even innocuous. Under a reasonable government or Prime Minister, perhaps it would be. But in the hands of the Prime Minister as arbitrary, as furtive and as meddlesome as  Mr Fraser,  it may be far from innocuous. The major changes proposed by the Bill are found in clause 8, which amends section 22 of the principal Act, and especially clause 8 (3) which states: 
The Minister may, by notice in writing to the Commission, give directions as to the priorities to be observed by the Commission in having regard to the matters mentioned in subsection ( I ) or contained in any notice under sub-section (2) and the Commission shall comply with any such directions. 
The second reading speech when dealing with the same matter stated: 
One of the purposes of the Bill is to ensure that recommendations of the Commission are made in the light of Government policy. . . . 
One might ask: What policy? A policy has yet to be articulated. More importantly, this obviously gives the Minister-in the present context that means the Prime Minister- greater control and direction over the Industries Assistance Commission. Something which  Mr Fraser  normally appears to overlook entirely is that all policy decisions- quite correctly- ultimately are the prerogative of the Government. The IAC has an advisory role only. It is probably reasonable- it may even be necessary- that a reasonable government should have the power to tell the Commission what its policies are, if it has any policies, and to ask the Commission to take account of those policies. For that reason the Opposition will not oppose the Bill. But we are apprehensive. Knowing what the policy of this Government is and knowing that it has won whatever assistance it seeks before an inquiry is even held, witnesses will be reluctant, to say the least, to produce for the Commission the sort of evidence which the Commission is rightly entitled to have in order to make a sensible determination. Under the de facto, one man government which we now regrettably have, we fear that the new powers may be misappropriated by the Prime Minister to intimidate or even emasculate the IAC and to effectively silence the institution best equipped to do the economic research which will question and sometimes discredit the economic policies of the Prime Minister who is not noted for his tolerance of informed criticism. While  Mr Fraser  remains Prime Minister, there is a considerable danger that when a matter is referred to the Commission, the practices of the McEwen era will be resurrected and the recommendations will be written into the reference. The pathetic condition of the potentially efficient motor industry is a legacy of that policy 
Revelations in the last two weeks lead to speculation about even worse possibilities. We now know that the Prime Minister, contrary to the specialist recommendation of his permanent heads, and in defiance of the earlier decision of his own Cabinet, intervened arbitrarily at the instigation of IBM in the letting of a large government contract. If this man's arbitrary power is increased, as it will be by this legislation, will the IAC be used as a tool to advance the business prestige and interests of Andrew Grimwade or some of  Mr Fraser  's other cronies from the Melbourne Club? The real problem, 1 suppose, is not the Bill itself but a Prime Minister who will, when he chooses, take the Bill over, as he takes over everything else in his one-man Government. It increases the potential for misuse of arbitrary power by a Prime Minister and Government which are bereft of a policy, or even ideas for a policy, on industry and employment. 
The Bill extends the potential for providing temporary assistance, by amendments to the Temporary Assistance Authority. Those amendments allow for the so-called government policy to be fed into IAC inquiries at their commencement and, therefore, to bias the impartiality of the Commission's assessment. That government policy is to be used to grant usually substantial levels of assistance, of a socalled temporary nature, lasting up to two years, regardless of the recommendations of the TAA on that matter. The extension of temporary assistance for periods of up to two years without a full inquiry being held must lead to such questions as: What is temporary assistance; when does temporary assistance become permanent assistance; what new circumstances justify the provision of assistance, without a full inquiry, for two years? Surely an inquiry could be held within 12 months. 
Before closing, I note the complete silence, or at least public silence, today on this matter of the National Country Party. It is well known that farm organisations generally - 
Perhaps  Senator Tehan  is going to make a speech on this shortly. Perhaps he will tell us whether he is speaking for the farm organisations, which overwhelmingly support the Industries Assistance Commission, which overwhelmingly support the principle of a completely independent authority which is not subject to ministerial directive, or to having recommendations written into references. Perhaps he will tell us whether he is going to support those farm organisations which his party claims to represent and demand that the independence and intergity of the IAC be maintained. If  Senator Tehan  is going to do that, I gleefully anticipate listening to him do it, but until now the National Country Party has been silent and I suggest that for the rest of this debate will likewise remain silent on this issue. Will the National Country Party speak up for all those farm organisations which have demanded that the independence and integrity of the IAC be maintained? I suggest that it will not speak up now; I suggest that it will not speak up later; that it will not act in any way to curb the arbitrary powers of, or the arbitrary misuse of power by, the Prime Minister in the future as in the past. 
The attitude of the Labor Party to this Bill has from the beginning been somewhat ambivalent, I suppose, in that we recognise that under a reasonable government there is justification, perhaps some might say even necessity, for the consideration of government policy by the IAC when it is writing its reports and making its recommendations. The problem is that, under the present Prime Minister, those provisions are liable to be misused. On balance we have decided not to oppose the Bill. We have moved the amendment in the hope, however forlorn, that it will prod the Government into some activity, prod it into producing, after nearly two and a half years in office, an industry policy, of which it is at present entirely bereft. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. The Minister may not know that the Treasurer has just stated in the House of Representatives that the Budget deficit is shooting up above the Government's estimate because the Government has been more successful in controlling inflation than it expected to be. Given the fact that for more than two years Government spokesmen, especially the Prime Minister and the former Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  have asserted that a rising deficit or, as they used to put it, a deficit out of control, causes inflation, does the Government expect a burst of new inflation caused by its ballooning deficit? Alternatively, has the new Treasurer repudiated the Fraser-Lynch doctrine that a rising deficit equals rising inflation? 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide $2. 5m for two specific projects associated with water conservation and distribution and flood control in  New  South Wales and Queensland and also to authorise future payments for the same purposes under criteria which are specified in the Bill. Before I continue, I think I should correct a couple of statements made  by  the second  speaker  for the Government in the House of Representatives on this Bill, the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite).  He said that this Bill is an example of what the Government 's federalism policy is all about. This Bill of course provides for a tied grant to the States. The grant is made available under certain conditions and, as such, is the antithesis of what the  new  federalism is supposed to be all about. He also stated- evidently he had not read the Bill- that it provides for a contribution of $200m over five years, lt provides for no such thing. It authorises payments without further Acts of Parliament for water resource projects in accordance with the criteria specified in the Bill. It does not appropriate $200m. 
Of the $2.5m that the Bill does appropriate, Sim is for  New  South Wales, mostly for flood control work, and the other $ 1 ,5m is for the completion of a part completed irrigation scheme in Queensland. The sum of $lm was the subject to legislation introduced but not finalised before the Parliament was dissolved last year. The other $1.5m, for which this Bill makes an appropriation, and the $200m promised, which is something separate from this Bill, over five years for future water resource development projects, are two specimens of the grab bag of promises conjured up by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  during the weekend before he delivered his policy speech last year, when he thought that he was in considerable danger of losing the election. The $1.5m appropriation and the $200m broader undertaking were two of the 16 bribes hastily put together. They were described by the  West Australian  newspaper, with its characteristic editorial objectivity, as having the rarity of jack black jelly beans. That is, the 16 hastily conceived bribes in total had the rarity of black jack jelly beans, in the view of whoever wrote the editorial in the  West A Australian 
Apart from the pork barrelling origin of onehalf of this Bill, the Australian Labor Party has grave reservations about the open-ended nature of clause 7 (2) which authorises non-specific future payments for water resources projects. It is true, of course, that parliamentary appropriations will be required for such payments. Those appropriations could be tacked on to the annual Supply Bills. The Parliament could then only stop pork barrelling appropriations, like the Ord River scheme appropriation of 1 967, by stopping the Supply Bills. I and others had hoped to see an end to such parliamentary vandalism. If the Parliament passes this legislation in its original form it will have surrendered more of its authority to the Executive Government. I therefore move an amendment in the same wording as was moved by my colleague in the House of Representatives, the honourable member for Blaxland,  Mr Keating.  It states: 
At end of motion, add-', but the Senate is of the opinion that separate enactments should have been provided for each water resources project'. 
The  Clerk  was supplied with copies of the amendment last week. I neglected to see whether they were still with him. I gather that they are. The two projects for which funds are appropriated by this Bill I have already detailed briefly. Flood mitigation in New South Wales was the subject of legislation introduced but not proceeded with before the Parliament was dissolved last November. The second project was the completion of the Gin Gin channel in Queensland which will provide water for the urban area of Bundaberg and for cane field irrigation. By the generally appallingly historical standards which apply to irrigation schemes, the irrigation scheme component of the project in Queensland is economically sound, though it is superficially incongruous to provide more water for cane irrigation when the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  admitted in the House of Representatives 12 days ago that two million tonnes of cane would be left to stand over or be destroyed next year. 
The cost benefit analysis on the project was done some years ago. It revealed that the project should be sound in the longer term. In fact, the project would have been completed by now had the Queensland Government not defaulted on its financial obligations in accordance with the policy of economic sabotage which the Premier appeared to be following between 1973 and 1975. The sometimes sordid and sometimes stupid history of irrigation projects in Australia amply demonstrate the need for a more critical and enlightened scrutiny of the ecological and economic consequences of federal irrigation schemes. The salinity problem which afflicts the Murray Basin is caused by irrigation. There is also a very high correlation between irrigation or products produced in irrigation areas and our chronic problem labour intensive industries which suffer from surplus capacity as well as from a comparative disadvantage. That surplus capacity has been induced substantially by past irrigation schemes. 
I have some sympathy for the Victorian Government's current efforts to obtain a larger share of the national market entitlement for manufactured dairy products. But that Government has been responsible for some of the industry's surplus capacity. Almost unbelievably it has settled new farmers on irrigated dairy farms in new irrigation areas within the last three years. Of course, at that time the Victorian Government was stuck with the legacy of  Sir Henry  Bolte's fundamentalist belief that Murray River water should be used to add to surplus capacity of problem agricultural industries and desalinate the Murray Basin but that, in no circumstances, must that water go to Melbourne. Fortunately that Bolte-type ignorance or dogma is less fashionable than it was once, with the possible exception of some highly placed people in the Western Australian Government. 
Demands for water for domestic and industrial use, plus a better understanding of the economic and ecological realities associated with irrigation schemes, have led to a far more critical appraisal of the projects before funds are appropriated. I note with some irony the comments made on past funding for irrigation schemes in the House of Representatives by the honourable member for Dawson,  Mr Braithwaite,  and the honourable member for Wakefield,  Mr Giles.  They made their comments about that most spectacular and expensive of all Australian monuments to politicians megalomania, the Ord River scheme.  Mr Braithwaite  said: 
. Australia can no longer afford such blunders as the Ord River Dam. 
The honourable member for Wakefield spoke on this subject at some greater length and said in a more colloquial way: 
If some States are so dopey and so lacking in foresight as to squander all their funds on, shall we say, a second Ord River, that is their funeral. 
He added: 
I was always - 
That is, he- and so was I, for that matter-  highly suspicious of the Ord River Scheme and, being wise in hindsight, what a white elephant we now have on our plate. I say with deep respect to my colleagues from Western Australia, I do not believe that project was ever studied properly. I do not believe its cost effectiveness was ever established. 

 Mr Giles is wrong about one thing. The cost effectiveness of the Ord River scheme was in fact established. It was established in considerable detail and published in a book called  The Northern Myth.  The problem was not that its cost efficiency had not been established but that the present Premier of Western Australia who was then the responsible Minister thought he could bend reality in accord with his will. That was the problem. It was not that the knowledge was not available; it was that the knowledge that was available was ignored by the politicians who were in power, and by one politician in particular. While at that time and since the Premier of Western Australia has been raiding the water supply capital funds to give substance to his personal fantasies for the development of the Ord River the water supplies in the rest of the State have been neglected. 
For 16 of the last 19 years  Sir Charles  Court has been Premier of Western Australia or the Minister responsible for industrial development and water supplies. At the end of that 19-year period Perth and the southern half of the State generally have had placed on them the most severe water restrictions ever experienced. 
I know there has been a drought. There have been two droughts in succession. There has been a complete ban on the use of sprinklers in the Perth metropolitan area and in all areas serviced by the comprehensive water scheme. Therefore the ban covers virtually the entire south-west of the State.  Senator Thomas  has reminded me that there was a very dry winter last year. There was also a very dry winter in 1976- the year before. The present restrictions would have been much less severe or there would have been less need for the present draconic restrictions if moderate restrictions had been applied during the summer of 1976-77. Those restrictions were not applied because of the cynical opportunism of the Court Government which was facing an election and which did not want the public to be appraised of the fact that the Government which claims to be a government of development and so on had failed in one of its primary developmental obligations, namely to provide an adequate water supply. Water restrictions were not imposed for the summer of 1976-77 when they really should have been because the Government was facing an election and it did not want its crumbling clay feet to be exposed. 
Before concluding my speech I warn against what might be a very much graver danger for Western Australia. My warning concerns the possibility that the present Premier may be turned loose on the Arab loan market to borrow $300m which he seeks to fulfil his personal fantasies for the Ord River- that is, to establish a sugar industry producing about 220,000 tonnes of refined sugar. It is not a new idea, incidentally; he came up with it in the early 1 960s, abandoned it and resurrected it in the last couple of years. If the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is foolish enough to let the Premier have his head on the Arab loan market- I note from an article in last Saturday's Press that it is quite clear the Prime Minister at this stage does not intend to be so foolish- or if at some time he should change his mind and allow the Premier to go out and to borrow $300m overseas to establish a sugar industry in the Ord River area, we Western Australians will be in the position where we will be producing a commodity which has a minimum production cost of about $300 a tonne and a marginal market value of about $ 1 50 a tonne. Of course, not only will we be saddled then with the existing capital cost of the Ord River scheme and the $3m it costs annually to maintain the handful of farmers who are still making some pretence of carrying out agriculture there, but also we will be saddled with enormous losses on an annual production of a substantial quantity of sugar cane. 
The history of the Ord River scheme underlines more than that of any other irrigation scheme, certainly any recent irrigation scheme, the need for critical parliamentary scrutiny of the appropriation of funds of this nature. The appropriation did not receive that sort of scrutiny in 1967 although, given the political circumstances at the time, it probably would not have made any difference. Funds ultimately were provided by the Federal Government of the day to secure a fifth Senate seat in Western Australia. The sorry history of the Ord River project demonstrates that this Parliament should not abdicate its responsibility to scrutinise these matters to the extent that it will be doing if it passes the Bill in its original form. Therefore, I hope that all the honourable senators who recognise that this Parliament should not surrender more of its authority to the Executive government will vote for the amendment which I have moved. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Is the amendment seconded? 
asked the Minister for Science, on notice, on 7 March 1978. 
Has the Australian Research Grants Committee allocated $2,650 to  Dr B.  J. Stoddart to study the social effects of the ' bodyline ' Test Cricket series. 
What criteria are used by the Australian Research Grants Committee in deciding which applications to fund. 
Which of the criteria used in determining grants did the grant to  Dr Stoddart  meet. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs which arises from a question that  Senator Walters  asked him yesterday. The Minister stated in reply that he would obtain the details of the application of the Government's new proposals- that is the proposals to subsidise fuel freights under certain circumstancesto Tasmania and specific areas of Tasmania. Has he yet obtained those details? Does the document which the Minister made available to the Opposition last Friday show that of the 438 pricing localities in Tasmania, no subsidy will be paid in Devonport, Hobart, Launceston or 237 of the other pricing localities in the State; that a subsidy of 0.1c a litre will be paid to another 130 pricing localities and that the subsidy will exceed lc a litre in only 15 of the 438 pricing localities in Tasmania? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
Did the Australian Ambassador to France ask at any time to be relieved of his onerous additional duties as Ambassador to UNESCO. 
As was stated in the House of Representatives by my colleague,  Mr Hurford,  the Opposition is not opposing the Bounty (Drilling Machines) Bill 1978. The Bill provides for the payment of a bounty on defined types of drilling machines under certain conditions. If those conditions are complied with, one-third of the factory cost of the machine will be paid by the Government. The conditions are, chiefly, that 85 per cent of the component materials used in the production of the machine must be of local origin, otherwise the bounty is progressively reduced, and that materials of Australian origin must also comprise 55 per cent of the factory cost of the machine. A bounty of one-third of the factory cost is, of course, equivalent to tariff protection of 50 per cent. The effective rate of protection in this instance has not, so far as I am aware, been calculated, but on 1966-67 production figures some $150,000 would be paid out under the provisions of this bounty. That represents a subsidy of approximately $3,000 per employee if it is expressed in terms of that common denominator. By the standards of many sections of Australian manufacturing industry, that is a relatively low rate of public assistance. 
The only reservation that I express in passing is concerned with the administrative costs. I wonder what it costs to administer a piece of legislation which will expend probably in the region of $150,000 a year, which requires a ninepage or 10-page Bill to be presented, to be distributed and to be printed in all of the government documents, which occupies the time of this Parliament and its staff. Added to that, of course, is the cost of the administration and ultimately the policing of the payment of the bounty by, I presume, the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. One wonders whether we are drifting into a Parkinsonian situation in which the administrative costs of a piece of legislation such as this might be approaching the amount of money which is paid out under it. But I make that observation only in passing. 
On grounds of both equity and efficiency, it is preferable, in principle, that bounties be paid rather than tariffs or tariff quotas being imposed. That is so, firstly, because there is less distortion in the efficiency of resource allocation and, secondly, because the burden of bounties is distributed through the taxation system on the whole community in a more equitable way than is likely to be the case via the high cost method of imposing tariffs. I think it is especially importantI welcome this move in one small waythat the present Government has decided to provide protection for this industry by way of bounty rather than subsidy. I think it is a significant concession, even though it is concerned with a small issue, because the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in spite of the fact that he does not believe there is any such thing as a free lunch, seems to believe that there is such a thing as free protection, as long as the cost of protection does not show up in the Government's accounts. He seems to believe that unlimited protection by way of tariffs or import restrictions does not cost anything. So at least in this instance, because the protection is not being provided by way of tariffs or import restrictions, the cost will be visible even to the Prime Minister.  His  blind spot on this issue of the cost of protection is about to be manifested again in the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Amendment Bill which the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  has just introduced and which will be the subject of debate later this day. 
I will not speak at great length but I endorse the observation made by the Liberal Party member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in the House of Representatives. He made the point that legislation of this nature, while in this case it protects a very small Australian industry and probably ensures the maintenance of something like the existing level of employment, is a very poor substitute- in fact, it is no substitute at allfor a general economic recovery. It is a band-aid measure. The honourable member for Lilley also made the very important point that a prerequisite to the restructuring of Australian industry is the end of the recession which has plagued the Australian economy for about the last three years and which is unquestionably deepening. Measures of this type are a very poor substitute for wider-ranging government policies which will lift the economy out of the recession. The policies we have had over the last two years have now, on the absolutely decisive evidence of the latest quarterly national accounts, driven the economy deeper into recession. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
What was Australia's total financial contribution to UNESCO in 1976-77. 
What is the estimated annual cost, including salary, pension, allowances, supporting staff, office requisites, accommodation and transport, of maintaining  Sir John  Kerr as Ambassador to UNESCO. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) Do Ambassadors-designate normally receive a comprehensive briefing of several weeks' duration at the Department of Foreign Affairs prior to taking up their posts. 
Will, or did  Sir John  Kerr receive such a briefing. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
What financial gain is expected ultimately to accrue to the Government, pursuant to the 1977 Budget decision to sell land for Defence Service Homes at market value instead of at capital cost, as before. 
-The Bill before the Senate, officially called the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Amendment Bill is, of course, what has been rather misleadingly described as the Government's petrol price equalisation scheme. At the outset I want to make two facts perfectly clear. This scheme will not equalise petrol prices, and it does not honour the election promises of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  given in November last. In his policy speech on 21 November the Prime Minister said: 
Immediately after the election the Government will take action to equalise the price of petroleum products between city and country, without adding to city prices. 
Later in the same speech he added: 
The scheme will bring country prices down initially to less than lc per litre (4c per gallon) above city prices. 
What this Bill actually does is stated fairly succinctly in the second reading speech of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator 
Withers), in which he said that the proposed Australia-wide scheme is directed solely to subsidising freight costs in excess of 4c a gallon, adding: 'It will therefore have no effect on the prices of petroleum products in metropolitan and other areas where freight differentials do not exceed the 4c subsidy margin '. 
The Minister could have, and should have, added that it will not equalise the discrepancy between city and country prices at present caused by non-freight factors. Because this Bill, which has been misleadingly called the Petrol Price Equalisation Bill, does not equalise prices and does not honour the Prime Minister's election promises, I move that at the end of the motion these words be added:  but the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill: 
fails to- 
1 ) implement the election promise of the Government to equalise the price of petroleum products between city and country', and 
improve the adequacy of the existing petroleum marketing and distribution system in country areas, and 
is silent on the defects in the system outlined in the 4th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. 
The facts concerning the estimated amount of subsidy payable have been collated by the Government and put into a document which the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  was kind enough to supply to the Opposition several weeks ago. I want to dwell at some length on the facts which that document reveals. There are some 10,000 pricing localities, as the petroleum industry calls them, outside the Australian capital cities. These pricing localities vary from a single pastoral property where there would be only six or eight people, and perhaps only one actual buyer of petroleum products, to quite large country towns which may have 20,000 or 30,000 people. So a simplistic assessment of the impact of this scheme, based on just the number of centres to which a subsidy will be payable, or to which it will not be payable, can to that extent be misleading. In the Statistician's jargon, the totals for these pricing localities are unweighted and, in general, the larger towns where there are vast numbers of consumers will receive lower levels of subsidy than will the isolated pastoral properties where there may in fact be only one buyer. 
Generalising, those country towns of provincial cities which are close to the ocean, which are ports, which are reasonably close to ports, or which have a rail service and are within reasonable distance of a port, will receive little or no subsidy. No ports will receive a subsidy, so the coastal cities in Queensland such as Rockhampton, Mackay and Cairns will receive no subsidy. To about 2,000 of the 10,000 pricing zones no subsidy will be paid on any petroleum product. In the other approximately 8,000 zones some subsidy will be paid on some petroleum products. 
The major petroleum products are, of course, petrol and distillate and because these are bulk commodities transported in bulk containers, their freight costs are lower. The picture which emerges when we examine the exhaustive list of these pricing localities is that in many instances subsidies may be payable on a minor petroleum product such as power kerosene, aviation fuel or aviation turbine fuel, but none is payable on the major petroleum products such as distillate and petrol. Therefore, from a review of the 10,000 pricing localities it emerges that in 42 per cent of them, bearing in mind that this includes the overwhelming majority of the large country towns, coastal and provincial cities, no subsidy will be paid on motor spirit. In 25 per cent of the localities a subsidy varying between 0. 1 and 0.9 cents a litre will be paid. A subsidy of lc a litre or more will be payable at 33 per cent of those localities. Far more than proportionally the localities in which a subsidy of above lc a litre will be payable are either single pastoral properties or very very small outback towns. 
On a State basis we find that in particular the States of Victoria and Tasmania will receive negligible benefits from this scheme. I hope that  Senator Walters,  who is not in the chamber, is listening to what I have to say about Tasmania for her further edification because judging by the question she asked a few weeks ago she certainly needs some edification and enlightenment on this subject. Of the approximately 600 pricing zones in Tasmania no subsidy will be paid at about 400 and a token subsidy of 0.1c per litre will be paid at a further 137 pricing zones. A subsidy of lc a litre or more will be payable at only 1 5 of the 600 pricing localities in the entire State. 
There are about 1,100 pricing localities in Victoria. I cannot be precise about that figure because the Government document does not list all the pricing localities. However, no subsidy will be paid at about 550 of those 1,100 pricing localities. A token subsidy of only 0. lc a litre will be paid at 308 pricing localities, either a subsidy of 0.1c a litre or nothing will be paid at 850 or thereabouts of the 1 , 100 pricing localities. A subsidy of lc a litre or more is payable at only 42 of the 1 , 1 00 pricing localities in the State. 
I will not go through the statistics for the other States. However, I briefly want to mention the situation in South Australia because I understand that there is some confusion there about this matter. There are about 900 pricing localities in South Australia and no subsidy will be paid at about 450 of those pricing localities. A subsidy of between 0. lc and 0.9c a litre will be paid at 320 pricing localities. The subsidy will be lc a litre or more at 163 pricing localities. 
To give some more obvious relevance to the rather dry or perhaps abstract statistics which I have been quoting I would like to refer to the subsidy paid at some specific towns. In Victoria, for example, no subsidy will be paid at the following significant centres or provincial cities: Ballarat, Bendigo, Colac, Horsham, Tallarook, Terang, Warrnambool and Yarra. That is by no means an exhaustive list; it is just a sample of towns in Victoria to which no subsidy will be applicable. A token subsidy of 0.1c a litre will be paid at Ardmona, Cobram, Dimboola, Echuca, Jeparit, Kyabram, Nhill, Shepparton and Wodonga. That is not an exhaustive list either; it is just a sample. The subsidy at Matlock, which is a great distance from Melbourne, will be lc a litre and at Omeo it will be 1 .3c a litre. 
In New South Wales no subsidy will be paid at the following large provincial cities or otherwise significant centres: Bathurst, Bowral, Cessnock, Eden, Goulburn, Lismore, Lithgow, Singleton, Taree and Tharwa. A very low level of subsidy will be paid at the following towns: Adaminaby will receive 0.3c a litre; Albury 0. lc; Bredbo 0.2c; Broken Hill 0.4c; Gunnedah 0.1c; Hay, in the far south west, 0.4c; Cootamundra 0.5c; Moruya 0.3c; Orange 0.1c; Tamworth 0.2c and Yass 0.2c. Again that is not an exhaustive list; it is just a sample of some of the more significant country towns in New South Wales at which a very low level of subsidy will be paid. 
-I thought I mentioned Broken Hill. Broken Hill, which is generally regarded as being one of the more remote towns in New South Wales, will receive a subsidy of 0.4c a litre. The subsidy will be higher in some areas. It will be 1.3c a litre in Bourke, 1.2c in Cobar, 1 .5c in Menindee and so on. 
In Queensland- and  Senator Maunsell  should be particularly interested in this- no subsidy will be payable at Ambrose, Ayr, Bundaberg, Cairns, Childers, Eton, Gatton, Halifax, Ingham, Innisfail, Mackay, Maryborough, Nambour, Rockhampton, Sarina, Townsville, Weipa and 
Yeppoon. Again that is not an exhaustive list; it is just a sample of some of the towns in Queensland that do not receive a subsidy but honourable senators will notice that the list includes nearly all the provincial towns of Queensland with the exception perhaps of Mt Isa. A token subsidy will be paid at other places, Goondiwindi will receive a subsidy of 0.5c a litre; Herberton 0.1c; Toowoomba 0.3c; Tully 0.2c and so on. Certainly the subsidy will be somewhat higher in some parts of Queensland, particularly the west of the State. I understand that  Senator Maunsell  is particularly interested in Longreach so I will not disappoint him. The subsidy at Longreach is 2.7c a litre. I acknowledge that that is a fairly significant adjustment to the price of petrol. In fact, it equals the price hike caused by the Government's crude oil policy in the last Budget. Therefore, all that the subsidy will do for the petrol consumers of Longreach, who will be among the major beneficiaries of this legislation in Australia, is cancel the petrol price hike caused last year by the Government's crude oil pricing policy. The subsidy will not, of course, offset the future price hikes forecast by the Government. 
The Government's crude oil pricing policy increased the price of petrol last year by 1 lc a gallon. The Government's announced policy will increase the price of petrol by about 10c a gallon in each of the next four years. Therefore, people in places which receive the insignificant price reductions, and even people in places like Longreach, which will receive a fairly significant reduction in the price of petrol, should view this legislation against the perspective of the proposed price increases. The price reduction for a few fairly remote country towns like Longreach of 2.7c a litre should be seen against a price hike in last year's Budget of 1 lc a gallon and further price hikes of 10c a gallon in each of the next four years as a result of this Government's crude oil pricing policy. 
I note that the document states that a subsidy of 11.5c a litre will be paid at Gove in the Northern Territory. Although this is not the highest subsidy it is very close to the highest. I assume- and there is certainly no statement to the contrary- that the major beneficiary of that very high level of subsidy, which is in excess of 50c a gallon, will be the Nabalco mining consortium which mines bauxite in that area. In South Australia no subsidy will be paid at, among other places, Ardrossan, Cleve, Chowilla, Cummins, Gluyas, Kapunda, Murray Bridge, Loxton, Port Lincoln, Port Augusta, Port Pirie, Penola, Naracoorte, Mount Gambier and Whyalla. In virtually all the significant and large country towns in South Australia no subsidy will be payable. A token subsidy of 0. 1 c per litre will be paid at Cradock, while the subsidy will be 0.3c at Iron Knob, 0.4c at Streaky Bay, 0.8c at Ceduna, 0.8c at Leigh Creek and lc at Tarcoola. At a few places the subsidy will be in excess of lc per litre. South Australia is one of the States which is more significantly affected because 163 pricing localities within the State will receive a subsidy of lc per litre or more. Most of those localities are either single pastoral properties or very small towns where there are hardly any consumers. 
In my State of Western Australia, no subsidy is payable at any of these significant towns: Esperance, Albany, Busselton, Bunbury, Mount Barker, Harvey, Mandurah-Pinjarra- no subsidy will be payable on any product there- Geraldton, Carnarvon, Port Hedland, Derby, Broome and even at Wyndham in the far north. A subsidy of 1 . 1 c per litre will be paid in the inland city of Kalgoorlie. This is significant in the context of this Bill but it goes only about 20 per cent of the way towards equalising prices which are normal in the capital cities and prices which are normal in the inland city of Kalgoorlie. In Tasmania, where I mentioned earlier the scheme is virtually irrelevant no subsidy will be payable at, among other places, Burnie, Launceston, Brighton, Smithton way out in the north-west, Glenorchy, Ross which is close to the centre, and Richmond. Even in the eastern coastal town of St Helens the subsidy will be only 0.3c per litre. At Zeehan in the western coastal area it will be only 0.5c per litre, and at Queenstown also it will be only 0.5c per litre. So nothing could be clearer than that this scheme barely scratches the surface in the implementation of the Prime Minister's election promise to equalise petrol prices between city and country. 
For more than two years various members of the Government have been talking about this issue. They have been under pressure from some people in country areas who thought naively that they would secure something quite significant from the scheme in the end. In the  National Farmer  of September 1977, the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  in reply to a question was reported to have said: 
We are very keen to try and get some equity. We are concerned about discounts in the cities while in the outback it can be five or six times the price. 
Then he said: 
. but to reintroduce the old scheme would cost a great deal of money. In the present budget climate I don't believe that would be practical or possible. 
Those were the words of the Minister for Primary Industry in September last year. Within two months a scheme which the Minister for Primary Industry had said would not be practical or possible was promised by the Prime Minister. What had changed within the two months' period to suddenly cause the Government to have such a drastic change of view? 
Somebody said there was an election and that is precisely what happened. In that two months' period an election was announced, and on 19 November the then Treasurer and  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party was forced to resign in disgrace. In the weekend of panic that followed his enforced resignation the Prime Minister and some of his closest associates concocted a wild grab-bag of ill-costed promises, and this was one component of it. The Prime Minister said at that time that the scheme would cost $3 1 m in a full year. The Government now admits that it will cost $36m, nearly 20 per cent inflation in about three months. I personally do not believe that this scheme can be funded for $36m, and I invite the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  when he replies to state the assumptions which underpinned the Prime Minister's cost estimate of $3 1 m which, I guess, nobody else takes seriously or believes, and the assumptions which underpin the current, somewhat more honest estimate of $36m. In 1972-73 a very similar scheme cost almost $26m. If consumption has been increasing at about 6 per cent to 7 per cent a year since then, and I understand it has, for this scheme to have been funded by $36m transport costs would have had to remain almost static in the six-year period from 1972-73 to 1978-79. That may have happened and if it has it leads to some interesting possibilities and speculation. If transport costs have remained constant during the whole period one might question whether the discipline of the market was then relevant to transport costs. Once a scheme like this or the scheme which predated it is introduced and transport costs pass the threshold, it is a matter of complete irrelevance to the fuel companies what the final fuel cost is because the Government will pick up the entire Bill. So if transport costs have been held virtually static during the entire six year period it suggests that the discipline of the market was something which is worth retaining. I will be interested to hear the Minister's comments on that. 
I observe in passing that there is nothing to stop, say, the Premier of Queensland- I understand he would not be exactly adulatory towards the Prime Minister or the Federal Government this week; in fact he rarely is- imposing quite ludicrous freight charges on the transport of petroleum products to Mount Isa or other areas in western Queensland in the knowledge that the Federal Government will pick up the entire bill. If  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  cannot work that out for himself I dare say that some of his advisers will soon appraise him of the possibilities. The other point I wish to make in the little time which remains is that the petroleum pricing policy of this Government, or at least of its two senior members, has not yet become fully apparent. 
For many months both the Prime Minister and his Deputy have been attempting to coerce the oil companies into what they call equalising petrol prices and entering into what in the current new speak of this Government is called a voluntary agreement to stop discounting in the cities. I want to make it clear that any such attempt absolutely repudiates the second point in the Prime Minister's election promise that the Government would equalise prices without adding to city prices. If this campaign of coercion being mounted by the Prime Minister and his Deputy, aimed at forcing oil companies to stop discounting and to charge the same price at every pricing outlet, is successful, it will inevitably mean a substantial increase in city prices. So what the Prime Minister and his Deputy are covertly trying to force the oil companies to do absolutely repudiates the second leg of the undertaking the Prime Minister gave in his election policy speech. 
It does have some other implications which ought to be interesting to those people who profess to have some philosophical commitment to what is called 'free enterprise', or the 'market economy', or 'capitalism' or whatever. As the  Australian Financial Review  observed on 10 March, the attempt by Messrs Fraser and Anthony to coerce, to covertly force the oil companies into doing this, is the absolute antithesis of what the Government is supposed to stand for. The article goes on: 
Suppose for a moment, that the oil companies acceded to this pressure and got together and set a uniform price throughout Australia. Such an arrangement would require the suspension of the Trade Practices Act for one industry. 
It would create a system of obligations between the industry and the Government which could never be untangled. It would make the motor industry plans look like kindergarten stuff. 
Entry into the industry would be virtually barred because the Government would be obliged to protect the investment of those companies which had accommodated it in coming up with a price fixing system. 
So the article goes on. If the Government is really committed to the equalisation of fuel prices through Australia the best way and the only honest way to achieve this, in terms of resource allocation and administrative efficiency, is to pick up the entire freight bill. This covert attempt to force the oil companies into secretly, furtively equalising prices at the expense of city consumers so that the cost remains hidden is totally compatible with the Prime Minister's general belief that if it does not go through the Government accounts it does not cost anything. The Prime Minister, even if he does not believe that there is such a thing as a free lunch, obviously believes everything else is free, as long as it does not go through the government accounts. 
The only honest way in which to do what the Government says it intends to do is to fund the whole cost of the freight charges by subsidy from the revenue. For that reason we have moved this amendment to this Bill. We also moved it because the legislation is insignificant in two States and almost totally irrelevant in the State of Tasmania. I would be more than interested to hear the six Tasmanian senators who sit opposite in this chamber and to see what action they take on this Bill. It will be interesting to see whether they, like most of their colleagues in the House of Representatives, will be content with windy rhetoric on the subject or whether they will do something a little bit courageous and actually cross the floor and vote for this amendment. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and is prompted by  Mr Sinclair's  speech to the Agricultural Society Council of New South Wales a couple of weeks ago in which he criticised the export diversification scheme of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation and alleged that farmers were not receiving the benefit of higher export prices. In order to overcome the defects to which the Minister has drawn attention, is the Government considering, or will it consider, amending the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation Act along the lines proposed by my colleague  Mr Keating  in the House of Representatives on 3 1 May last year. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the report that the Australian Wool Corporation, as a result of prior agreement with the Government, has borrowed $100m overseas to finance its stockpile. I ask whether the $ 100m overseas borrowing by the Corporation will have exactly the same effect on the balance of payments, the money supply and every other significant economic indicator as would $100m borrowed overseas by the Government. Will the Corporation repay to the Government as a result of this loan $100m from previous borrowings from the 
Government, thereby cosmetically reducing the ballooning 1977-78 deficit by $100m? If so, is that the reason why the Government reversed its previous policy of disallowing overseas borrowings by the Wool Corporation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I note that earlier today the Minister was unable to give to  Senator Wriedt  an estimate of the end of year fiscal deficit after nine months of the fiscal year have elapsed. In view of that fact, can he explain to the Senate how  Mr Fraser, Mr Lynch  and some other members of the present Government were able to assert in December 1975- after 5 months of the fiscal year had elapsed- that the 1975-76 deficit would be between $4.5 billion and $5 billion? Why can the Government not apply the same formula as  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Lynch  used at that time for estimating this year's deficit, presumably with much more precision, since nine months have elapsed instead of five months? 
I have a couple of queries which are partially general but which refer in particular to proposed new section 4 (1) (a) relating to the scheme itself and to its costing and to proposed new section 5 (3) (b) which deals with the power given to the Minister to determine to whom payments may be made and, by implication, to whom payment may not be made. I thank the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  for the partial reply in his closing remarks to the question I raised about the subsidy payable at Gove, but I want to clarify it. The document supplied by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  stated that a subsidy of 1 1.5c per litre was payable at Gove on motor spirit and, I think, distillate but in his remarks the Minister states that the subsidy is 1 1.5c per gallon. I want to clarify whether it is 1 1.5c per gallon or litre and further whether the Minister can make a statement at this time whether a subsidy of either 1 1.5c per gallon or litre, whichever it is, will in fact be paid on the fuel used by Nabalco Pty Ltd. 
In my speech on the second reading debate I requested details of the costing estimates of the proposal. I referred to the sum of $3 6m mentioned in the Minister's second reading speech and, specifically, to the assumed increases in transport costs for fuel generally since 1972-73. My calculations suggested that there was little allowance in an overall cost estimate of $36m for increases in transport costs in the six years from 1972-73 to 1978-79. As I understand it, the amount of $36m applies to next financial year and not to this financial year. If the information is available, I should like to know what percentage increase in transport costs has been assumed in that six-year period from 1972-73 to 1978-79. 
The final point I raise is whether the Minister for Science can give an undertaking that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  will desist from their campaign to coerce or to force oil companies into cross- subsidising fuel costs. I refer to the continual campaign which has been waged for the past six months by both the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister to coerce oil companies into selling at uniform prices throughout Australia. There is only one way that that can be done, that is, if the oil companies increase prices in the capital cities and some of the other major outlets in Australia where discounting is fairly common in order to reduce prices in the country. 
I did mention this in my remarks during the second reading debate. I requested some comment on it, but no comment was forthcoming. I think this aspect is very important and is very relevant to the electoral undertaking of the Prime Minister in which he unequivocally stated that country prices would be brought down to this level without increasing city prices. It is quite obvious from the present and past attempts of the Prime Minister and his  Deputy  to force oil companies to sell at discount prices in the country, or at the same prices in the country as in the major outlets, that unless the Government plugs that revenue loss to the oil companies or compensates from Government funds those companies for that revenue loss the oil companies must increase prices in the city. There is no logical way of escaping that conclusion, which is very important, given the Prime Minister's assurance that prices would be equalisedmisleading though that term is- or the differential will be reduced to less than lc a litre without increasing city prices. I ask the Minister whether the Prime Minister and his  Deputy  will desist from their attempts to make the oil companies pay that cross-subsidy from city purchasers and other high volume outlets which operate in the capital cities to the more remote outlets. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 2 March 1 978: 
1 ) Did the now-defunct Australian Meat Board allocate a special United States export quota in 1 977, for shipment in late 1977 and early 1978, to Norwest Ltd, a company jointly owned by the Hooker and Project Development Corporations. 
Was the quota worth approximately $1.5 million, as reported in the Australian Financial Review, 20 February 1978. 
What criterion or criteria was/were used in the decision to grant the quota. 
I apologise to  Senator Wriedt  and to anyone else who was inconvenienced by my absence from the Senate when the debate on this Bill was resumed. I had expected that the previous matter would take up more time than it did. I do not think there is very much left to say on the Bill.  Senator Wriedt  has covered the issue very comprehensively, explaining that, since the Bill is only a bridging finance measure to enable the Apple and Pear Corporation to fund a promotion program for apples and pears prior to its revenue being made available, it cannot be seen in the overall perspective of government as being a crucially important piece of legislation, although of course it is important to the Apple and Pear Corporation and to the apple and pear producers. As I understand it, the Corporation does not have sufficient reserves to finance the promotion program it envisages and therefore the Government has moved in, quite properly, to guarantee borrowings by the Corporation for that program, borrowings that ultimately will be repaid from the levy paid by producers on apples and pears when the crop is marketed. 
One must agree with a good deal of  Senator Tehan  's comments. In the last 12 months the price situation for apple and pear producers has been somewhat more favourable than in recent years. Nevertheless, I think it would be unwise to believe that all the problems of this industry are over because it has been able to secure higher prices on overseas markets in the last year. One would be very optimistic if one were to expect that higher prices, at least in real terms, will prevail in the long term. However, that particular problem of the industry is not really the subject matter of this legislation. 
The only other comment I want to make is in relation to the apple crop in Western Australia. Although not as large a producing or exporting State as Tasmania, Western Australia is a quite significant producer and exporter. As I understand it, the apple crop in Western Australia has been destroyed substantially by last week 's violent storms and in the Donnybrook area, where production is most heavily concentrated, the crop was virtually ruined. Of course, that is tragic for the producers in the Donnybrook area who are directly affected by it, but I guess that for the Corporation and for producers elsewhere it means that, at the expense of the Donnybrook producers, their marketing problems will be somewhat easier than they otherwise would have been. 
I have nothing more to say on the Bill. The Opposition supports the Government 's action. It is not an issue of crucial importance for the apple and pear industry. Long term levels of production and markets are covered by other legislation and other factors, but we approve of the Government's action  in  making it possible for the Corporation to fund its promotion program. 
I am more confused. If I understood both  Senator Tehan  and the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  correctly, the Minister has stated that the cash of the company, or the cash in hand as he put it, is sufficient to discharge the $ 14m total outstanding debt. I heard  Senator Tehan  say that the company had only $5m in cash. Could that be clarified? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether it is correct that only 6,000 tonnes of beef has been sold to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Eastern Europe from an expected 1 10,000 tonnes for the year. Have sales to the United States of America for the five months, November to March, averaged 32,000 tonnes a month? To keep within the quota limits applying to the United States market, will monthly sales for the rest of the year have to be restricted to 20,000 tonnes? What action, if any, has the Government taken to secure a sale to the USSR or some other market to avoid the severe beef price reduction which would follow the diversion of 12,000 tonnes a month from the United States market? 
The impassioned defence of new federalism we have just heard came from  Senator Carrick,  who is the architect of that policy. He sold it to his Liberal Party Leader,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, back in 1975 because some features of it appealed to  Mr Fraser  's particular ideological prejudices.  Senator Carrick  then, by the very narrowest of margins- I understand by even a tied vote- managed to sell it to his Liberal Party front bench colleagues of the day. It was ultimately incorporated and was a major feature in the Liberal Party's 1975 election rhetoric and policy documents. In 1977 there was not one line or one word about new federalism in the Liberal Party 's election rhetoric or policy documents. If the Liberal Party is as convinced of the wisdom and popularity of this policy as  Senator Carrick  's remarks would have us believe, is it not strange that there was not a word about it in the 1977 election campaign? 

 Senator Carrick, in the web of fantasy which he has spun around himself on this issue, would have us believe that the State governments entered, in the financial sense, a golden age when the Fraser Government was elected and when the fiscal policies of new federalism became partially operative. He contrasted this to what he considered to the dark and bankrupt years of the Whitlam Government, when the State governments were inadequately funded. Unfortunately, the one-time Treasurer in the Fraser Government,  Mr Lynch,  within eight months of that Government taking office, on 1 8 July 1976 issued a statement in which he said: 
Over the five years to 1 975-76, the annual growth in State budget expenditures had averaged over 20 per cent; it had exceeded the growth in Commonwealth budget expenditures (excluding payments to the States) over the same period. 
At the same time, payments by the Commonwealth to the States had grown much faster than other Commonwealth outlays. 
In 1975-76-- 
The last Budget of the dreaded Labor Government, according to  Senator Carrick- 
. payments to the States increased by over 30 per cent, compared with an increase of about 17 per cent in other Commonwealth Budget outlays. 
I remind  Senator Carrick  that the author of those words was the man who served as Treasurer in the Government for two years. Then the real killer came when  Mr Lynch  said in the same Press statement: 
There had to be a slowing down in the rate of growth of Commonwealth payments to the States. 
That is worth repeating. The words of the Treasurer in the Fraser Government were: 
There had to be a slowing down in the rate of growth of Commonwealth payments to the States. 
There the truth emerged. The Treasurer said that there had to be a slowing down in the rate of growth and there has been. 

 Senator Carrick would also have us believe that because of the fiscal generosity of the Fraser Government, State governments have been able to reduce taxes. He can, if he wants, cite one or two examples in which State governments have reduced specific taxes, but it is the aggregate level of taxation that is relevant. Unfortunately for  Senator Carrick  the facts, again, contradict him. I have an extract of an Australian Bureau of Statistics document entitled  Public Authority Finance; Public Authority Estimates for 1977-78  which details the growth in total State government taxation over a period of years. In the 1975-76 financial year total State government taxation revenue was $3.37 billion. In 1977-78 the estimate is $4,179 billion. That is an increase of 24 per cent in two years. In the same period, if  Senator Carrick  's estimates of consumer price index increases are to be believed, the CPI has increased by just over 22 per cent. The fact is that, since the Fraser Government's new federalism became operative, State government aggregate taxation has increased at a faster rate than the consumer price index.  Senator Carrick  would have us believe, if we were sufficiently naive, that the financial provisions of the new federalism have been so generous that the States have been able to reduce taxation. In what I presume was a hasty, off the top of the head statement,  Senator Carrick  also claimed that local government rates were coming down. I am not aware of any local government authorities in Australia in which rates are coming down. If  Senator Carrick  could table a list of those authorities in which rates are coming down I am sure the Senate would be very interested to examine it. I am also sure it would not take very long to do so. It would be a document comparable to that small booklet published last year entitled  The wit of Malcolm Fraser,  which contained 45 blank pages. 
Despite all of  Senator Carrick  's bombast and belligerence the plain truth is that the Fraser Government's federalism policy is in tatters, if not in ruins. The Government itself has tacitly acknowledged that fact. This issue which featured so prominently in the 1 975 Liberal Party election campaign got no mention in 1977. The failure or demise of new federalism had a certain inevitability about it. From the outset the policy was largely fatuous and nebulous. From the outset it contained elements of self-contradiction which became more damaging and, of course, ultimately fatal when its sometimes laudable objectives were tested by exposure to reality. 
The central feature of federalism was supposed to be the devolution or decentralisation of power. In particular, the Federal Government was supposed to withdraw substantially from funding the public sector. It was that element of new federalism that appealed to the particular, or peculiar, ideology of the present Prime Minister. The consequential shortfall in State government revenue would be met either by reducing total public sector size, or the State component of the public sector, or by State funds raised by State income taxes. The discretion as to whether the shortfall was to be met by reducing expenditure or by levying a State income tax was supposed to be left to the States. 
The major financial mechanism embodied in the new federalism was that, by a percentage share of personal income tax, the Commonwealth would continue to fund those areas of expenditure designated as general purpose payments but that the States would gradually take over what has previously been called specific purpose payments by the Commonwealth and would fund them through State income taxes. The State income taxes were supposed to operate from July 1977. They were not introduced by any of the States. Few people seriously consider that they ever will be introduced. In response to some of the noisy interjections which were coming from my left a minute ago, I cite the Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court, who in his public posturings has been one of the major supporters of this federalism policy because he saw it as a way of increasing his power and his prestige. But when it actually came to picking up the financial responsibilities that went with it,  Sir Charles,  as State politicians and State Premiers are wont to do, backed down. 
I have in front of me an article from the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 8 April 1977 headed Western Australia supports Fraser's tax planbut not now '. It states: 
The West Austraiian Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, is opposed to the States levying income tax surcharges in present economic circumstancesHe revealed his attitude in a confidential Telex message he sent on Wednesday to the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser. 
So whatever  Sir Charles  CoUrt by his public posturing, would have us believe that he believes, when he sends secret telexes to the Prime Minister the truth comes out. The truth is that even  Sir Charles  Court is opposed to the State income tax. In the telex he said: 
However, I must add that I do not think it would be proper for a State to impose its own income tax at present in view of the economic situation. 
I suggest that, in the judgment of  Sir Charles  Court, the economic situation will never justify the imposition of a State income tax. The question must arise as to whether new federalism and State income taxes- like honour and integrity in government, jobs for all, the investment led recovery, the export led recovery and the consumer led recovery- should now be seen as Fraserian illusions or fabrications. Is the Fraser Government about to surreptitiously drop its new federalism into the political dustbin? There was nothing in  Senator Carrick  's statement to clear up that question one way or the other. He gave us an impassioned, bombastic and highly innaccurate defence of past actions by the Liberal Party but it did not clear up that question. When will the national Government withdraw from the area of specific purpose payments and allow, or force, the States to fund them through State income taxes? There has been no answer to that question. I believe that there will not be an answer. One apparent objective of new federalism- freezing the growth of Federal Government employment- has been met. The Federal Government has reduced slightly the number of Federal Government employees since it has been in office but there has been a more than offsetting growth in State government employees. From the Australian Bureau of Statistics Bulletin 6212 issued on 3 April last we find that State and local government - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)- Senator Walsh,  I think that you are reading your speech, and that is contrary to the Standing Orders of the Senate. 
In any event,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I have a total of three pages of notes. If anyone thinks that I can speak for 15 minutes on three pages of notes he must think that I have microscopic writing and particularly keen eyesight. I am quite willing to table my notes if anyone wants me to do so. Let me continue. The ABS document shows that for two years, January 1976 to January 1978, State and local government employment has grown by 65,000. Federal Government employment has declined slightly. These figures do not exactly correlate with the figures presented by  Senator Wriedt.  The definitions and the time periods are slightly different. The document also shows that total private employment in that same two-year period has fallen by 62,000. Honourable Senators should remember that the private sector was supposed to be the engine for economic growth which would lead us to recovery once a Liberal government was elected. In fact in the two years the private sector not only failed to be an engine for growth under the policies of this Government, but also stalled and started running downhill. It is still going downhill and it will continue to go downhill as long as the thrust- to use the word used so often by the previous Treasurer- of the Government's economic policy remains where it is. So Federal Government employment has been restricted and State government employment has continued to grow. It is just as well that it has, because it has managed to take up the slack caused by the continuing decline of the private sector. 
I see that my time has almost expired. I must mention one thing.  Senator Carrick  was the most reckless and extravagant of all the prophets of the benefits of new federalism. On 27 April 1976, in answer to a question in the Senate, he asserted that total payments to the States- that is, total payments and not just the general purpose payments- would increase in real terms by something more than 58 per cent in the first three years of the Fraser Government. As  Senator Wriedt  has already shown, total payments to the States in real terms in the first two years- far from increasing- have fallen by 78 per cent. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. Before I call on the next honourable senator I would like to say that there is no basis in the point of order raised by  Senator Gietzelt.  There is no difference between a senator and a Minister speaking in a general debate in this chamber. 
I shall not speak for very long, but the history behind this Co-operative and the Government's involvement, directly and indirectly, with it were very lucidly and comprehensively outlined in the House of Representatives yesterday, by my colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  I suggest that if anyone wants to get a very good background brief on this matter he should read  Mr Willis'  speech. I observe in passing that  Mr Willis'  excellent and lucid background notes stand in stark contrast to the very brief and incomplete second reading speech given by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in which we were told virtually nothing about this Co-operative or its past history. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  has repeated some of the major points concerning this Co-operative, but I have been informed- I cannot vouch for or verify this statement- that no recent balance sheets or perhaps no balance sheets at all are available from this Co-operative. I request the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  as  Senator Wriedt  has already done, to endeavour to obtain for our information an accurate, up to date and preferably audited balance sheet showing just what the trading operations of the Cooperative have been recently and an outline of its other debt commitments. As  Mr Willis  pointed out in the House of Representatives, it seems somewhat unrealistic to expect that a company which is virtually insolvent or at least in a highly illiquid position in which this one is can negotiate a loan of this magnitude and pay it back within three years as the Bill requires it to do. It is highly likely, I think, that some re-financing will have to be obtained from some source or other if the cooperative is to continue operating. 
I make just two other points. It is not very satisfactory- and I do not just direct these remarks at the present Government because I think past governments, including the one I supported as a back bencher, have done similar things- to provide special government assistance on the ad hoc basis that this Bill seeks to do in this instance and as we have done in the past. At the very least I believe the Government ought to produce a set of guidelines laying down in broad terms the conditions under which governments will either make funds directly available to rescue failing businesses or, as it is doing in this instance, to guarantee loans raised from other sources. 
I would be interested to know also what is the philosophical position of the Liberal Party on this issue of financial public assistance to private business. Apart from certain inconsistencies in past behaviour of this Government- and I mention in passing that two Government back benchers in the House of Representatives who have a vested interest in this co-operative were good enough to declare their vested interest in the second reading debate; and that is something on which there should be clarification- the lack of clear guidelines and the fact that some companies have sought assistance and been rejected and other companies or co-operatives like this one have sought and been granted Government assistance, if one takes a broader look at the Liberal Party one sees that the action of this Government is particularly hard to reconcile with the attitude of the Premier of Western Australia back in 1974. 1 have in front of me an extract from the  Australian Financial Review  of 18 November 1974 headed 'WA mining ultimatum'. The report states: 
Mining companies hoping to launch big ventures in Western Australia have been told that the State Government will refuse access to mining tenements or off-shore leases if they accept financial help from Australian Government bodies. 
The report went on to say: 
Mining Executives say that they have been written to, telephoned or, in some cases, summonsed to government offices to be given the warning. 
In effect if they accept help from such semi-independent bodies as the Reserve Bank or the AIDC they will be persona non grata with the State Government. 
One executive was told: 'We 're sick of learning for the first time in the  Australian Financial Review  about the latest mineral venture to be launched in this State'. 
I think that last part of the article gives us a clue to the real reason behind the attitude of  Sir Charles  Court at the time. It may not have been an objection to public funds being involved in private business per se but that  Sir Charles  Court was sulking because he was deprived of the opportunity to obtain the fixes he seems to require periodically and very frequently to feed his egomania. If the announcements were made by somebody else about impending mineral developments  Sir Charles  Court was unable to posture, as he normally does, and puff himself up with his own windy rhetoric. But the clue that it gives us is to his attitude in other respects. The policy put forward by  Sir Charles  Court at that time can only accurately be described as one of economic sabotage in that he was willing, and indeed that he attempted, to coerce mining companies into refusing funds from government or semi-government bodies which would have enabled mining enterprises to get off the ground simply because it deflated his ego when he was not able to take the credit for it, to grandstand and to posture in the way that he normally does. 

 Sir Charles, of course, had presided over the great expansion of mining which was, given the state of the world mining industry at that time, that is in 1960s, inevitable. As a result of having presided over those inevitable events he evidently persuaded himself, with the assistance of a very gullible Western Australian newspaper and a number of other Western Australians, that he was responsible for the inevitable events and what he called the great developments which followed. When tested, of course, under more difficult circumstances, that is, in the last three years,  Sir Charles  Court has been shown to be a miserable failure. 
I am speaking on this Bill and I am seeking enlightenment on the attitude of the Liberal Party towards the principle of government financial involvement in private business, because 3 1/2 years ago we had a Liberal Premier- who is still a Liberal Party Premierblackmailing mining companies. 
I move: 
After paragraph ( b ), insert the following paragraph: "(ba) the articles of the society are amended to provide for representation of the Commonwealth on the Board of Directors until the amount borrowed is fully repaid; ' 
I noted that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  when signalling the Government's rejection of this amendment stated that it would be incongruous for the Government still to have a direct representative on the board after the guarantee had been discharged. He seems to be quibbling about the difference between the loan itself being repaid and the Government's guarantee being discharged. In spite of that objection, the Opposition still intends to proceed with the amendment, particularly in the view of the far from satisfactory past history of this company and the lethargic, to say the least, action taken in the State of Victoria between the 18 months when tie company become insolvent in June 1975 and the end of 1 976 when finally the court was asked t&gt;i investigate this matter. The Opposition believes that the Government should have a representative directly associated with the management of the company. 
I would like a definitive answer on this question. I believe that  Senator Carrick  said that the cash on hand is sufficient to discharge all the obligations, meaning that the cash on hand now is $14m. On the other hand,  Senator Tehan  appears to include in the $ 14m the $9m loan that the Co-operative presumes it will get as a result of this guarantee having been given. In other words, if I understand the position correctly, the Government is guaranteeing a loan of $9m against the security of the market value of the assets, which appears to be $ 10.5m. Is that correct? 
I want to speak briefly in support of the amendment.  Senator Carrick,  in closing the second reading debate, forecast the Government's opposition to this amendment for a reason that was also stated in the Victorian Parliament, I understand. That is, if the company was under investigation its ability to borrow funds would be prejudiced. I concede that in a normal commercial situation that is highly likely, but it does not seem to me to be a very convincing argument when the borrowings would be backed by a guarantee from the two governments. I do not think that is a very valid point, and I was not impressed by the reasons given in the House of 
Representatives by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard). Mr Willis  pointed out in the House that an inquiry had been called for by, among other people, the directors of the company, the Victorian Farmers Union, in which there would be a high degree of membership of the shareholders of the Co-operative, and perhaps most significantly, the members of the National Country Party in the Victorian State Parliament, who have backed the Labor Party-initiated call for an inquiry. So we have the National Country Party, the Labor Party in the State of Victoria, the Victorian Farmers Union, which has virtually the same membership as the shareholders of the Cooperative, and the directors of the Co-operative all calling for an inquiry. The only resistance to an inquiry appears to come from the Liberal Government in the State of Victoria. 
The Treasurer, when forecasting the Government's rejection of the amendment in the House of Representatives, said: 
. it cannot accept the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  for the very simple reason that he is asking this Parliament to double guess a decision of the Victorian Parliament regarding the exercise of powers within the province of the Victorian Government. 
He continued: 
I put it to the Opposition in this place that that is the right forum wherein to determine whether there should be an inquiry under Victorian legislation into a body which operates under that legislation in respect of conduct which is covered by Victorian law. 
That might be a fair statement if the Victorian Government were providing all the funds, but half of this guarantee is being covered by the Commonwealth Government, and I suggest that that makes it the business of the Commonwealth Parliament. I think it is quite in order that, as a condition of the loan guarantee of $4.5m by the Commonwealth Government, an inquiry should be held. Given that just about everyone associated with this matter has called for an inquiry, it seems that the reluctance of the Victorian Government to agree might be associated with some fear as to what an inquiry might turn up, in view of the number of other peculiar dealings that have been exposed by way of inquiry in Victoria in the last couple of years. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to a statement on merino ram exports made by the Minister for Primary Industry at Deniliquin some weeks ago. I ask: Does the Government propose to remove the embargo on ram exports notwithstanding the decision of the 1973 wool growers referendum? If so, is the Government re- endorsing the export policy put forward in the 1967 White Paper of the Australian Wool Board, including the motion that increased wool production would lead to higher wool prices? If not, what is the Government's rationale for allowing exports? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What expenditure has been incurred by the Australian Wool Corporation for advertising its Limited Option to Purchase Scheme. 
What is the estimated future expenditure for advertising. 
From what source will the expenditure be drawn. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. It concerns the sale of 3 million tonnes of wheat to China that was announced by the Australian Wheat Board on 4 July 1977. The contract was to be filled over the 12 months to August 1978. I understand that the price was $93.30 per tonne for Australian standard white. I ask: Were Chicago grain futures exchange net prices for Australian standard white above $93.30 per tonne at the time the contract was announced? Does, or can, the Wheat Board trade on the Chicago futures exchange? Do any discounts apply which could reduce the announced price of $93.30 per tonne? 

 - Senator Archer has, in an ambivalent way, discussed this Bill. One can well understand his ambivalence because if one reads between the lines of his speech it is quite clear that he recognises that this legislation is in error and is ill-conceived, and that he ought to be voting for the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Mulvihill.  Of course,  Senator Archer  does not have the courage to defy his boss in the House of Representatives by voting for the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party.  His  way of extricating himself from that awkward situation is to propose a wishy-washy amendment to refer this Bill to a committee thereby, he hopes, passing the buck and getting himself off the hook. 
I should like to give some factual background to this Bill. It provides $4.2m this year to the States for tending pine forests planted during the 12 years 1966-1977 inclusive. It is important to note that the Schedule to the Bill explicitly states that no funds will be provided for land purchases or for new plantings. Clause 5 of the Schedule of the Bill states: 
The State shall ensure that an amount, or any part of an amount, paid to the State under this agreement is not used or applied except for the purpose of meering expenditure on tending planting during the five financial years. 
That is the five financial years covered by the Bill. So it is perfectly clear that none of this money which is being provided to the States by the Federal Government may be used either to purchase land for new plantings or to establish new plantings. Let us get that very clear: Unless the States are to meet this shortfall in capital availability from their own sources, the rate of public planting of pine forests will decline by 50 per cent. The money is provided to the States on loans with the interest payable at a long term bond rate. There is a holiday period of, I think, five years before the commencement of the repayment of the principle is required. 
The object of the softwood forestry program when it was initiated in the mid-1960s was to ensure that Australia had self-sufficiency in softwoods in the longer term, or something close to self-sufficiency, and probably it envisaged a transition gradually from hardwood to softwood usage in Australia as the hardwood forests were depleted because in many areas they were being overcut. In Western Australia they were quite seriously overcut. It was believed- indeed the present indicator still supports this belief- that Australian produced softwood timber could be price competitive with imported supplies. It is at the moment generally price competitive with imported timber and there is some evidence that in real terms timber prices are rising. It is estimated by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics that timber prices have been rising in real terms in the United Kingdom by about 2 per cent per annum and by about 1.8 per cent per annum in the United States, in addition to which freight rates, in real terms, also seem to be rising. So, if those assumptions are correct- they appear to be well based- local timber should remain price competitive with imports well into the future. 
Since sawmill costs on softwoods are lower than on hardwoods, due to easy access to large timber reserves, generally large mills are established and consequential higher labor productivity is achieved. The indications strongly favour the belief that Australian softwood timber will remain price competitive with imports well into the future. Therefore, a program aimed at achieving self-sufficiency will be economically sound. As  Senator Archer  stated in the more rational and realistic part of his address, it is very difficult to project long term demands for timber for a number of reasons. One reason is that, within fairly wide parameters, the time of harvesting for softwood forests is optional. We could choose to harvest them at 25 years, 30 years, 40 years or perhaps even 50 years. So, there is a great deal of flexibility in annual outturn because of the flexibility in the maturation period. It is also difficult to estimate the demand not only because of change in fashions but also because of the crucial role of the population growth. For example, a population growth of 1.5 per cent per annum as against a static population would double the demand for housing a generation hence. Since it has been established that it is difficult to forecast with any accuracy population growth rates, that is an additional uncontrollable variable which very seriously affects the demand. 
Then, of course, there is the question of substitution, relative pricing and so on, and the long term nature of the whole project. If we are thinking of sawlogs, a minimum time period of about 25 years is required, and it is not easy to predict with any certainty anything that happens 25 years ahead. Indeed, the quotation which  Senator Archer  has read from Douglas and Treadwell at the Australian Forest Development Institute Conference last year- incidentally, I was going to quote from that document- set out the projections based on the most recent available population growth of the required rate of planting between 1976 and 1980 up to the year 2020. It is significant, however, that  Senator Archer  ceased quoting from that document at the time he did. He had said that the estimated plantation requirement for this 5-year period of 1976-1980 was about 1 1,700 hectares per year, which was well below the 33,000 hectares per year for total Government and private plantings which we have seen in recent years. He cut off the quotation at that point. In fact, the article continued: 
As is elaborated below, the rapid shifts in planting rates implied in the above figures could cause management problems and hence, some smoothing of the planting levels could be necessary. 
Later in that document, it is stated:   . . where the required plantation rate jumps from 12,000 ha to 25,000 ha after 1980). As discussed in the BAE report such fluctuations might be technically valid from the supply/demand balance point of view, but they could create severe problems for the organisations responsible for plantation establishment and a longer term approach was acknowledged as being more practical. One solution, from the management point of view, would be to even out the plantation requirements from one period to the next. 
What all that means is that if we accept a rigid maturation period of around 30 years and do not look beyond the year 2020, the rate of plantings compatible with that likely to follow from this legislation is acceptable. But if we look beyond the early part of the next century it becomes probable- indeed, it becomes more than probable; it becomes highly probable- that a planting rate of 25,000 hectares per year will be required to fill demand in the longer term. If this legislation is passed and unless there are compensatory plantings either from State funded sources alone or from private sources, the planting rate will drop below 20,000 hectares per year. Whilst that appears to be enough in the immediate future- that is, of course, pitched at demand 30 or 35 years hence- if we look beyond the 1980 time for the required planting rate we need about 25,000 hectares. 
It ought to be fairly obvious, as the Treadwell and Douglas paper notes, that it is highly desirable under any circumstances to maintain reasonable continuity and stability in the volume of plantings from one time period to the next. The Government proposes in this Bill that by restricting finance in the five year period a drastic reduction will be induced in the rate of plantings which will subsequently in the post- 1980 period have to be compensated for by an acceleration in the rate of plantings. If the Government has its way we will move from a high rate of planting in the immediate past to a very low rate of planting in the immediate future and an intermediate rate of planting in the higher future. We believe that at any time this action is quite clearly undesirable but at this time, for reasons which I will make clear shortly, it is ludicrous. 
What is untrue? 
What I have said comes from the Treadwell and Douglas paper from which the honourable senator has already quoted. The paper stated that a planting rate of 25,000 hectares per year seems to be required for the period after 1980. A planting rate of that magnitude is not provided for in this Bill. It is explicitly stated in clause 5 of the Schedule from which I have quoted that none of these funds may be used to purchase land or to establish new plantations. It is worth observing in passing that for various reasons, one of which is that there are very compelling ecological and economic objections to destroying hardwood forests for planting softwood forests, there is a good ecological and economic case for purchasing farmlands, particularly marginal farmlands, for planting under pines. That is explicitly precluded by the legislation which we have before us. 
To maintain self-sufficiency for which there appears to be a very strong case and to maintain a reasonable level of stability year to year in the volume of plantings- nobody can be certain about these things when we are looking 30 or 40 years hence- it is necessary to plant more pines in this five-year period than this Bill provides for. We also have moved this amendment because we are not now in normal times. Australia is going through a period of deep economic recession. As I will demonstrate in a moment, it has become obvious even to the Premier of Western Australia- it has to be really obvious before it becomes obvious to him- that in a period of deep recession there is an especially strong case for government investment in capital works. Planting pines is one example of public capital works. Even  Sir Charles  Court has the message that if unemployed resources already exist in the country it makes good sense for governments to employ these otherwise unused resources on projects which will have long term benefits for the nation. Instead of expanding public capital expenditure of that nature we find that this Government, in the area of forestry as well as in a number of other areas, actually plans to wind back on public capital expenditure during a recessionary period. The pre-Keynesian economics of the 1920s which played a major role in multiplying the recession of the early 1 930s are alive and well in Australia under this Government. To return to  Sir Charles  Court, I will quote from the  West Australian  of 25 April which in turn was reporting an address which  Sir Charles  Court delivered in Sydney to a body which calls itself the Young Presidents Organisation. In one of his rare moments of economic perspicacity  Sir Charles  said: 
Government capital does not have to expand government at all. Government capital can, in fact, expand the private sector. 
If we restrict that idea to employment  Sir Charles  Court knows what he is saying. Despite all his fulminations about socialism and the undesirability of expanding State bureaucracies, nobody has expanded State government employment by as much as  Sir Charles  Court. The Flinders Labour Institute showed in its most recent quarterly bulletin that in fact there had been a 62 per cent increase in State government employment in Western Australia since 1971 and a 50 per cent increase since December 1973 which is roughly the period when  Sir Charles  Court became Premier. The growth is well in excess of the growth of State government employment in any other State. If  Sir Charles  Court, above all people looks at these statistics he should realise that the growing absolute level of employment in Western Australia about which he so proudly boasts can be directly ascribed to the expansion of State government employment under his stewardship. To continue with the quote from  Sir Charles  Court:  lt - 
That is the Government-  can do so - 
That is, expand the public sector-  by backing big programs to accelerate the development of the working assets of a nation: 
Railways. 
Roads. 
Ports. 
Water. 
Power. 
Sewerage and drainage. 
He did not mention forestry planning, but he may well have included it with these other items. He continued: 
Such a program could be seen as a necessity in every country. 
There is not one country whose public working assets do not need improvement or expansion . . . 
If we jump in now with programs to improve the working assets of our nations we will be using idle capacity to do it . . . 
It makes sense to move now- without any delay at all - into something like a five year plan to improve the working assets of our nation and simultaneously start the world on the road back to recovery by providing demand leadership of a positive and valuable kind. 
He continued. 
Where will the money come from? 
In most countries, there is less a shortage of capital than a shortage of faith or opportunity to use it well. 
In some countries there are massive surpluses which could well be dispersed around the world in direct loans. 
I will return to that last point later. When stripped of all the pretentious verbiage  Sir Charles  Court is actually saying that public capital expenditure can at least help to lift a depressed economy out of a recession. It is not exactly an original thought. Keynes wrote on it in the 1930s. Keynesian economists have been advocating it ever since. They call it pump priming or compensatory spending. The Labor Party has been advocating it lamentably without success to this Government for the last couple of years.  Sir Charles  Court finally has caught up with this very old idea. Whilst it would have been preferable if  Sir Charles  Court had caught up with it about a generation earlier, we welcome him aboard and observe in passing that his entry into the world of Keynesian rationality, retarded though it has been, is better late than never. 
The problem- I refer here to overseas loanswith turning people like  Sir Charles  Court loose on the Arab loan market, something which he has dearly wanted to do over the last couple of years, is that experience shows that he cannot be trusted to spend wisely the money he borrows.  Sir Charles  Court was the chief architect of the scandalous Ord River scheme in which more than $100m at current value has already been sunk in capital investment. This not only fails to produce any dividends but also provides a continuing drain on the Treasury of Western Australia to keep alive the handful of farmers who are still there. Whilst the idea is sound- it is pleasing to note that  Sir Charles  has belatedly caught up with the idea that Keynes articulated in the 1 930s- its execution in the hands of such a person is highly suspect. I also observe in passing that I find it somewhat ironic that  Sir Charles  Court of all people should be advocating that an Australian government should borrow money overseas to stimulate capital investment of a governmental nature in Australia. I seem to remember that when that idea was floated back in 1975  Sir Charles  Court thought it was an outrageous proposition. It has taken him 40 years to catch up with John Maynard Keynes; it has taken him only three years to catch up with Rex Connor. 
The further amendment proposed by  Senator Archer  only ducks the issue.  Senator Archer  obviously knows very well that this piece of legislation, which explicitly denies funds for new plantations is misconceived. He and the people who support him know that they should be voting for the amendment that we have moved. I suspect that they will not vote for that amendment. They will try to dodge the wrath of both the rational section of the society which takes a deep interest in this matter and the electors in Tasmania. They will try to dodge the wrath of their electors and their Leader by passing the buck off to a committee. It just is not good enough. 
It did not have any option. It is like the former Treasurer just prior to the election agreeing to resign when he had the option of getting the sack. It is like saying that somebody who has been told that he is to be executed in the morning and is given a cyanide pill to swallow the night before commits suicide. That is the sort of option which the Government of Tasmania had.  Senator Archer  now has an opportunity to give the Tasmanian Government another option, the option of having the Government of which he is a backbencher censured by the Senate for introducing a misconceived piece of legislation- as it has done. The amendment which has been foreshadowed by  Senator Archer  just is not good enough. It seeks to dodge the issue. The amendment that  Senator Mulvihill  has moved confronts the issue. I strongly urge any honourable senators on the other side who are willing to take the rational view of this matter, and unwilling just to pass the buck as  Senator Archer  proposes to do, to vote for the amendment that we have moved; firstly, because it ensures that there will be reasonable continuity in the volume of plantings which are required to provide self-sufficiency, and secondly, because at this time, with the economy deep in recession, there is an extraordinarily good case for public capital investment of this nature. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to the domestic sugar price. On 10 April- almost a month agothe Minister wrote to  Dr Everingham,  the honourable member for Capricornia, in response to a request from  Dr Everingham,  saying that new information had come to light which the Government was now studying and that it would announce a decision shortly. That was nearly a month ago. Has a decision yet been made? If not, when can we expect a decision to be made? Does the Government, as the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs indicated at the Press briefing following Wednesday's Government parties meeting, intend to index domestic sugar prices in accordance with the consumer price index? If so, what will be the base year for indexation purposes? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I seek some enlightenment on the Government's intentions regarding stage 2 of the proposed dairy industry marketing arrangements. Specifically, is it expected that any legislation will be introduced in this session of the Parliament to provide for the implementation of stage 2? Failing that, will the Minister ask the Minister for Primary Industry for a ministerial statement within the next couple of weeks setting out the Government's intentions in this matter? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs whether the Australian Government claims that Christmas Island is Australian territory, even though it is nearly 800 miles closer to the coast of Java than to the coast of Australia? If the Government does claim it is Australian territory, when will the laws of Australia, particularly wage laws, apply to an island which the Government proclaims to be legally part of Australia? 
I seek leave to make a brief statement. 
Leave granted. 
I have just learnt that  Senator Rae  is not intending to proceed with the amendment that he forecast last week in the debate. The Opposition would not have supported any amendment which would have held up the passage of the Bill and the payment of the funds. I presume that the knowledge that that is so would have been one of the reasons why he has decided not to proceed with the proposed amendment. Moreover, we could see little point in moving that sort of pious amendment, bearing in mind that, even if a Senate select committee did recommend that funds be provided for capital expenditure purposes, the Senate could not amend the Bill and the Government would be under no obligation to take any notice of such a recommendation. Whilst I cannot unequivocally commit the Opposition to any future course of action, I expect that if  Senator Rae  subsequently cares to move that this matter be referred to a committee of the Senate for study after this legislation has been passed such a move would be supported by the Opposition. 
The International Sugar Agreement Bill 1978 ratifies Australia's participation in the 1977 International Sugar Agreement. Current world sugar production exceeds sales by about five million tons. In addition to that, there is a very substantial stockpile of unsold sugar in the world. This five million tons surplus annual production represents only about 5 per cent of total production, but it is a much higher proportion of the sugar which is traded internationally. It represents about 20 per cent of international sales. Excess supplies of that magnitude would induce a catastrophic price fall in the classical free market situation, as it has done in the past. If we look at the record of Australian export sugar prices over the past decade or so we see that from a low of $59 a ton in 1967-68 prices slowly increased to $100 a ton in 1971-72 and then in 1975-76 to an enormous $276 a tonne. Such price fluctuations have been recorded in previous sugar cycles and, in the absence of some control of supplies onto the market, we could expect that world prices would tumble catastrophically to a level of probably $ 100 a tonne or thereabouts. 
The agreement attempts to avoid that sort of catastrophic price decline. For that reason the Australian Labor Party does not oppose the Bill. But the agreement will be only partially successful. In particular, it has two glaring weaknesses. Firstly, the European Economic Community, which is a major sugar producer and, on occasions, a major sugar exporter and which is always a notorious dumper of surplus agricultural commodities on the world markets, is not a signatory to the agreement The EEC currently holds substantial stocks of surplus sugar. It is expected to have about 1.8 million tons in current production in excess of its local demand. Secondly, the agreement does not establish a minimum price. It requires the signatories not to exceed their export quotas if prices for 75 consecutive days are below 1 1 United States cents per pound ex Caribbean ports. The export quota- that is the term used in the Bill- for nearly all nations is around 85 per cent of past exports or, as the Bill puts it, of basic export tonnages. 
Let me make this perfectly clear: There is nothing in this agreement to prevent sugar prices falling to zero provided the signatories to the agreement do not export more than 85 per cent, or in some instances 82 per cent, of their basic export tonnages- that is, broadly speaking, that percentage of their past exports. Indeed, for several months actual prices have been well below 1 1 cents a pound. They have held at above 8 cents a pound and are currently, I understand, in the vicinity of 7.3 cents a pound. Fortunately a good deal of Australia's potential supplies are tied up in long-term contracts and will not have to be sold on the free market. I noticed an item in today's  Australian  newspaper suggesting- I do not know whether it is correct- that the significance of the agreement might be even less than we imagined it was before. But there is some doubt whether the United States of America will participate in the agreement. If the United States does not participate in the agreement, it provides even less security for the Australian industry than we previously thought. 
Under the agreement Australia's export quota, which is the term used in the legislation, is about two million tonnes. Domestic consumption totals somewhat below 800,000 tonnes, giving a total secured market of around 2.8 million tonnes. Australia's production peaked in 1976-77 at 3.294 million tonnes and is expected this year to be around 3.2 million tonnes. Thus current production exceeds the potential market by between 400,000 and 500,000 tonnes of sugar or about 1 5 per cent. Because of this market reality the Australian sugar industry is subject to a two-way squeeze. Firstly, it will not be able to sell about 15 per cent of its output; secondly, it will receive lower prices for the 85 per cent output which it might be able to sell. A combination of those two factors has largely induced the present campaign to recover some of the industry's losses by increasing the domestic price of sugar from $260 to $340 a tonne. I make the observation in passing that the Government has been extremely tardy in making a decision on that issue. 
The Government has been less than honest in presenting to the industry the harsh reality which the industry faces. As I shall demonstrate, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  who introduced this Bill in the other place, has consistently misrepresented the facts. For that reason, the Opposition will seek to move an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. In the meantime, I shall briefly review the Government's persistent misrepresentations of fact relevant to this issue. A Press release issued by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on 6 October 1977, at the time of  Mr 
Anthony's return from Geneva where the Agreement was negotiated, stated: 

 Mr Anthony's return to Geneva this week enabled a breakthrough in the conclusion of the new International Sugar Agreement. 
The agreed price range of 1 1 to 2 1 cents, equivalent to SA220 to $A420 a tonne, will mean a lift in returns to the world sugar industry of the order of $2,000m when measured against the prevailing world price which has been as low as 98 Pounds Sterling (about $A 1 55 ). 
That extract is directly relevant to the amendment we propose to move. There is nothing in this agreement to prevent the price of sugar falling down to or below the $ 1 55 a tonne which  Mr Anthony  portrayed as being a catastrophically low price. In a statement in the other place on 1 3 October 1977, following  Mr Anthony's  return from Geneva, he said: 
The Agreement establishes a price range of 1 1 to 2 1 United States cents per pound- equivalent to SA2I7 to $A414 per tonne. Provision is made for review of the price range and upward adjustment when this is considered appropriate. 
To contemplate upward adjustment now or in the foreseeable future is, incidentally, a blatant example of wishful thinking. But once again the significant point is that the  Deputy  Prime Minister misrepresented this Agreement as being something which established a price range between 1 1 and 2 1 United States cents per pound. It does no such thing. In a statement on 26 October 1977  Mr Anthony  continued with this theme when he said: 
The first break-through had been the negotiation in Geneva of an International Sugar Agreement. This Agreement promised stability in the face of an almost certain world sugar recession. It also established a price range of 1 1 to 2 lc per lb- 
Again, we have the same basically misleading statements. But during the election campaign,  Mr Anthony  became even more reckless and less factual in his statements. The  Sydney Morning Herald  of 2 December 1977 reported statements he made in Townsville. I suggest it is highly significant that this statement was made in North Queensland.  Mr Anthony  said: 
. the international sugar agreement has provided the Australian sugar industry with stability . . . 
The report continues: 
Provided we keep reasonable limitations on what is produced, the big things really worrying the Australian sugar industry are now behind us. 
Further on in the report it is stated: 
From then-- 
That is in the middle of 1978, when read in context-  when the sugar agreement started to operate, the market would tighten and sugar prices could be expected to rise. 
We are now almost into the middle of 1978. In fact, sugar prices are falling, contrary to what the Deputy Prime Minister said during that election campaign. There is no reason whatsoever to believe that they will rise in the foreseeable future. The consistent misrepresentation in all those statements is that the International Sugar Agreement has stabilised the sugar industry by establishing a minimum price. I must repeat again that it does no such thing. Prices on the free market at present are below 8c per lb, when the Deputy Prime Minister would have had the industry believe that the minimum price is 11c per lb. 

 Mr Anthony did not come clean even when making his second reading speech on this Bill a few weeks ago. In reply to a question asked in the House on 8 March 1978,  Mr Anthony  misrepresented the effect of the quantitative restrictions imposed on Australia by the International Sugar Agreement. When I say that, I am referring to the 85 per cent of past exports which Australia is entitled to export under this Agreement. In reply to a question about the effect of this restriction in output or sales, the  Deputy  Prime Minister said:  . . it does not mean to say that sugar cane will necessarily be wasted. In some cases sugar could be carried over from one year to another and harvested the following year. 
It is technically correct that sugar can be carried over from one year to another although I understand that there is some significant decline in quality or in yield. But, far more importantly, I point out that that can be done for one year only. If the market continues to be depressed- there is every indication that it will- the figure will be half a million tonnes this year and one million tonnes next year. The answer of the Deputy Prime Minister also blithely ignores the effect on sugar growers' incomes of not being able to market 15 per cent of their crop in any particular year. 
The Queensland Minister for Primary Industries,  Mr Sullivan,  came much closer to letting the industry know the truth. He was reported in the 

 West Australian of 28 February 1978 as saying that the Australian sugar industry would face a major financial burden for a while after the negotiation of the new International Sugar Agreement. He continued and said: 
The stock-holding obligations of the export members are quite substantial, and Australia is required to establish its stock of about 400,000 tonnes over the next three years. 
I will return to that point later in my speech.  Mr Sullivan  continued: 
This will impose a major financial burden on the industry at a time when the expansion of its bulk storage and handling facilities is also making substantial demands on available finance. 
I understand that this is particularly the case in the Mackay and Bundaberg regions where significant increases in sugar assignments have taken place in the last couple of years. I now want to deal with the question of pricing. The  London Financial Times  of 5 April 1978 contained a comment on a significant sale of sugar by the Soviet Union. It stated: 
World sugar prices fell yesterday in response to reports that Russia had resold substantial amounts of white sugar bought earlier in the season to traditional outlets. 
In the morning the London daily raw sugar price was marked down 2 to 100 a tonne - 
This is pounds sterling- and on the futures market August delivery prices closed at 3.675 lower at  106 a tonne. 
That price of 106 sterling a tonne is very close to the 100 a tonne which  Mr Anthony  cited in one of his earlier releases- it is equivalent to $155 or thereabouts in Australian currency. He claimed it would be a catastrophic price; a price to which sugar would have fallen had this agreement not been negotiated. As that report clearly demonstrates, the commercial expectation of the industry is that that is what the international free market price of sugar will be in August of this year. 
As I mentioned before, it is very fortunate for the sugar industry that more than half of Australia 's likely exports are committed in long term contracts which, incidentally, were negotiated during the period of the Labor Government. When we look back to that period now, it is ironic to review the comments made about those agreements at the time they were made, particularly those made by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He now denounces everyone who draws attention to the present sick reality of the Australian economy as being in some way guilty of treasonable conduct. I have in front of me a Press release from the Liberal Party of Australia, dated 22 April 1974, under the name of the  Hon.  Malcolm Fraser, MP. In this Press release,  Mr Fraser  was building up the theme that agriculture was going through a period of catastrophic price decline and recession. I point out that farm incomes have fallen by about 50 per cent since he said that. In attempting to denigrate the importance of the sales contracts which the then Labor Government had been instrumental in concluding, he said: 

 Mr Whitlam claims to have built up new markets. 
The agreements that have been made are worthless because no price is built into them. The farmer is unprotected on the world markets. 
He went on to say: 
The Government's wheat and sugar deals with China give no protection because there are no price commitments by the Chinese. 

 Mr Fraser would now have us believe that such a comment is almost treasonable. It is the sort of comment which he now identifies as economic sabotage. In view of that disparaging comment, it is even more ironic to note the comments made by the Premier of Queensland on the value of these agreements which the present Prime Minister had decreed to be worthless in 1974. The  Age  newspaper of 14 July 1977 reports  Mr BjelkePetersen  as saying: 
I haven't the slightest doubt the Japanese will honour the original contract terms. 
That is one of the contracts which  Mr Fraser  would have had us believe was worthless. This statement also appeared in the  Courier-Mail  of 17 September 1977, somewhat later: 
He - 
That is  Mr Bjelke-Petersen-  said that the State Government would continue to pursue the objective of the full 1974 contract price. 
He was speaking about the contract with Japan. As I mentioned earlier in my address, the history of world sugar prices is one of extreme instability. There have been cycles in the past when sugar has been in relatively short supply. This cyclical activity occurs partly because a relatively small proportion of total sugar production is exported. Most of it is consumed either within the country where it is grown or within the European Economic Community which does not enter into the general world trade. It ought not to be surprising to anybody looking at the industry to discover that the very high prices of the mid 1970s fell. Of course, there has always been a temptation when prices are very high to expand significantly the production base. We fell for this in the early 1960s after the conflict between Cuba and the United States of America had disrupted the world sugar market. The price rose and there was a significant increase in assignments and mill peaks within Australia. 
The same thing happened in the 1970s. To some extent it is defensible to do this, because had Australian production not been expanded during that period the basic quota which Australia now has under this agreement would probably have been lower. The criticism I want to make relates to the time at which this expansion took place. In 1976 the gross assignmentsthat is, the land that is licensed to grow sugarwere increased from 320,000 hectares to 348,000 hectares. If one goes back as far as 1972 one finds that there were assignments to 320,000 hectares. The area granted for sugar assignments had varied by only a few thousand hectares going right back to 1 967. 
But in 1976 additional assignments were issued for 28,000 hectares. At that time world sugar prices were already falling. The boom had passed, and that expansion was substantially responsible for the industry's present surplus capacity. I suggest that the Government of Queensland ought to have made a more astute assessment of the likely potential market for sugar at that time, given that the cycle of high prices caused by either crop failure or some other market disruption like the United States-Cuba dispute of the early 1 960s induces boom prices, which in turn induce an expansion of acreage planted in most of the major sugar-producing countries and, consequently, another depression. At the very time when sugar prices were falling the Queensland Government took that decision to increase the assignment area by about 9 per cent. If we look at the mill peaks, we find that the same sort of proportions are reflected. 
I want to make one other comment on the question of the expansion of the sugar industry and, in particular, to issue a warning. For many years the Premier of Western Australia has been endeavouring to find some use for the water that is stored at Kununurra in the north of Western Australia at a cost of more than $100m in current value dollars. The dam that was completed, I think in 1971 or 1972, originally to grow cotton, has been a miserable failure, as anyone who looked rationally at the proposal from the beginning had said it would be. But this is one of the Western Australian Premier's private obsessions, and since cotton growing, rice growing, fattening beef cattle, growing sorghum, and everything that he has ever proposed for the area has failed, a couple of years ago, because sugar prices were high, he got the idea that perhaps sugar could be grown in the Ord. Technically, of course, there is no reason why we cannot do it; the problems are economic and not technical. So a pilot program for commercial sugar production was started in the Ord. In the  West Australian  on 4 March the following report appears under the headline 'Sugar Plan at Ord goes on ': 
Restraints on sugar production in Australia will not deter the State Government's investigations into a commercial sugar industry on the Ord River. 
The report then goes on to give the details. The particular warning I want to give here is that if the Premier of Western Australia is turned loose on the Arab loan market to borrow the $300m that he wants to borrow in order to establish a sugar industry in the Ord, not only will the longsuffering taxpayers of Western Australia have to foot the bill for greatly expanded losses on this project- and I mention as an aside that in addition to getting no return on the $100m-odd that is invested, the program has been a continuous strain on the Treasury of Western Australia; about $3m a year has been contributed by the Western Australian Treasury to maintain the handful of token farmers who still exist in the Ord in order to camouflage the fact that the Premier's pet scheme has been a complete failure, which it has been- but also it will seriously add to the surplus capacity that is likely to continue. 
It has been estimated by CSR Ltd that the minimum production cost in the Ord is in the vicinity of $300 a tonne. That is stated in the updated report of the CSR 1975 study. Current market prices, as we have already seen, are in the vicinity of $ 1 50 to $ 1 60 a tonne. At those prices, for production of some 200,000 tonnes of raw sugar, which is what is envisaged, we can anticipate an annual loss of about $28m or $30m. That is what it would cost under present conditions to support the Western Australian Premier's pipe dream on the Ord. I make this point because there is a very real danger that if the Federal Government relaxes its controls over borrowings by State governments, if it turns the Western Australian Premier loose on the Arab loan market or on any other loan market, he will borrow $300m and set up the sugar growing plan as he hopes to do, and ultimately the national Government will be called upon to meet the $28m or $30m annual losses which are likely to ensue. 
I want to make a couple more points about some of the minor matters which are covered in this Bill- they are minor relative to the fact that this agreement obliges Australia to restrict its sales by 1 5 per cent and provides absolutely no guarantee of a minimum price. Indeed, it contains nothing to prevent prices falling right down to zero. In addition, the agreement imposes obligations on Australia to hold stocks. One of the earlier quotations I made mentioned that there are stocks of up to 400,000 tonnes. There are fairly vague provisions in the agreement which require both importers and exporters to contribute to funding those stocks. The provisions are vague, and it is not at all clear what extra burden this obligation will impose upon the Australian industry. Specifically, the questions which have not been adequately answered are: Will loans from the stock financing fund established under the agreement meet all the cost of holding stocks of sugar? Recent reports in the Australian Press of borrowings overseas of some SI 6m, I think, by the Queensland Government or guaranteed by the Queensland Government suggest that the answer to that question is no, that the funds will have to be found by the industry and /or by the Queensland Government. If the stock financing fund is not supplied under the agreement, who will meet the difference between the loans from the fund and the total cost? Is the sugar likely to be carried over from one year to another and, if so, where will it be stored? What other implications flow on from this to the industry generally? On behalf of the Opposition, I move: 
At end of motion, add', but the Senate- 
deplores the Australian Government's failure to: 
secure a larger basic export tonnage as established under paragraph 1 of Article 34 of the Schedule, 
inform the cane growers that the loans available from the Stock Financing Fund under Article 53 may not cover the entire cost of holding stocks of sugar. 
announce any specific arrangements in the event of the loans from the Stock Financing Fund being less than cost of storage, and 
acknowledge that the $US0. 1 per lb quota trigger price is not a guaranteed price and that the present world price is well below and likely to remain below SUS0.11 per lb; and 
Condemns the Minister for misrepresenting the Agreement's pricing provisions and their likely impact on Australian export prices'. 
I think I have demonstrated from the extracts I have read that there has been a whole series of misleading statements by the Deputy Prime Minister on this matter, beginning in October last year and continuing to the second reading speech on the Bill. Therefore censure by the Senate for misrepresenting the pricing provisions of the Agreement is well merited. 
I have said several times that the crucial defects in this Bill are that the EEC is not a signatory to the Agreement, that its current production is well in excess of its likely sales, that the EEC is a notorious dumper of surplus agricultural commodities on world markets, and that there is nothing in this Agreement, given the serious oversupply situation that exists globally, to stop the price of sugar falling to zero. The only obligations imposed upon those people who are signatories to the Agreement is that they will not ship more than a certain tonnage of sugar if the price is below $US0.1 1 per lb. No other obligation is imposed on them. This is not just speculation. In fact it has happened. Sugar prices have been hovering at just above 8c per lb for a couple of months, and I understand that currently they are slightly below 8c per lb. The Government, in particular the Deputy Prime Minister, has not come clean on this issue, and the Deputy Prime Minister deserves to be censured by the Senate in this mild form by the carriage of the amendment I have moved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Is Australia represented on the International Wool Secretariat; if so, (a) what is the method of appointment of persons representing Australia; (b) what is the term of each such appointment; (c) who are the present Australian representatives on the International Wool Secretariat; (d) when were they appointed originally; (e) if subsequently reappointed, on what dates, and what is the expiry date for their respective terms of office; and (f) what remuneration do the Australian representatives on the International Wool Secretariat receive. 
What is the total Australian financial commitment to the International Wool Secretariat. 
Does the Australian Government provide any of those funds; if so, how much in each year from 1 973 to 1 977. 
Does the Australian Wool Corporation provide funds to the International Wool Secretariat; if so, on what basis, and what was the contribution in each year from 1973 to 1977. 
What was the total contribution for each member country of the International Wool Secretariat in each year from 1973 to 1977. 
Does the International Wool Secretariat publish an annual report and financial statement: if so, are they available to woolgrowers and other interested persons. 
Are the financial statements audited. 
The Opposition will oppose outright the first of these Bills, namely, the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill 1978. It will also oppose and seek to amend the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill 1978. 1 shall concentrate my remarks mostly on the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill and subsequent speakers will pay more attention to the second Bill we are debating. As is generally known, the Australian Labor Party is opposed to uranium mining in general, at least at this stage. Even if the Opposition were not generally opposed to uranium mining, it would still oppose these Bills, especially the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill, for reasons which I shall detail later. Our general objection to uranium mining is based on arguments which I think are fairly well known. I shall not repeat them in exhaustive detail. Our opposition is based mainly on the weapons proliferation danger and, probably more importantly, on the disposal of waste- on the fact that no safe technology exists for the disposal of nuclear waste. 
Reinforcing the Government's policy is a claim that the guidelines established by the Government make the use of nuclear technology acceptably safe. There are very serious doubts about whether the guidelines laid down by the Government last year will in fact be enforced by the Government or observed by the countries to which we may ultimately sell uranium. Other doubts arise because the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has also incorporated in the Government's policy an objection to fast breeder reactors. Indeed, the policy is backed partially by the contention that the freer availability of uranium- in particular Australian uranium- on world markets will remove the need for other countries to move into fast breeder technology. From previous statements made by the Prime Minister last year at the National Press Club it appears that he is of the opinion that only fast breeder reactors produce plutonium. Not only is that wrong as a matter of technical fact, but the point is that it is also a fact that conventional fission reactors using uranium 238 will produce more plutonium in producing any given quantity of electricity than a fast breeder reactor would produce in producing the same quantity of electricity. The plutonium would not be as concentrated, but it would still be produced and, in fact, it would be produced in greater quantities. 
More importantly, on the matter of waste disposal I want to make this point: If the Government really believed that there was safe technology for the disposal of nuclear waste and if it wished to maximise Australian control over uranium which might be exported from Australia it would insist upon- not just allowthe spent fuel rods from reactors being stored in Australia. If that were done the only uranium which would be outside our physical control would be that which is actually being used in a reactor overseas or the uranium which for six months after that use is in the form of rods which are being stored in the preliminary cooling process. The Government has done the opposite. It has repeatedly stated that it has absolutely no intention of storing reactor waste in Australia. That shows up a very serious inconsistency in the Government's policy. It demonstrates very clearly that the Government lacks faith in its assertion about the alleged acceptability of the risks entailed with nuclear technology. 
As an aside to that argument I mention that if in fact the nuclear waste were stored in Australia it would maximise the employment generating potential of the move into the nuclear system. I suppose I should make it quite clear that I am not advocating that particular strategy. I do not believe that the Government's assertions of the alleged safety of nuclear technology are accurate. The Government makes those assertions; the Government should back up those assertions, if it really believes them, by advocating the policy of storing waste in Australia. It does not do so because it knows that such a policy would be unacceptable. Either that is the case or it lacks the capacity to draw out any sort of logical deduction. 1 want to make it very clear that, as well as being obliged as a member of the Australian Labor Party, to support the policy of that Party, I personally support that policy, at least for the present. However, I can conceive that at some stage it might be necessary to move into nuclear technology. Most of the nations of the world might at some stage be compelled to do so. However, there is clearly no urgency to do so now. In my judgment, it is not acceptably safe to move into nuclear technology now, given the other options that we have and, in particular, given the fact that the world has sufficient coal to supply energy needs for at least 100 years and probably for 200 years. In 10, 20 or 30 years time, the options may be more limited, the risks may be less severe than they are now and, therefore, the conclusions may quite reasonably be altered. 
I also mention that some of the people who are opposed very strongly to nuclear energy see the issue in terms of a capitalist plot. They say that the capitalist system is attempting to impose nuclear technology on the rest of the world. Whatever reservations one might have about the morality of the capitalist system- I have quite a few- that explanation plainly is inadequate. It fails, to account for the fact that in addition to many of the Western industrialised or capitalist countries moving into nuclear technology, the 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in particular, Yugoslavia and the People's Republic of China also are moving into the widespread use of nuclear energy. Obviously, the capitalist plot theory fails to account for the reality of what is happening in those countries. I think that the opponents of nuclear energy would make their case more credible if they would mention that fact more often. 
A feature which is common to the use of nuclear energy, in both capitalist and communist countries, to use rather crude terms, is that it has a military application. That is the reason nuclear energy has been developed and why so much money has been spent on research and development in those countries. It was done for military purposes and the commercial purposes represent a spin-off. In particular, Russia, which is probably the world's worst nuclear vandal, ought to be censured by the opponents of nuclear technology. I certainly censure Russia in this respect. General objections to the mining of uranium or to the movement into the nuclear fuel cycle aside, the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill is a most unsatisfactory piece of legislation to use as a vehicle for Government policy. Firstly, the purpose of the amendment is avowedly and openly to enable commercial operations to be grafted on to the principal Act. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech stated: 
Amendments to the Act contained in this Bill will enable the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to participate on behalf of the Commonwealth in a joint venture with Peko/EZ. 
The Minister, later in his second reading speech stated: 
Accordingly, we are proposing amendments to sections 1 7 and 34 of the Atomic Energy Act which will substantially broaden the basis of the Act and clearly authorise the participation of the Australia Atomic Energy Commission in the Ranger Project for the purpose of ensuring the supply of uranium. 
The Government has clearly acknowledged that the purpose of this amending legislation to the Atomic Energy Act is commercial. It has tacked this commercial purpose or objective on to the principal Act, that is the Atomic Energy Act of 1953, which incorporates all the sweeping defence powers which the Commonwealth can assert for itself. The Fox commission explicitly recommended against the use of the Atomic Energy Act for this purpose. I shall read two short quotations from the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry Second Report. It recommended: 
That the Atomic Energy Act of 1953 not be used for the grant of an authority to Ranger to mine uranium. 
This recommendation subsequently was rejected by the Government. In a statement made on 25 August last year, the Prime Minister said: 
. having reviewed this matter, the Government nevertheless considered that the Atomic Energy Act provides an appropriate basis for mining operations at Ranger. 
In both the statement of the Prime Minister at that time and in introducing this legislation, the Government has rejected the recommendation of the Fox commission that it would be wrong to use the Atomic Energy Act of 1953 for this purpose. I know that Government supporters have said, and that probably Government supporters who subsequently participate in this debate will say, that the Labor Government at some time in the past planned to use the Atomic Energy Act for this purpose. I have two comments to make in respect of that matter: Firstly, it was not the intention of the Labor Government to use the Atomic Energy Act. It was perceived from opposition to the petroleum and minerals authority legislation and by the ultimate rejection of that legislation on a legal technicality by the High Court of Australia that the general hostility of the Liberal and National Country Parties which dominated the Senate of the day would prevent the then Labor Government from passing a more appropriate Act. That constraint does not apply to this Government today. But more importantly, the Memorandum of Understanding which was concluded between the then Labor Government, Peko Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd back in 1974 had tacked on to it a clause which stated: 
. shall not become effective until Australia has affirmed them following consideration of: 
the report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry; and 
a report by the Interim Aboriginal Land Commission or in any claims by Aboriginals in respect of land within the Ranger Project area. 
Apart from the constraints which the Labor Government of the day faced and which this Government does not face, there was always within that Memorandum of Understanding a provision to make the Memorandum inoperative if the Ranger uranium inquiry made particular recommendations and if those recommendations were accepted by the Government. Ultimately, the Labor Government did not have the opportunity to do anything about the matter. 
When we delve back into the history of what happened just 44 months ago it is more than a little ironic that today the Liberal and National Country Parties should attempt to use the Atomic Energy Act of 1953 as the vehicle to cany their uranium mining policy. On 19 September 1974, the Senate disallowed regulations proclaimed under the 1953 Atomic Energy Act to provide the basis for uranium mining in the Northern Territory. The attack on those regulations was led in the Senate by  Senator Durack  who now, to compound the irony, is AttorneyGeneral. I shall quote some of the statements made by  Senator Durack  at that time about the use of the Atomic Energy Act for the purpose of providing a legal vehicle for the commercial exploitation of uranium. He stated, inter alia: 
I have emphasised  that  adequate laws already exist in the Northern Territory and in the States under which people and companies seeking to explore for and to develop uranium must obtain exploration licences and licences to develop mines. They can do so only in accordance with the laws governing mining development generally in the State or Territory. 
That very point to which  Senator Durack  was then drawing attention is at the core of the current arguments which the Government is having with the States in respect of State rights.  Senator Durack  then went on to say that the States have regulations for mining and that they ought to be allowed to occupy this field. That seems to be basically the same argument which people supporting State rights are using against the Government today.  Senator Durack  continued: 
He - 
At that time he was referring to the Minister for Minerals and Energy- 
. is able to come in and take over complete control not only of the development and working of the uranium mine but also the exploration for uranium. If the powers were held to be legally valid- we are not concerned with that here- they would override completely all existing rights and titles which have been acquired by persons or companies under State or Territory laws. 
What  Senator Durack  really appears to have been objecting to there was not the use of regulations but the sweeping powers which the principal Act conferred upon the relevant Minister. I will quote just one of them at this stage, from the Atomic Energy Act 1953, section 4 1 . It states:  (2.) Subject to any conditions or restrictions specified in the authority, the person so authorized in relation to any land may - 
That is, authorised by the Minister- 
enter upon that land, with such workmen and other persons as he thinks fit, and bring on to that land such machinery, vehicles and other things as he thinks fit; 
take possession of the whole or a part of that land; 
Finally, sub-section (3) states: 
All prescribed substances - 
Prescribed substances are uranium, thorium and, I think, any substance containing any of the elements with an atomic weight above 93-  -and minerals mined or otherwise recovered in pursuance of an authority under this section that are not otherwise the property of the Commonwealth are, by force of this section, vested in the Commonwealth. 
That means that the Commonwealth asserts its right to seize any of those prescribed substances. So  Senator Durack  's objections, expressed in 1 974, were really objections to the principal Act itself, the principal Act which the Government is now using as the linchpin for its uranium mining policy.  Senator Durack  continued, in another context: 
At least that would give the Government some sort of powers in relation to uranium which, apparently, the Government would not have over minerals generally throughout Australia. 
He seemed to be objecting in that instance to the fact that the regulations and the principal Act gave the Government powers over uranium which it did not have over minerals generally. That is ironic when one looks at clause 5 of the amending Bill now before the House which extends the definition of minerals covered by the amending legislation to 'minerals found in association with uranium'. So this Liberal Party, which said three and a half years ago that it was a terrible thing for the Federal Government to attempt to proclaim rights over minerals other than uranium, is now introducing an amending Bill to do precisely that.  Senator Durack  continued: 
The object of the Act - 
That is the 1953 Act-  - and the wide powers given under it were, of course, at that time dictated very much by the strategic character of uranium as to its use in the production of atomic weapons and the great concern which was held at that time in respect of that subject. The Act itself was coloured by views as to the great strategic importance of uranium. 
He continued: 
Moreover, the Commonwealth Government has adequate powers in regard to the national interest as far as mining, including the mining of uranium, is concerned under its export control powers generally and under regulations that have been made under those powers. 
In making that statement  Senator Durack  clearly rejected the use of the Atomic Energy Act for any purpose other than defence purposes. He correctly identified the genesis of the Act- that it was seen as something that was strategically necessary at that time and it was something that was required for national security. I do not share that view, incidentally, but that was the way it was seen at the time and he correctly drew attention to it. He said that it would be quite improper to use it for any other purpose. That is precisely what the Government is doing with the first Bill that we are now debating. 
I have said a fair bit about  Senator Durack.  Even more importantly, 21 Liberal Party and National Country Party senators who voted for the disallowance of that regulation in 1974 are still in this Parliament. They are: Senators Baume, Bonner, Carrick, Chaney,  Sir Magnus  Cormack, Cotton, Davidson, Drake-Brockman, Durack, Guilfoyle, Jessop, Laucke, Martin, Maunsell, Missen, Rae, Scott, Sheil, Sim, Townley and Withers. Twenty-one of the Liberal Party and National Country Party senators who in 1974 disallowed regulations made under the Atomic Energy Act of 1953 on the grounds inter alia that it was quite improper to use an Act which was primarily a defence Act, or associated with the defence powers of the Commonwealth, for commercial purposes, presumably will all support a Bill which will do precisely that. 
I do not have very much time left in which to speak but I wanted to make three points about the principal Act. The principal Act asserts sweeping rights over property, State laws and individual liberties. In the property section it says- I shall not quote all of it- in section 4 1 : (1.) Where it appears to the Minister that a prescribed substance, or minerals from which, in the opinion of the Minister, a prescribed substance can be obtained - 
A prescribed substance is any element with an atomic weight above 93- if I remember correctly- is or are present on or under the whole or part of an area of land ... the Minister may . . . authorise a person to carry on . . . operations . . . 
That person may carry on operations on that land, erect buildings and so on. Finally, there is an all-embracing sub-section which states: 
do all such things as are necessary or convenient for the effectual exercise of the powers specified in the preceding paragraphs of this sub-section. 
Section 41 (3) gives the Minister power to seize control of all prescribed substances in the Commonwealth. In other words, it claims virtually unlimited powers over property. In relation to the States section 38 of the principal Act says: ( 1 .) The Regulations may- 
prohibit, or authorize the prohibition of, the working of minerals from which, in the opinion of the GovernorGeneral, a prescribed substance can be obtained; or 
prohibit, or authorize the prohibition of, the acquisition, production, treatment, possession, use or disposal of a prescribed substance . . . 
So in relation to a prescribed substance- that in itself has a pretty broad definition- the principal Act asserts that the Federal Government has power to pre-empt any State law. Of course, the amendment to this Bill broadens even more widely the definition of a prescribed substance to include 'minerals found in association with uranium'. Then it repeats section 38 (4.) of the principal Act- I think this is something like the relevant clause in the Constitution- which states: 
Nothing in this section affects the operation of a law of a State or Territory of the Commonwealth, except to the extent that that law is inconsistent with an order in force under this section. 
I think that is the same wording as a section of the Constitution but presumably, since it was repeated in this Act, the Government of the day wished to make it perfectly clear that this preempted virtually all States ' rights over mining. 
On the question of individual liberties, section 47 of the principal Act- one needs to put this into context; this is the section which specifies offences under the Act- says with respect to these offences: 
it is not necessary to show that he was guilty of a particular act tending to show an intent to prejudice the defence of the Commonwealth and, notwithstanding that no such act is proved against him, he may be convicted if, from the circumstances of the case, his conduct, or his known character as proved, it appears that he acted with intent to prejudice the defence of the Commonwealth . . . 
What that says is this: You do not have to prove that anyone acted to prejudice the defence of the Commonwealth; you just have to think that he acted as if he might have wanted to prejudice the defence of the Commonwealth.The penalty for that crime under this principal Act is up to 20 years imprisonment. I do not believe that that sort of legislation can ever be justified, certainly not in peace time. It ought to be very clear to any small '1' Liberal members of the Government that the use of that sort of legislation cannot be justified simply to provide a legal vehicle to carry the uranium mining policy. May I observe in passing that those State Premiers who recently have purported to show some concern about alleged States ' rights have been a bit tardy. If they had wanted to protest against the infringement of States' rights or, more importantly in my view, the gross and scandalous infringements of the rights of the individual and the denial of the most fundamental principles of AngloAustralian jurisprudence, they should have started protesting 25 years ago about the Atomic Energy Act. 
As I said at the beginning, I am not going to say very much about the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill. The major defects of the Bill are its enormous scope and the fact that it leaves far too much to regulation. Indeed, the Bill demonstrates very well just how ignorant we are of the whole question of nuclear safety and waste disposal. Proposed codes, so the Bill states, may be made public for security and debate. There is no compulsion on the Minister to make them public before they are finalised, and clearly the process of consultation with the States has broken down already. I think the current score is that four or five States have formally protested to the Government, not about this measure but about the legislation associated with the Government's uranium mining policy generally. Some people might say that there is a strong case for withdrawing the Bill and redrafting it. I think the opinions of the State Premiers are well known enough to make repetition of them unnecessary. 
The Opposition proposes to move several amendments to this Bill. In brief, the amendments are, firstly, to necessitate a public inquiry before the confirmation of the nuclear codes; secondly, to establish an environmental protection advisory council independent of government control; and, thirdly, to require that codes not be confirmed until after public inquiry and findings have been reported to the Minister. The fourth and fifth amendments are rather technical legal matters concerning enforcement and remedies and the safeguard of civil liberties. For the reasons I have stated with regard to the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill, it is quite clear that the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill should be rejected by the Senate, particularly in view of the fact that three and a half years ago Liberal and National Country Party senators rejected regulations made under the Act on the grounds that it was improper to use an Act rooted in the defence powers of the Commonwealth for commercial purposes, and the regulations were disallowed. Twenty-one of those senators still sit in this Parliament. If they are consistent they should all vote against this legislation. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. It refers to a question I asked on 15 March about the negligible benefits to Tasmania from the petroleum products freight subsidy scheme. In answering that question  Senator Durack  alleged: 
. there is a past agreement between the oil industry and the State Government under which the price of petrol was increased in Hobart to partially offset higher prices in rural areas. 
I ask: Is the Minister aware that at a meeting held in Hobart on 3 April between officials of the two governments, Federal and State, and oil industry representatives, the oil industry spokesman confirmed that no such agreement had existed for some years and, moreover, that any agreement which may have existed in the past had no bearing on present petrol prices? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that it has been stated recently that employees occupying low rental company housing, especially in mining towns, will have to pay additional tax? Can the Minister confirm or deny the strong rumour that farmers who live in rent free farm houses will have a notional rent added to their taxable income? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
Is the Australian Broadcasting Commission installing new automatic data processing computers; if so, what is the estimated cost of the computers. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of numerous ministerial references to an impending relaxation of the embargo on exporting fertile merino sheep and other genetic material, will the Minister put a statement of Government policy before both Houses of the Parliament before they rise for the winter recess so that the matter can be debated? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the estimated cost to Government revenue of tax avoidance arising from participation in trusts and use in primary producers' tax averaging concessions, as a consequence of the recent High Court judgment (Cridland v. Commissioner of Taxation), and the removal of the $ 16,000 limit on income which may be averaged, as reported in  The Taxpayer,  10 December 1977. 
I move: 
After the definition of 'international organisation', insert the following definition: member of the Council' or 'member' includes the Chairman:. 
This amendment is similar to the one which has just been defeated. Nevertheless, I move it. 
I move: 
After the definition of 'Australia', insert the following definitions: 

 Chairman' means the  Chairman  of the Council; 'Council' means the Environment Protection (Nuclear Activities) Advisory Council established by this Act;. 
I do not think there is any need to speak to this amendment. It is pursuant to the amendment which the Opposition proposes to move later to clause 7 (a) (i). The alterations detailed in this amendment are consequential to the major amendment. 

 - Mr Temporary Chairman, may I respond to  Senator Missen  's point? 
I move: 
At end of clause, add- 
Except that clauses 1 1 and 13 shall come into operation on a date to be fixed by proclamation; which date shall be after the Commonwealth and the States have further consulted and reached agreement on a uniform code. ' 
The proposed amendment has just been prepared and has, I trust, by now been circulated. The Opposition is highly dissatisfied with the way in which the Government has handled this legislation. Initially, the Government sought to impose upon the States a uniform code of practice relating to uranium mining. Upon being confronted by some opposition from the States, the Government has gone to water and has signified its intention of introducing amendments which I presume the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  will later be moving, which in effect give the States power to veto any code of practice which may be laid down by regulation pursuant to this Act. We find that proposal highly unsatisfactory. In effect, the Commonwealth has completely abdicated from its responsibility to impose standards of safety on the mining and milling of uranium. 
There are, we recognise, difficulties inherent in this sort of legislation where there is any doubt concerning the Federal Government's power to legislate, but the Opposition stands by its view that rather than carry the Bill in the form the Government now proposes, a further attempt should be made to apply a uniform code of practice throughout the country. There is little possibility of such a uniform code being achieved if the Bill is carried in the form foreshadowed by the Government. 
Following  Senator Cavanagh  's remarks, I should like to get a definitive answer on this question from the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  Amendment No. 5 which has been circulated by the Government states that regulations made in regard to a code of practice shall not operate in a State unless the Governor of the State has requested the Governor-General to make regulations for carrying out or giving effect to, or for securing the observance of, that code of practice in the State. Does the Minister agree that that clause quite clearly gives any of the States power to veto regulations which comprise the code of practice which the Commonwealth Government may issue at some time in the future? 
A few minutes ago the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  referred to the relevance of some of the matters the Opposition is bringing up in this discussion. I speak merely to a point of procedure. As I understand it, the only opportunity which the Committee will have to defer the proclamation provisions in clause 1 1 and clause 13 is by accepting the amendment which I have moved. Therefore it is necessary to discuss some of the matters covered in clause 1 1 and clause 13 which are in fact relevant to the amendment which has been moved. I do not want to broaden the debate any more than is necessary but in particular I ask the Minister whether he agrees with my interpretation of the Government's proposed amendment No. 5 which has been circulated and which relates to clause 1 1 of the Bill. Does the Minister agree that if the Government's proposed amendment is accepted it will effectively give the States power to veto any regulations which the Commonwealth may issue on a nuclear code of practice? 
I am speaking on the amendment which seeks to defer the proclamation of clauses 1 1 and 13 of the Bill. This is the only opportunity which the Committee will have to defer the proclamation of those clauses. Later in the Committee stage it could defeat those clauses. I think that is unlikely. It could defeat the whole Bill. But this is the only opportunity to defer the proclamation of those two clauses. Therefore, I make these points.  Senator Carrick  has not responded to my invitation to state definitely whether the Government's fifth proposed amendment effectively gives all the States power to veto any Commonwealth regulation made pursuant to this matter. In the absence of his reply I assert that it does give the States that power of veto. 
In his first speech on this amendment,  Senator Carrick  read out a lengthy letter or telegram from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  which stated the objective of the Commonwealth Government to have complementary legislation to establish and enforce a uniform code of practice. I do not think that anyone disagrees with that objective. What has been placed before us in this Bill and in the amendments which the Government proposes is that a code of practice which has not yet been drawn up will be subsequently enacted through regulation- of course the regulations have not been made- and it can be vetoed by any of the six States. We have travelled a long way from the objective of complementary legislation to enforce effectively a uniform code of practice to the actual achievement. This is an unstated code of practice by regulations which have not been drawn up and which can be vetoed. That is a completely absurd position. This amendment should be carried. 
I move: 
Leave out clause 7, insert the following clause: 7.(l)The Minister- 
shall cause to be furnished to the appropriate Minister of each State, and to the Minister for the time being administering the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 and, on and after1 July 1978, to the appropriate Minister for the Northern Territory and shall cause to be published in the  Gazette- 
proposed codes of practice for regulating or controlling nuclear activities in Australia (including codes of practice to replace existing codes of practice approved by orders under sub-section 8(1)); and 
proposed variations of codes of practice, being codes of practice approved by order under subsection 8(1); and 
shall ensure that each Minister to whom a proposed code of practice is furnished under paragraph (a), or a person nominated by the Minister concerned, is afforded an opportunity to consult with the Minister or another Minister, or with a person nominated by the Minister, in relation to the proposed code of practice. 
The Minister for the time being administering the Enviroment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 shall, within 1 month of being furnished with a proposed code of practice, make a direction under sub-section 11(1) of the Act that an inquiry be conducted in respect of the environmental aspects (if any) of the proposed code, and the provisions of the Act shall apply to that inquiry. 
Where the Minister for the time being administering the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 is furnished with a proposed code of practice or a proposed variation of a code and an inquiry is currently in progress under the Act in respect of a proposed code or variation, the Minister may direct that the first-mentioned proposed code or variation be referred to the Commission conducting the inquiry, and the provisions of the Act shall apply as if that Commission was appointed to consider that proposed code or variation. '. 
This is the major amendment proposed by the Opposition, with the possible exception of the insertion of new section 4A which will later be moved by  Senator Button.  The Government's amendments to this clause, just adopted, were not opposed by the Opposition. We regard them as representing a marginal improvement, but they do not remove the major objections that we had to this clause. These arose from a common root, that we do not believe that there are adequate provisions either for specialist advisers on the conduct of uranium mining and milling, or for adequate public disclosure of the conditions which may be laid down and the practices which are being followed. 
In particular- and this has not been affected by the Government's amendments just passedclause 7A states that the Minister may, if he thinks it desirable to do so, make available, or arrange to be made available, for public comment the proposed codes of practice and so on. So it is clear that the Minister is under no obligation to make the proposed codes of practice available to the public. We do not believe that this is satisfactory. Our specific amendment is, of course, to delete clause 7 as printed, and now amended, and to substitute our proposed new clauses 7 and 7A. The major changes are precisely these: In the early part, which largely reproduces the clause as printed in the Bill, we seek to add a provision naming the Minister administering the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act, so that he too will become directly involved. More importantly we require that a public inquiry be held before the codes are confirmed. We propose to establish an Environment Protection Advisory Council which is to be independent of government control, it being required further that no codes will be confirmed until there has been a public inquiry and the findings of that inquiry have been reported to the Minister. Most importantly, it is made mandatory that the Minister disclose all these proceedings publicly. 
I move: 
After clause 7, insert the following new clauses: 7a. There shall be an Environment Protection (Nuclear Activities) Advisory Council.  7b. The functions of the Council are- 
to examine, and make recommendations to the Minister with respect to- 
proposed codes of practice for regulating and controlling nuclear activities in Australia (including codes to replace existing codes of practice approved by orders under sub-section 17(1); and 
proposed variations of codes of practice, being codes of practice approved by orders under subsection 17(1); 
to keep under review codes of practice approved by orders under sub-section 1 7 ( 1 ) and to propose to the Minister any variations of those codes that the Council considers desirable; and 
to advise the Minister with respect to any other matters relating to the protection of the health and safety of the people of Australia, and the environment, from possible harmful effects associated with nuclear activities in Australia. 7c. ( 1 ) The Council shall consist of- 
a Chairman; and 
not less than 1 1 , or more than 14, other members. 
The members of the Council shall be appointed by the Minister and shall hold office on a part-time basis. 
A member shall be appointed for such period, not exceeding 3 years, as is specified in the instrument of his appointment, but is eligible for re-appointment. 
A member holds office on such terms and conditions (if any) in respect of matters not provided for by this Act as are determined by the Minister. 
No more than one quarter of the members of the Council shall have a direct or indirect pecuniary or professional interest in the promotion of nuclear activities. 
Where a member of the Council has or acquires any direct or indirect pecuniary or professional interest in the promotion of nuclear activities, the member shall, to the best of his knowledge, disclose that interest to the Minister. 
The Minister shall cause a statement containing details of each interest disclosed to him under sub-section (6) to be published in the Gazette. 7o. ( I ) The Council shall furnish to the Minister such reports on matters coming within its functions as the Council considers desirable or as the Minister directs. 
The Minister shall cause a copy of any report furnished to him under sub-section ( I ) to be laid before each House of the Parliament within I 5 sitting days of that House after receipt of the report by the Minister. 7e. ( 1 ) A member of the Council shall be paid such remuneration as is determined by the Remuneration Tribunal, but if no determination of that remuneration by the Tribunal is in operation, he shall be paid such remuneration as is prescribed. 
A member shall be paid such allowances as are prescribed. 
This section has effect subject to the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973. 7f. A member of the Council may resign his office by writing under his hand delivered to the Minister. 7g. ( 1 ) The Minister may terminate the appointment of a member of the Council by reason of the misbehaviour, or the physical or mental incapacity, of the member. 
If a member of the Council is absent, except with the permission of the Minister, from 3 consecutive meetings of the Council, the Minister shall terminate his appointment. 7h. (1) The Council shall hold such meetings as are necessary for the performance of its functions. 
Subject to this section, meetings of the Council shall be held at such times and places as the Council from time to time determines. 
The Minister or the  Chairman  may at any time convene a meeting of the Council. 
At a meeting of the Council, a majority of the members of the Council constitutes a quorum. 
The  Chairman  shall preside at all meetings of the Council at which he is present. 
If the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the Council, the members present shall elect one of their number to preside at the meeting. 
Questions arising at a meeting of the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the members present and voting. 
The person presiding at a meeting of the Council has a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of votes, also has a casting vote. 
The Council shall cause a record of its proceedings to be kept. 
10) The Council may invite a person to attend a meeting of the Council for the purpose of advising or informing the Council on any matter. 71.(1) The Council may, with the approval of the Minister, appoint a committee to furnish advice to the Council in relation to a matter specified in the request. 
A committee appointed under sub-section (1) shall consist of such persons, whether members of the Council or not, as the Council, with the approval of the Minister, determines. 
Subject to the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973, a member of a committee appointed under sub-section ( I ) shall be paid such fees and allowances as are prescribed, and shall hold office on such other terms and conditions as the Council, with the approval of the Minister, determines. '. 
This amendment seeks to establish the Advisory Council, the functions of the Advisory Council, its membership and other matters relating to it. 
The Opposition opposes the amendment just moved. The matter has been fairly well canvassed. I suggest that it is a significant misrepresentation to say that this just provides for additional consultation. What it clearly provides is that the code of practice, when drawn up and implemented by legislation, may be vetoed by any State government. We did not regard the Bill, in its initial form as satisfactory. In this form it is highly objectionable and would torpedo any chance there might have been of obtaining uniform codes of practice. The Opposition strongly opposes the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Senator Carrick's)  be agreed to. 
-I move: 
After sub-clause ( 1 ), insert the following new sub-clause: ( 1a) The Governor-General shall not make an order under paragraph ( 1 ) (a) before the time at which the public inquiry to be held under sub-section 7 (2) or 7 (3) has reported its findings to the Minister for the time being  administering the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974.'. 
The purpose of this amendment is consistent with the Opposition's unsuccessful move-- 
Consideration interrupted. 
I feel that this matter must be clarified. Is the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  forecasting the introduction of subsequent legislation if the States or any State fails to request what is considered to be a satisfactory code of practice? Is he forecasting further legislation being introduced by the Commonwealth Government under the commerce power, the defence power, or one of the other heads of power to which he has referred? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether imports of frozen packaged peas have increased in recent months. Are imports from New Zealand being kept within the free limits permitted by the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement? Is this limit a maximum of 2 per cent of Australian consumption? Do increased imports justify substantial reductions in either the volume or price of contracts being let to growers by processors such as the General Jones and the Smith companies? 
Prior to the adjournment of the Senate on Friday last, I moved an amendment. On reflection and closer examination, the amendment is in fact redundant because it is consequential to an earlier amendment unsuccessfully moved by the Opposition. Although I have formally moved the amendment, the Opposition will not be pressing this amendment to a division. The purposes of the amendment were, firstly, to require that before the GovernorGeneral made any orders pertaining to the mining or milling of uranium there would have to be a public inquiry and, secondly that the findings of that public inquiry would have to be reported to the Minister administering the Environment Protection Act of 1974 prior to any such order becoming operative. That was the purpose behind this amendment, which was consequential upon the much wider amendment unsuccessfully moved by the Opposition on Friday. 
The Opposition will oppose this clause and oppose it very strongly. We will press it to a division of the Committee. There was considerable discussion about this matter at the beginning of the Committee debate. Essentially, this clause grants to any State the power to veto within that State codes of practice that the Commonwealth may lay down for the mining or milling of uranium. The Government, having failed initially either to consult the States or to secure a uniform code of practice; having been rebuked by, among others,  Sir Charles  Court for attempting to legislate in a pre-emptive way; having failed to secure agreement; having abandoned its attempt to legislate in a pre-emptive way, is now proposing to abdicate completely from its responsibilities in this area. In effect, the Government is saying that there will be no codes relating to the mining or milling of uranium, no minimum standards of safety or environmental protection, unless the State governments impose them or unless the State governments agree. 
There will still be provision for the Commonwealth to issue orders pertaining to these matters, but effectively, although this is not the way the clause is worded, all the State governments will be granted the power of veto. The Opposition believes this is an unacceptable abdication by the Government of responsibility for this most important matter. 
I want to reply briefly to the first contribution, and not the one he has just finished, which  Senator Carrick  made in the consideration of this amendment. On the question what the clause means or what the words mean, I sought unequivocal clarification from  Senator Carrick  on this matter last Friday, and I might add that I was unsuccessful. The proposed new clause reads: 
Regulations shall not be made in pursuance of sub-section (1)or(2)-- 
That is, codes of practice-  for carrying out or giving effect to, or for securing the observance of, a code of practice in a State - 
This is the crucial part-  unless the Governor of the State has requested the Governor-General to make regulations for carrying out or giving effect to . . . 
Suerly if words mean anything, that means that there will be no code of practice which is not requested by a State Governor, for which we can read 'a State government'. If that does not mean- I invite  Senator Carrick  to correct me but I fail to see how it can possibly mean anything else- that it grants the States effectively the power of veto, I do not know what it means. It grants them the power of veto in advance, so to speak, in that no Commonwealth regulations will be made concerning codes of practice unless they have been requested by the States. 

 Senator Carrick made a couple of other comments which interested me in his first contribution in the consideration of this amendment. If I heard him correctly, he said that the Australian Government has other reserve powers to persuade the States as to the types of codes of practice or the codes of practice they should request. I assume- if I am wrong, again I hope  Senator Carrick  will correct me- that one of those reserve powers he had in mind was the power of the Commonwealth to grant or to withhold an export licence. If he envisages a situation in which that Commonwealth power will be exercised to persuade- I think 'coerce' would be a more appropriate verb to use in the circumstancesa State into requesting the codes of practice which the Commonwealth wants, then I suggest that it would be much better if the legislation dealing with the codes of practice covered that situation instead of using the reserve powers, or what  Senator Carrick  called the reserve powers, of the Commonwealth over export trade, to discipline the States. 
But apart from that, on the question of whether the codes of practice ought to be more clearly written into the Act which purports to establish codes of practice, at least while the present Government or a government of similar persuasion is in office, one must have serious doubts as to whether that Government in fact would use those reserve powers over exports or whatever it was that  Senator Carrick  had in mind. We have seen in the last few weeks that the Commonwealth Government has not only a constitutional right, as it has in relation to the granting of export licences, but also a constitutional duty and obligation to make laws with respect to Aborigines. We have seen that whenever a couple of Ministers in the Queensland Government shake their fists at the Fraser 
Government in Canberra, the Fraser Government goes to water. Given that very recent precedent, one would not have to be unduly suspicious to fear that if the Queensland Government does something similar with respect to codes of practice for the mining and milling of uranium, this Government will likewise go to water. We maintain our very strong opposition to the proposed amendment. 

 - Senator Carrick has thrown this question at the Opposition: Why do we want consultation? One of the reasons why we want consultation is that before this Bill is enacted we would like to know something about what it means. We would like to know what code of practice is likely to be implemented. We tried to obtain consultation between the Commonwealth and the States so that the Commonwealth Government could put before this Parliament firm propositions for a particular code of practice. Given that the Government has failed to do that, it is now asking the Committee to pass a Bill which, in effect, gives the Government an open cheque. We do not know what will be done. Whatever limited knowledge or intuitive grasp we have of these matters is subject to the whim and the caprice of any one of six State governments vetoing in advance any code of practice which the Commonwealth Government might want to implement by regulation anyway. 
I return to another point which I have raised before.  Senator Carrick  did not respond to it at that time. He has mentioned again the reserve power which the Commonwealth Government can use to persuade- I think that was his euphemism but I think that 'coerce' would be a more appropriate word- the State governments to apply a code of practice which would meet with the approval of the Commonwealth Government. I ask specifically: What reserve powers does the Minister have in mind? Does he envisage withholding the granting of export licences to a State that does not request what is considered to be a satisfactory code of practice? If not, what does he have in mind? 
The Opposition is opposed to the amendment, but in view of what happened during the earlier division, it does not propose to call a division on this amendment. It is very similar to the Government's fifth amendment in that it effectively declares that the Commonwealth Government will abdicate its responsibility unless it is requested by a State Government to assume responsibility. It is perhaps marginally less objectionable in that the respective purposes of clauses 11 and 13 are somewhat different. Clause 1 1 seeks to provide for the imposition of a code of practice by regulation, although as amended by the Government. It now includes the power of veto for any State. 
Clause 13 seeks to deal in a very vague way with a situation arising from nuclear activity. It is a particularly ill-defined clause. It provides for what is tantamount to a declaration of martial law by the Federal authorities. The amendment which the Government now proposes in a sense waters down the Commonwealth's power to declare martial law. The Opposition still does not like the amendment. We believe that it is vulnerable to the same criticisms that apply to the previous amendment, that is, that it constitutes an abdication of responsibility by the Federal Government in an area where it should have responsibility. The Opposition is not happy with the initial clause either. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause (1), leave out paragraphs (a), (b). (d), (g) and (h) 
The reason for the Opposition's amendment, which seeks the deletion of those paragraphs of sub-clause (1), would be apparent to anyone who reads the clause. Sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause 1 4 states in part: 
The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act ... for carrying out or giving effect to this Act, and in particular- 
prohibiting the doing of an act or thing absolutely; 
We have no idea what an act or a thing is. It appears to the Opposition that this is a completely open-ended clause which gives the Governor-General- the Government- power to impose any restrictions whatsoever on the behaviour of individuals. Paragraph (b), which the Opposition also seeks to delete, is related to paragraph (a). Clause 14 further states: 
The Governor-General may make regulations . . . 
making provision for and in relation to ensuring the confidentiality of information obtained in or in connextion with carrying out or giving effect to, or securing the observance of, a code of practice approved by . . . 
That appears to draw an even heavier veil of secrecy over the operation of the nuclear mining and milling industry. The Opposition believes that it is obnoxious on those grounds. It is seriously inconsistent that within the one clause the Government proclaims its intention to impose any restrictions whatsoever on individuals and simultaneously provides for the confidentiality of information obtained in connection with the observance of a nuclear code. For similar reasons we object very strongly to paragraphs (g) and (h) of sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause 1 4. 
The Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry will remember the dairy industry policy which was announced last week and which sought to limit to 96,000 tonnes the underwriting commitment on butter and associated products by allocating a proportionate quota to all dairy factories. I ask: Will the quota allocation to factories be affected by the Victorian Government's refusal to participate in the scheme as reported in this morning's Press? If the Victorian Government will not cooperate, what legal mechanism can the Commonwealth use to apply quotas to factories in the States? 
I rise to speak briefly to the motion for the third reading of the International Sugar Agreement Bill. I do so mainly to respond to the comments made by  Senator Withers  10 or 15 minutes ago in which he criticised the Opposition's amendment on a couple of quite specific grounds. He criticised the amendment on the grounds that it said that the loans available from the stock financing fund established under article 53 of the schedule to the Bill may not cover the entire cost of holding stocks of sugar. I remind  Senator Withers  that that amendment was drafted and moved about one month ago. Some more information has since come to hand and we need no longer be uncertain about whether those stock financing provisions will in fact cover the financial cost of stock holdings. We now know that they will not because the Queensland Government and/or the Queensland sugar industry with a government guarantee has made arrangements to borrow overseas $50m to pay for those stockholding provisions. So if the levies envisaged under the International Sugar Agreement were to provide the capital necessary to hold the stocks envisaged, why is the Queensland Government borrowing money overseas to do it?  Senator Withers  can criticise the amendment on the ground that it is obsolete but he certainly cannot validly criticise it on the ground that it is irrelevant or wrong. On the same point, and again since this amendment was drafted, the  Australian Financial Review  of 1 1 May last carried a report headed 'US Congress delay disrupts sugar pact'. It refers to the possibility of the United States Congress not ratifying the Agreement and, in particular, to the possibility of the Congress not approving of the contributions to this stockholding fund. The article states: 
The fund is designed to buy up to 2.5m metric tons of sugar. 
Contributions to this fund are to be made through a proposed levy collected in consuming countries on every ton of sugar imported. 
Congressional delay in ratification means that no legislation can be passed to authorise US Customs and Excise to collect the levies from importers. 
It goes on to say that without the contributions of the United States the International Sugar Organisation will have great difficulty in getting the fund off the ground. The article then refers to the possibility of the United States having a legitimate legal excuse for withdrawing entirely from the levy and stockholdings provisions contained in the Agreement. So, far from that point being trivial or irrelevant, it has assumed much greater significance since our amendment was originally moved about a month ago. 
I wish to comment now on a couple of other points that  Senator Withers  raised. He said that he was not aware of any reference by any Minister to anything other than a trigger price in the Agreement. He claimed therefore that the amendment moved by the Opposition which condemned the Minister for Trade and Resources and  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  for misrepresenting the Agreement's pricing provisions and their likely impact on Australia's export prices was unwarranted because no such misrepresentation had taken place and he was not aware of any Minister referring to anything other than a trigger price. If he had read my speech made at the second reading stage of the debate or if he had read the newspapers he may have been aware of references to other than trigger prices. To refresh his memory I will quote a few of them. A Press release of 6 October 1977 under the name of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and referring to  Mr Anthony's  return from Geneva following a breakthrough in the conclusion of the new International Sugar Agreement reads: 
The agreed price range of 1 1 to 2 1 cents, - 
It referred to the agreed price range and said nothing about trigger prices-  equivalent to SA220 to $A420 a tonne, will mean a lift in returns to the world sugar industry of the order of $2,000m when measured against the prevailing world price which has been as low as 98 Pounds Sterling ( about $A 1 55 ). 
The Minister for Primary Industry said that there would be a lift in returns of $2,000m as a result of this agreed price range, as distinct from what he depicted as a catastrophic price of SA155 a tonne. 
That is the price level which applies now, around $155 a tonne. Six months after that statement was made what the Minister then identified as a catastrophic price is the price which is prevailing, notwithstanding this Agreement. In a statement in the House of Representatives on 13 October 1977  Mr Anthony  said: 
The Agreement establishes a price range at 1 1 to 2 1 cents United States per lb. . . Provision is made for review of the price range and upward adjustment when this is considered appropriate. 
In a statement on 26 October 1 977  Mr Anthony  returned to the same theme. He released a Press statement which read: 
The first breakthrough had been the negotiation in Geneva of an International Sugar Agreement. This Agreement promised stability in the face of an almost certain world sugar recession. It also established a price range of 1 1 to 2 lc per lb- 
In Townsville in an election campaign the Minister for Trade and Resources became even bolder and he said, as reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald ofl  December: 
. the international sugar agreement has provided the Australian sugar industry with stability. . . Provided we keep reasonable limitations on what is produced, the big things really worrying the Australian sugar industry are now behind us. 
The article then stated: 
From then - 
That is the middle ofl 978-  when the sugar agreement started to operate, the market would tighten and sugar prices could be expected to rise. 
I think I have quoted enough from  Mr Anthony  and  Mr Sinclair  to demonstrate that they have consistently over a long period misled the industry as to the limited protection for Australian sugar growers provided by this Agreement. They have consistently misrepresented this Agreement as something which establishes a price range. It does no such thing. There is nothing in this Agreement to prevent the price of sugar from falling to zero provided that certain quantitative restrictions on the amount of sugar exported are observed by the signatories to the Agreement. Australian sugar producers are caught in a twoway squeeze. There will be a 1 5 per cent quantitative reduction in the amount of sugar they are able to market and there will be subtantially lower prices. 
Largely in anticipation of this result, there has been sustained pressure for a substantial increase in the domestic price of sugar. On 10 April the Minister for Primary Industry wrote to  Dr Everingham  saying that new information had come to light and a decision would be announced shortly. I understand according to yesterday's newspapers that some such decision has been announced and the Government has approved a price increase of $30 a tonne. That falls far short of the $80 a tonne the Australian industry was seeking to compensate it for its market losses. I think that is indicative of the negligible effectiveness of the present Minister for Primary Industry. He has taken three months to get any decision at all out of the Government on this issue when in that same period the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has issued no fewer than 1 5 Press statements on agricultural matters. 
This can be interpreted only as a tacit vote of no confidence in his own Minister for Primary Industry when he has to intervene in agricultural matters that often. But most importantly, the present Minister for Primary Industry in his failure to secure what the sugar industry is looking for has demonstrated that he has no political clout whatsoever compared with such influential figures and fellow members of the Melbourne Club with  Mr Fraser  as  Sir Rupert  Clarke, the  chairman  of Cadbury Schweppes Australia Ltd. Compared to people such as that  Mr Sinclair  clearly carries absolutely no political clout within the Government. 
The Estate Duty Assessment Amendment Bill, the Estate Duty Amendment Bill, the Gift Duty Assessment Amendment Bill and the Gift Duty Amendment Bill are probably the most important Bills which have come into the Parliament this session. I want to speak to this legislation because I want to place on record my view of it. The introduction of this legislation is possibly the most scandalous act the Fraser Government has performed in two and a half years of political perfidy. A fundamental principle is involved here. My view, which I want placed on the record, is that inheritance taxes are as fundamental to a society which has any respect for social justice as is a progressive income tax. I want to make two points about this legislation and about what the Government has forecast will follow. The Government will forgo revenue of $80m. It is always popular with some sections of the community to forgo a tax or to offer an electoral bribe. Let us be very clear about this. In forgoing this revenue of $80m from a tiny minority of people who inherit windfall gains somebody else will pay the bill. An amount of $80m will be obtained from someone else because the Fraser Government is going to abolish inheritance taxes. From where will it be obtained? 
I would impose some tax on capital. That is the reason I am supporting the Opposition amendment and opposing this scandalous piece of legislation. From where does the Fraser Government propose to obtain this $80m which it is going to forgo? For the saving of a miserly $24m, the Government announced this week that it will disrupt the entire health policy of the nation. As a result of the passage of this legislation the Government will forgo more than three times the amount of money which it will save through its health policy changes. 
Does the Government intend to cut the family allowances, about which it has boasted so much over the past two and a half years, or does it intend to cheat the unemployed again, as it did in the previous Budget. In a shonky move the Government delayed for one week the payment of the unemployment benefit to the rapidly expanding army of people who were unemployed as a result of this Government's economic policies. The Government saved $27m last year by cheating the unemployed out of one week 's unemployment benefit. Does it propose this year to pay for its bribe to the wealthier sections of the community by cheating the unemployed out of three weeks ' unemployment benefit? I know that those questions will not be answered. The Government will boast about its handout to the rich and to the descendants of the rich through this legislation. It will not tell anyone who will foot the bill. 
I understood  Senator Lewis,  who preceded me in this debate, to say in criticising  Senator Ryan  that all remissions of taxation were popular with the public. In a mindless, knee-jerk sort of way that is probably true; they are popular until the public actually begins to realise the implications of remissions of taxation.  Senator Lewis  went further to say that money to fund governments should not come from the rich. Given that governments must have money, if that money does not come from the rich there is only one other place from which it can come, namely, from those people who are not rich. So I would like it to be clearly noted in the Senate tonight that what  Senator Lewis  is advocating is that the rich should be forgiven taxation and that the gap should be made up by the not so rich and/or the poor. 

 Senator Scott said that no wealth is accumulated unless it is taxed. To say the least, that is a naive proposition. About six months ago there was a good deal of publicity about family trusts which were established by senior Ministers of the Government for the explicit purpose of evading tax on incomes. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was tackled about this on 23 November. A few days afterwards he was forced to sack his  Deputy  Leader. He was asked: 
Do your private family companies, family trusts have the effect of lowering the rate of tax that you pay? 
The Prime Minister replied: 
Family trusts are designed to help keep the family's assets together, yes. 
So, contrary to  Senator Scott's  naive assertion, income largely escapes taxation if one does as most of the senior Ministers of this Government seem to do and establishes a family trust for the explicit purpose of evading tax on income. At the same time, last November, the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  was also challenged publicly on his family trusts. He was asked whether the trust had been set up to avoid taxation. He replied: 
Because you have a family operation, because you want to keep it in the family name, because you do not want to be forced to liquidate your property when you pass on and not enable your children to take it, then you try to make other arrangements. 
That is not the most lucid answer which  Mr Anthony  conceivably could have given by any means. But what he is claiming, if one studies the answer very carefully, is that his family trust was established not for the purpose of evading tax on income, but for evading probate duty. If that is true, now that this Government is proceeding to abolish probate duty, I assume that we can expect the rapid dissolution of the Anthony family trust if, in fact,  Mr Anthony  was telling the truth at that time. More importantly, not only is tax on acquired money sometimes evaded, as it is by most of the senior Ministers in the Government; but also, sometimes the wealth is not even acquired honestly. For example, in Melbourne in the 1890s vast fortunes were acquired by defrauding depositors in so-called land banks established by, among others, the Baillieu and Fraser families. Today, the descendants of those who acquired, by fraudulent means, these vast fortunes sit in Parliament and vote for legislation to permit the unimpeded inter-generational transfers of those ill-gotten gains. 

 Senator Scott, in response to an interjection, acknowledged that it was highly significant that the first move at a government level in Australia to abolish taxes on inherited wealth was made in Queensland. I point out that that is what this legislation proposes to do. It proposes to abolish tax on inherited wealth. The Government will continue to tax income that is earned but it will abolish any form of taxation on income or wealth that is acquired by windfall means. As I say,  Senator Scott  acknowledged that it was highly significant that this move had originated in Queensland. I entirely agree with him. I shall read into the  Hansard  record an extract from the  Four Corners  television program of 6 November 1 977. It is from an interview with the Premier of Queensland who was the prime mover in this matter. From this transcript we can gain a fairly accurate understanding of the ethical standards which are held by people who favour and who initiated this sort of legislation. Paul Lyneham, the Australian Broadcasting Commission reporter, said: 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen 's enthusiasm for mineral development in Queensland goes far beyond mere political rhetoric, for the Premier himself has a personal interest in the development of the State's coal reserve. 
That was an accusation of vested interest.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  in his customary lucid style, replied: 
No I think you can- you  shouldn't  say a thing like that. I have no coal interests, or my family have no coal interests. I don't know what makes you say- you ought to withdraw that. I wouldn't threaten you with a writ but you shouldn't say it because it is not true. 
Even in  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  's tortured English, it is perfectly clear that he unequivocally denied that he or his family had any interest in coal mining. Paul Lyneham then replied: 
These official documents from the Brisbane Stock Exchange and the Companies Office show that a company called Oilmin has tendered to the Queensland Government to supply coal to a State electricity commission power house in be commissioned in the mid-1980s. The list of shareholders of Oilmin shows that Johannes Bjelke-Petersen holds 2 1 ,000 shares. However the largest single shareholder in Oilmin is another company called Artesian Basin Oil, which owns one million shares in Oilmin. This document shows that one of the directors of Artesian Basin Oil is Florence Isobel Bjelke-Petersen, the Premier's wife. Artesian Basin Oil has 24,804 shares on issue. Of these Johannes Bjelke-Petersen owns 12,154, roughly 49 per cent. This gives the Premier a small but valuable interest in Oilmin, the company that's tendering to supply coal to the Queensland Government. 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen replied: 
Well the whole situation in relation to what one might hold, or my family might hold, has got nothing to do with the whole subject that you may wish to debate. You'd like to revive it again or some of these things that was on much on the news when I became Premier, when attempts were made. 
I am not sure what those last couple of lines are supposed to mean but that is what he said. However, it came through very clearly that  Mr BjelkePetersen  issued an unequivocal denial that he or his family had interests in companies supplying coal to the Government of Queensland. He was then confronted with the irrefutable evidence that that was not true. I agree with Senate Scott that it is highly significant that the idea for this legislation which the Fraser Government has introduced and which I presume will pass through this Parliament, originated in Queensland. This Government seeks to emulate the ethical standards established by the Government of Queensland. It has been more successful in doing that than it has been at many other things. 
I want to deal with a couple of other points. Much has been made of the effect of inheritance taxes on family farms. I know that occasionally severe liquidity squeezes are imposed upon farming properties because of the death of the principal owner. But I want to make one point which those honourable senators who have spoken in favour of this Bill have not made. If it is held to be a sacred principle or an inviolable principle that farming properties should pass from generation to generation within the one family- I do not necessarily hold that view- the abolition of inheritance tax does not go nearly far enough to ensure that. It is also necessary to enact a law of primogeniture so that the property passes to the eldest heir or the eldest descendant. A far more common cause of a liquidity squeeze in a farming business after the death of a major owner is not the existence of inheritance taxes but the fact that in the will the property may be distributed between several descendants. That is a more common cause of a severe liquidity squeeze than the imposition of inheritance tax per se. If the Government is serious about this matter- I broaden my remarks to include the State governments as well- an obligation exists to enact laws providing for primogeniture. 
In those situations where inheritance taxes impose a liquidity squeeze on a family farm or, I suppose, on many family businesses, I think that significant improvements can be made to the position. In fact, they already exist. Time is given to pay. Where problems arise- this can apply also outside agriculture- because the valuation at the time of death may be unrealistic in comparison to the market value at the time the probate is actually payable, I think it is quite reasonable to give to the people who inherited the estate the option of accepting the monetary value of the estate and transferring the property to the authorities or alternatively of taking the property and paying probate on the assessed value. We hear a great deal of rhetoric from members of the Liberal Party of Australia about incentives. I am aware that my colleague,  Senator Button,  has dealt with this matter already. But I think that this is a very important point which bears repeating. The rhetoric of the Liberal Party runs along these lines: It is terribly important that people be rewarded for personal effort expended. Therefore, remuneration has to be related to effort and so on. Whatever merit that proposition may have, this legislation contradicts it. This legislation provides that if a person is born of rich parents, he will inherit that wealth whether or not he makes any effort. It seems to me that the only incentive that that can possibly provide is for the unborn to choose rich parents. That is the absurd proposition which is being put to the Senate. 
The factual position with regard to the current assessment of inheritance taxes is that only 12 per cent of all estates in the most recent financial year, 1976-77, had any Commonwealth duty assessed on them. What we are saying is that 88 per cent of estates do not pay the duty but the Commonwealth is going to abolish the impost for the other 12 per cent who represent not entirely the most wealthy- I will return to that point later- but the more wealthy people in our community. 
Moreover, the average duty payable on 80 per cent of the assessed estates was only $ 1 3,036. So, approximately  2Vi  per cent of all estates was dutiable in excess of the $13,036 average. We can see from that fact the highly regressive nature of this legislation. This tax was one which was paid only by the relatively wealthy. I think it is important to note also that for an estate passing to a spouse the first $90,000 is exempt from Commonwealth inheritance taxes. The estates of people aged over 50 contribute over 95 per cent of the duty paid; there are very few dependent children involved. It is a tax which currently hits only the relatively wealthy. There are very substantial exemptions applying for estates which are transferred to the spouse and somewhat fewer exemptions applying to estates which are transferred directly to the children. 
One of the arguments which could have been used by people who were supporting this Bill and which have not been used- one of the few arguments and possibly the only valid argument against inheritance taxes- is the degree to which the taxes are evaded. It is certainly true that the beneficiaries of many very wealthy estates are advantaged by the affairs of those estates being arranged specifically to evade inheritance tax completely. That, I suggest, is not an argument against inheritance tax per se; it is an argument for tightening up the existing law. It is well known- indeed, the political events of the last six or seven months have given a fair bit of publicity to this fact- that taxes on income are widely avoided or evaded. There is a distinction between the two terms which I think is scarcely an important distinction but which does have some technical meaning. Tax which is avoided is that which is dodged within the law; tax which is evaded is that which is dodged outside the law. I think the term 'avoidance' is somewhat euphemistic; however these are terms which are commonly used and understood by people who take an interest in these matters. It is well known that tax is widely avoided and widely evaded. 
One of the important checks currently available to the Taxation Department on the degree of tax avoidance and evasion is the requirement on death for the submission for probate of estates. I instance the examples of estates which are very large or from which recent transfers above the amount of money that can be accounted for from the income which has been declared have been made for gift duty purposes and so on. A very important check for the Taxation Office on tax avoidance and tax evasion is provided in this way but this Government now proposes to abolish that process. 
I think that this legislation, perhaps more than anything else that we have seen in this session or indeed in the last two and a half years, epitomises the values of the Fraser Government. This legislation is the result of one of the very few election promises that this Government has kept. The highest priority has been given to a measure which permits the unimpeded inheritance, the inter-generational transfer of wealth, forever and ever. Somebody else will pay for this piece of mock generosity by the Fraser Government to the rich. Surely this must be the only country in the world with anything resembling a democratic Government which in this particular measure and with the tax changes which became operative from 1 February is actually distributing the burden of taxation to the disadvantage of lower income earners. Taxation in this country under this Government is becoming more and more regressive. I think that is a scandoulous situation of which any Australian with any sense of social justice should be thoroughly ashamed and to which any such Australian should be voicing his or her opposition. I support the amendment moved by my colleague,  Senator Wheeldon,  that these Bills should be withdrawn until such time as an alternative form of tax on capital is introduced.  (Quorum formed). 
-Did the Minister for Administrative Services either directly or through  Mr Pearson  or any other officer approach the Distribution Commissioners concerning the 1 977 redistribution in Western Australia, particularly the division of Kalgoorlie? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
With respect, my question has not been answered. I asked the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in her capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  whether the Government still believes, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has stated ad nauseum, that an increase in the deficit inevitably means higher inflation in a future period than we have had in the past. With respect, whether inflation in the immediate past has gone up or down has nothing to do with that question, the Prime Minister's previous statements on it or the present belief of the Treasurer. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has acknowledged that the deficit this year will be substantially higher than the Government projected. In her capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  I ask her whether it is still the Government's belief, as stated ad nauseum by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  that an increased deficit inevitably means higher inflation in the succeeding period. 
I take the opportunity, on the first reading of this money Bill, to speak on the subject of the ban on the export of genetic merino material to countries other than New Zealand. In several references in recent Press statements and speeches, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has indicated clearly the Government's intention to relax or remove this ban in the near future. On two occasions I have endeavoured to obtain through the Minister representing the 
Minister for Primary Industry a statement of Government policy on this matter so that it could be laid before both Houses of Parliament before they rise for the winter recess and debated. I have received no positive response to that request, so I assume that the Government has no intention of placing a paper or a policy statement before the Parliament. I assume also that some time before the Parliament resumes in midAugust the Government will have proceeded with its policy on this matter. It seems likely that the Government will reactivate or resurrect the policy of a previous Liberal-Country Party Government from 1969 to 1972, which permitted the export of up to 300 merino rams a year to countries other than New Zealand but which maintained the ban on all other genetic material. I will return to that later. 
For reasons which will become apparent as I continue my speech, the issue, in my judgment, is of monumental unimportance. What are important are the Government's sleazy tactics in this matter, of refusing to make a statement to the Parliament at the time when it is going to announce its policy, and the dishonest and irrational arguments used by supporters of the relaxation of the embargo. I refer particularly to the argument of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, adopted by the previous conservative Government in 1969, that up to 300 rams be allowed to be exported. That argument was adopted by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and I expect that it will be resurrected in the near future by this Liberal-National Country Party Government. 
The historic reason for the embargo is a quite rational one, assuming that its crucial assumption is correct. It was imposed because it was believed that, if Australian merino genetic material were available to wool growers in other countries, there would be a substantial increase in wool production in those other countries which obviously would adversely affect the prices received by Australian wool growers. If it were so, that Australian genetic material would substantially increase production in other countries, it follows inevitably that prices would be depressed. So the crucial factor in this debate is whether Australian merinos have any significant genetic superiority vis-a-vis merinos in other countries. The answer to that crucial question is not known. It is possible and technically feasible to test the relative genetic merit of Australian and overseas flocks. It would be extremely difficult to do so and it would take at least two years for a test to be completed. But since the gene pool from which the Australian merino was originally bred is still scattered around the world and is available to breeders in other countries, it appears unlikely that the Australian merino does have significant genetic superiority. If overseas breeders have not already produced animals, the wool production potential of which is equal to ours in terms of both quantity and quality, they could be produced from the same gene pool from which the Australian merino was derived. 
A coalition government faces a very severe political difficulty in pursuing a policy of relaxing or removing the embargo, because in 1973, under the Labor Government, a referendum of wool producers was held to determine their attitude on this question. Two questions were put on the ballot paper. The first one was: 
Should the Australian Government permit unrestricted exports of merino rams and merino semen to countries in addition to New Zealand? 
There has never been a ban on exports to New Zealand. To that proposition, 83 per cent of those who voted voted no. The second question was: 
Should the Government permit the export of no more than 300 merino rams in each 12-month period to countries other than New Zealand in addition to unrestricted exports of merino rams to New Zealand? 
To that question, 71 per cent of those who voted voted no. The Country Party, which for decades has proclaimed that it was waiting for the industry to tell it what to do, requires considerable ingenuity to rationalise defying such a clear expression of woolgrower opinion. The best that the present Minister has so far managed is the puerile argument that only 26 per cent of all growers voted to retain the embargo because less than 50 per cent voted altogether. Therefore, the Minister has argued, the industry actually wants the embargo to be lifted. If that principle were to be applied to governments, it would mean that in every country of the world where optional voting prevails- I think that that is every country except Australia- the parties which are now in government would be in opposition, on the ground that less than 50 per cent of the total people entitled to vote voted for them, and the parties which lost the election would be in government. It is a puerile and absurd proposition. 
In a statement on behalf of the Minister, in the Senate on 3 May last, in reply to a question from  Senator McLaren, Senator Webster  dismissed the possibility of holding another referendum, on the ground of cost and also because, as he said, it would probably result in a similar fiasco to the 1973 referendum'.  Senator Webster  did not explain why he and the Minister, whose statement he was reading, judged the result of the 1973 referendum to be a fiasco. I presume it is judged a fiasco because it produced a result which the Country Party did not want, and quite possibly another referendum would produce a similar result. Like the generals in the Dominican Republic last month, the Country Party believes in accepting the results of referendums and elections only when they are acceptable to it. 
Let me express a personal view on this matter. I do not necessarily accept that the only determinant of this question should be the result of a referendum of wool growers. The responsibilities of governments extend beyond any wool growers or any other sections of the community. Governments are responsible to the whole community. In spite of that very clear expression of woolgrower disapproval, it is apparent that the Country Party will proceed and implement the policy which it implemented in 1969. On the arguments used for and against the embargo, as I have already stated, the real, crucial factor- that is, the relative genetic quality of Australian and overseas merinos- is not known. We can infer, I believe correctly, that there would be little or no difference. But there is hanging over this whole issue that uncertainty. 
The arguments used for retaining a prohibition on the export of genetic material, whilst logically correct and sound, incorporate two assumptions which, I believe, are wrong. The first is the assumption that the Australian merino does have a very great genetic superiority over other merinos. The second is that the stud rams which would be exported have very great genetic superiority which could be passed on to the national merino flock were they not exported. I believe that that proposition is wrong also, but more of that later. 
As for the arguments of those people who are in favour of exporting rams, not only are their assumptions wrong but also their arguments are illogical and dishonest. In particular I refer to the arguments put forward by the Australian Wool Industry Conference in the late 1960s and adopted by the then Liberal-Country Party Government in a statement issued to Parliament on 20 March 1969 by the then Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Anthony.  In announcing this decision he stated: 
The terms of the decision are: 
Export approvals will be issued only for merino rams that have been sold at public auction sales nominated by the State member associations of the Australian Association of Stud Merino Breeders. 
That gave the Australian Association of Stud Merino Breeders a monopoly on exports. The Minister continued: 
The prohibition on the export of merino ewes and semen will be continued. 
No attempt was made to justify a policy which allowed rams to be exported but continued an embargo- a total prohibition- on the export of ewes or semen. 
Let us examine the logic of that. If it was correct that these stud rams had valuable genes which could be passed on to the national flock and if there was a case for allowing the export of genetic material, we could have had it both ways by exporting the ram semen and retaining the animals. But the Government expressly forbade that happening and gave no explanation for the internal contradiction in its policy. The Minister's statement continued:  (iti) A prohibition will be placed on the export of fertilised merino ova. 
Again no reason was given. The only possible rational reason for restricting the export of fertilised ova would be to maintain what was believed to be a commercial monopoly of superior genetic material which Australia held, but we had already given that away by saying that we would export rams. However, the Government said: 'We will export rams but we will not export ewes'. No justification was given. The statement continued: 
Not more than 300 merino rams will be allowed to be exported in the first 12 months . . . 
Paragraph (v) stated that the conditions (i) to (iv) would be reviewed annually by the Australian Wool Industry Conference, and so on. So, regardless of the crucial fact in this issuenamely, the relative genetic standing or genetic superiority, if it has any- of the Australian merino sheep- there were internal contradictions in that policy and those contradictions were never explained and have never been resolved. That policy appears to be the one which the Government is about to resurrect. 
The central assumption or argument behind the relaxation of the embargo on rams was based on ideas originally circulated by the International Wool Secretariat, adopted by the Australian Wool Industry Conference and ultimately adopted by the Government. As they were presented by the AWIC in the late 1960s, I will quote some extracts. I mention first: 
If present trends continue wool will become a minor raw material no longer able to influence the stability of the wool textile industry. It is in Australia's interests to see that the likely increase in demand for wool, through increasing world population and rising living standards, is met. 
That is a variant of an argument put forward by people such as  Sir William  Vines and  Sir William  Gunn that wool's proportion of the total textile market is declining, that that is disastrous and so on. Such a claim is pure nonsense. What matters to Australian wool growers is not what percentage wool claims of the world textile market; it is the price they receive for wool. There is nothing incongruous about a minor fibre receiving a high price; indeed, the two are more likely to be positively correlated. 
The AWIC continued: 
Lifting the embargo is unlikely to influence the price of apparel wool because any increase in production achieved through this action would be gradual. In the long term, however, ability to hold wool's price would be assisted by increased availability of supplies . . . 
As Professor Lloyd later stated, how that would happen is a matter for wide-eyed conjecture. The AWIC continued: 
While demand influences price, the supply/demand relationships for wool as an international commodity are not highly elastic. 
That is crucial. Incredibly, the AWIC continued: 
Short supply does not necessarily mean high price, just as adequate supply does not necessarily mean low price. 
As anyone who has ever read an economics dictionary or an elementary text book on economics should know, inelastic demand, by definition, means that a moderate increase in supply will result in a very large decline in prices. In other words, what the AWIC, the International Wool Secretariat and the Government put forward as the major argument to justify this policy was based upon an inversion of truth. The chief proselytiser, if not the actual architect, of that deception was the one-time Director of the International Wool Secretariat, one William J. Vines, who was mentioned again last week as now  Sir William  Vines and was named by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as the Director of the  Sir Robert  Menzies Trust. I believe that it is most appropriate that a man such as the Prime Minister should appoint a proven fraud and charlatan such as William Vines as Director of a trust for another fraud and charlatan whose parliamentary lies were responsible, inter alia, for the deaths of 492 Australians in Vietnam. The relaxation of the embargo on, or the total abolition of, the export of genetic merino material in all probability would have little or no effect on world wool supplies, but there is this element of uncertainty that it might do so. It is also argued by opponents of the exports that it  would,  however, have undesirable effects within Australia. That is possible, although again unlikely. 
The Australian Wool Industry abounds with myths. One of the most popular of these myths is that the Australian merino is a highly contrived and artificially produced animal which, if the merino flock is not continually reinforced with high quality rams bred in studs, will in some way degenerate. That proposition could be true only if there were some correlation between the indices of production- the vital indices of production are wool quantity and wool quality; that is, fibre diameter- and reproductive performance. Some decades of objective study have shown that no such correlation exists. So, the inescapable conclusion is that even in the very long term a merino flock bred on a random basis- that is, run as wild sheep with no selection of parents, either male or female- would not change. Genetically, it would remain stable. The Australian merino flock has had for decades a hierarchical structure of breeding; that is, there is a handful- say, 12, 20, 25 perhaps- of parent studs which produce rams that are then used as sires in what are called daughter studs', which ultimately produce the couple of hundred thousand merino rams or thereabouts which annually sire the entire merino lamb drop. Because of that hierarchical structure it follows inevitably that the genetic quality of the flock is tied to the parent studs. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 

 Government Business, Order of the Day No. 1, taking precedence- 

Before the suspension of the sitting and the adjournment of the debate I was referring to the feared effects upon the Australian wool industry of the export of merino rams and, in particular, to the fairly widely held belief that genetic material that is valuable to the Australian flock would be irretrievably lost if merino semen and ova were to be exported. I do not believe this to be the case. The Australian sheep flock is structured in a hierarchical fashion. Because a sire leaves 100 to 200 lambs in a lifetime and a ewe leaves only three or four, the genetic destiny of the flock depends on the quality of the sires. Ninety per cent of the rams used are bred in registered studs and within the stud industry there is a hierarchical structure with 12 or 20 parent studs with daughter studs and then other studs which produce the rams that sire 90 per cent of all the merino sheep in the country. That hierarchical structure has applied for several decades. Any difference there might have been between the genetic quality of those parent studs and the flock as a whole is halved each generation, that is, in the average time it takes for one sheep flock to be entirely replaced by its offspring. The technical term is 'generation interval'. A generation interval probably is less than four years in the Australian flock as a whole. So at every generation interval any genetic difference which may have existed 30 years ago has been halved so many times that we can be quite certain that the genetic quality of the entire commercial merino flock now is comparable to the genetic quality on average of the parent studs about three decades ago. 
That is an important point because it shatters the widely held belief that there is some innate superiority in these parent studs which cannot be transmitted to the flocks that are bred from them. In time the flocks that are bred from them- this is the whole commercial flock- become genetically identical. However, a time lag is involved. If continuous improvement was being made in the parent studs, inevitably, given the hierarchical structure of breeding, this continuous improvement would be reflected in the entire national flock. If there were no environmental variables to affect wool production we could measure the progress of the parent studs in genetic terms simply by looking at the improvement or otherwise in the average weight of wool cut per head in the entire flock. There are, however, environmental variables which, in the short term at least, can be much more significant and much more important than any genetic variation. Nevertheless, that is the only evidence we have. If we look at the average cut per head over the last 40 years we will find that there has been a rising trend at a compound rate of about 0.3 per cent per year. If there were no environmental variables we could say, therefore, that the Australian parent studs have, over most of this period, achieved about that same rate of genetic improvement. There are, however, a number of environmental variables that would have tended to increase wool production regardless of any genetic changes. The most important of these is the widespread planting and top dressing of legume-based pastures, which have provided a higher protein diet throughout the year, the elimination of rabbits by myxomatosis and the better control of internal parasites. At least some of this very modest rate of improvement which has been recorded in the last 40 years is due to environmental and not genetic factors. So the rate of genetic improvement, if any, in the parent studs is something less than 0.3 per cent a year. 
It has been amply demonstrated and objectively measured in experimental flocks at Cunnamulla in Queensland and Trangie in New South Wales in particular that it is possible from selection within closed flocks- that is, flocks which do not introduce any breeders from outsideto achieve genetic improvements well in excess of this figure of something below 0.3 per cent. In fact, it has been demonstrated that it is relatively easy to achieve increases in wool production at a compound rate of at least one per cent a year derived solely from genetic origin. So the Australian sheep flock is not dependent upon the parent studs or the stud ram breeding industry. The entire flock is almost identical genetically to the parent studs of 30 years ago. The parent studs appear to have made little progress in that 30 years period. So there is very little difference between the entire 90 million-odd flock merinos in the country and the parent studs. If one accepts that conclusion, and it is the only logical conclusion which can be derived from the facts which are available, it follows that ram buyers would be insane to pay much more than mutton prices for the highly promoted merino rams that are sold in various stud sales, sometimes for tens of thousands of dollars. So it follows quite reasonably that the people who sell those rams do not want that conclusion- that is, that there is little, if any, genetic difference between the entire commercial flock and the average of the parent studs, to be more precise- to be known or accepted. 
When one looks at the absurd and fraudulent arguments which have been put forward, principally by the Prime Minister's friend, William J. Vines-  Sir William  Vines as he is now- and by the International Wool Secretariat when he was its director and the Australian Wool Industry Conference, and which have been taken on board and repeated by Liberal and National Country Party politicians who have taken an interest in this matter, it would seem that there has been some sort of conspiracy to provide a fallacious rationale for the export - 
Perhaps  Senator Sim  would like to take up the point. He is at liberty to speak on this matter. 

 - Senator Sim says that it is not worth replying to. Since he has chosen to intervene in this debate by way of interjection, I wonder whether he would care to go on record as supporting the proposition advanced by William J. Vines, the IWS and the IWIC that an increase in wool supply increases prices. 
Does  Senator Sim  agree that an increased wool supply will induce higher prices? 
Does he believe that an increase in wool supplies would induce higher market prices? He declines to answer that direct proposition. Obviously he does not agree with it. Obviously he also is repudiating the IWS and William J. Vines. I put another question to  Senator Sim.  Does he believe, since he has chosen to intervene in this debate, that, under conditions of inelastic demand, a moderate increase in supply would have little effect on prices? If he does believe that proposition- he does not answer, so I must assume that he does not believe it- he is not entirely ignorant about the meaning of economic jargon because, by definition, if demand is inelastic a moderate change in supply will induce a very marked reduction or change in prices.  His  silence confirms my rebuttal of the spurious and puerile arguments advanced by William J. Vines and accepted by the Liberal and National Country Parties. 
Obviously  Senator Sim  has endorsed my view. 

 - Senator Sim continues to interrupt when I am talking but when I put a question to him he does not say a word. Does he believe that if demand is inelastic an increase in supply will not affect prices? He keeps butting in when I am talking but he will not answer when I put a question to him. I suggest that he should put up or shut up. I place on record once again that although  Senator Sim  asserts without any foundation or rational argument whatsoever that what I am saying is nonsense, when I ask him whether he agrees with propositions that are crucial to the matter being discussed he refuses to answer. By refusing to answer, by his silence, he also rejects the arguments advanced by the people who have in the past argued that the ban on the export of merinos be removed. 
-What is wrong? Perhaps you would care to tell me? 
The Minister for Primary Industry probably will recall that in reply to a question last week the Minister for Primary Industry appeared to be opposed to any increase in the price of milk in Victoria, and that the Minister for Transport was even more explicit in a Press release last week when he stated: 
Any assistance to the Victorian dairy industry should not be done by imposing a milk price increase. 
Does the Minister know that the Prime Minister in a speech to the Victorian Farmers Union on 6 July 1976 complained that milk prices in Melbourne had not been increased enough, and that an extra $40m would have been available to Victorian dairy farmers if Sydney price rises had applied to Melbourne milk? In view of that, I ask whether the Minister for Primary Industry and the Minister for Transport have repudiated that belief of the Prime Minister or whether the Prime Minister has changed his mind. 
The Opposition and I welcome the Bill which is before the Senate and which has already passed through the House of Representatives. However, we consider it inadequate on two grounds. Firstly, it displays selectivity in the schemes of tax cheating scandals to be closed up. It closes up some of the tax cheating loopholes but leaves others open. We would prefer the Government to close them all. Secondly, it does not go far enough in dealing with those tax cheats who exploited the Curran scheme, which, mainly prompted this legislation. Let me make it very clear that the taxation cheats and what my colleague in the House of Representatives,  Dr Blewett,  called the parasitic entrepreneurs who devise schemes for them were over-endowed with optimism if they ever thought that the Australian Labor Party would join some alleged rebel Government senators in an attempt to defeat this legislation. We approve of it but we criticise it because it does not go far enough. I shall move an amendment later which is aimed at expressing that view somewhat more forcefully. 
We might also question the motives of the Government in introducing this legislation. It becomes very clear that it is not motivated by any principle or by equity between taxpayers. It is motivated by its need for revenue. The tax dodging or tax cheating reached the point where it was defrauding the Treasury of hundreds of millions of dollars- I understand that some Government spokesmen have said the Government would lose some $500m in revenue this year- and that is the reason the Government had to do something about it; it is not because it disapproves of tax cheating in principle. 
In response to  Senator Missen,  I think it is extremely naive to expect a government led by senior ministers who have publicly proclaimed the existence of their own family trusts, explicitly designed to avoid tax, to be motivated by any consideration of morality or equity when introducing this legislation. Tax avoidance is just a euphemistic way of categorising tax evasion. The difference is legalistic and quibbling; it is not a moral difference. The Government has been motivated by its need for cash and this need is greater because the deficit is ballooning. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is on record as saying, times without number, how disastrous it would be if the deficit were to increase and how grossly irresponsible it was for the Labor Party to incur a deficit of $2.5 billion or $3 billion. Of course what is now looming is not a deficit of $2.2 billion as forecast in the Budget but a deficit this financial year of $3 billion or more. It seems that the deficit for the next financial year will be even more than that. On 8 December 1 977, in a Press release referring to the Labor Party's proposition to increase public capital expenditure in the manner now approved by  Sir Charles  Court, at a net cost of $500m and a gross cost of $800m, the Prime Minister claimed that our proposal would be grossly irresponsible. He also exaggerated the $500m net cost by claiming that it would be $ 1,200m. Then he said: 
A budgetary expansion of this order would shatter confidence of overseas and Australian businessmen in Australia 's investment prospects. Earlier he had said: 
Under Labor we could well see an increase in this year's Government deficit in the order of $ 1,200m. That is an increase, in just six months, of about SO per cent in the deficit. 
I want to make two comments about that. Firstly, the $ 1,200m figure was a fiction of the Prime Minister. The correct figure on a gross basis was $800m and on a net basis $500m. Even taking the gross basis, an increase in the deficit of the order of $800m is what the Government will get even after the Government has enacted this legislation to close up the ludicrous rackets which the Curran tax cheats and a few other tax cheats were working. The Prime Minister said that an increase in the Budget deficit under Labor would shatter confidence of overseas and Australian businessmen in Australia's investment prospects'. They are the Prime Minister's words about the sort of increase in the deficit which the Government will have in any case. 
I think we can disregard all the cant and humbug about principle having anything to do with the Government introducing this legislation. The Government is motivated entirely by its need for cash- a need which is intensified by the Prime Minister's previous Neanderthal statements about deficits and the economic ramifications of deficits and deficit increases. There are of course difficulties with taxation - 
Politeness and respect to whom? I will show politeness and respect to those who deserve it. There are, of course, difficulties with the Income Tax Assessment Act when the High Court of Australia insists on bringing down absurd interpretations, particularly relating to section 260 of the Act, and stands the English language on its head and says that the words do not mean what they say. Our amendment will substantially overcome even this difficulty. I move: 
At end of motion, add 'but the Senate is of the opinion that the operative date for all the clauses in the Bill terminating tax avoidance schemes should be 1 July 1977, and that the Government should adopt as a matter of principle applying to all such amendments in the future that the operative date should be the beginning of the financial year in which the Government announced its intention to legislate. '. 
If the amendment were acted upon, the Government would catch more of the specific Curran tax cheats. It would catch those who set up Curran schemes between 1 July 1977 and 18 August. The Bill does not do this at present. I should also like to see some mechanism devised to prevent the Curran tax cheats of the financial years before 1977-78 carrying forward their losses into future years which, at this stage, they can do so the amending legislation will catch more of the Curran tax cheats. But far more importantly, it will establish the principle that the Government will date all legislation affecting the definition of taxable income in an income year to the beginning of that income year. Therefore, the lucrative tax avoidance industry as it is euphemistically called by some- I think it was far more accurately designated by my colleague,  Dr Blewett,  as a parasitic entrepreneurial enterprise- will be very short of customers. Who would be willing to pay the enormous fees that the parasitic entrepreneurs demand to set up these tax cheating rackets if people knew that before the end of the financial year legislation could be introduced closing off those particular rackets? Without the misguided knowledge of the Income Tax Assessment Act and accountancy and legal procedures currently being employed in an anti-social way by the parasitic entrepreneurs of the tax avoidance industry and without financial incentive, their skills would not be misapplied in that way. Therefore, the problem of the High Court would largely disappear. Most people who exploit these tax cheating schemes are people on high incomes. They are self-employed or other provisional taxpayers. Therefore, before the end of a financial year, if there were any widespread utilisation of a particular tax avoidance scheme an alert government or Taxation Office would have some notice of it through the revision downwards of the tax payable at the option of the taxpayer in provisional tax due. There would be warning early in April that something was afoot. An alert government or Taxation Office could move to close off the particular loopholes that were being exploited within that financial year. That would be a further deterrent to what is euphemistically called the tax avoidance industry. 
It will be argued by some, of course, that the latter part of our amendment embraces the objectionable principle of retrosepctive legislation. I have two comments to make on that. Firstly, it is arguable whether by definition the legislation is retrospective. Tax is levied on an annual basis. I suggest that any legislation passed within a financial year which affects the definition of taxable income or even the rate of tax payable within that financial year is not by definition retrospective. Perhaps that is arguable. The second comment I make is that when I hear particular members of the Liberal Party proclaiming their grave concern about this vital principle which is being violated by what they call retrospective taxation legislation they remind me of those other Liberals- frequently they are precisely the same Liberals- who fomented or pontificated about the liberty of the individual while simultaneously voting for conscription to send Australian youth to the Vietnam war and similar wars. They display the same type of hypocrisy with respect to this principle of retrospectivity that they apply to human rights. They proclaim themselves to be the defenders of the liberty of the individual against the real or potential tyranny of the State while simultaneously voting for the tyranny of the State for which confiscates the personal physical freedom or even the life of arbitrarily selected individuals. 
He was very strongly and consistently opposed to conscription from 1917 until his retirement from the Parliament. 
-What is the honourable senator's attitude towards the liberty of the individual? In particular, I want to examine the short and rather selective memory of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  on the question of retrospective legislation. I think he would acknowledge that he was the chief parliamentary protestor about this Bill. When asked on the program  AM  on 9 May whether he had agonised over voting against the Government the previous night he replied: 
No, I didn't agonise at all. When I realised that not only were they breaking the Common Law - 
That is the Government-  but also everything the Liberal Party has ever stood for so far as the law was concerned. 
There are several precedents for backdating tax legislation. There is one in the early 1950s and at least one other in the 1960s. More importantly,  Sir William  McMahon had apparently forgotten the Commonwealth Places (Application of Laws) Act of 1970 which made crimes retrospective. That arose from another ruling of the High Court which some people might have thought to be peculiar. The then Gorton Government in which the right honourable member for Lowe was  Deputy  Prime Minister introduced the Bill which I have named. In his second reading speech the then Attorney-General stated: 
The Bill, if enacted, will apply State laws retrospectively in both civil and criminal matters. 
That quote can be found on page 2801 of  Hansard  of 27 October 1970. The then AttorneyGeneral went on to list the matters referred to. They included larceny, burglary, theft, assault, murder and, in fact, just about every crime in the book. The right honourable member for Lowe who, as I have already mentioned, was  Deputy  Prime Minister took no part in the debate. He offered no criticism of the Bill's dragnet retrospectivity. On behalf of the Australian Labor Party the then honourable member for Canberra,  Mr Enderby,  moved an amendment to delete the retrospective provisions of that legislation. The amendment was opposed by the Government and by all Liberal-National Country Party members. That piece of history which made crimes retrospective gives us some indication of the depth or sincerity of Government supporters who protest about the alleged retrospectivity of this legislation. 

 Senator Lewis said that for effective business management it is highly desirable that the taxation laws be precisely known There might be something to be said for that. He mentioned the specific case of the purchase of a new truck. He said that if at some time after purchasing a new truck a business manager discovered that the purchase would not be allowed as a taxation deduction in the way he thought it would be, then that would affect the efficiency of the business. There is something to be said for the argument which the honourable senator put up. I do not entirely agree with it. I do not entirely accept it without reservation. As changes which are claimed to have retrospective effect to the disadvantage of the taxpayer are held to be undesirable, surely it follows that changes which advantage the taxpayer and which have retrospective effects are equally undesirable. 
This is not a hypothetical case. It has particular relevance to the investment allowance introduced by the present Government at the end of 1975 and its application to the Swan Brewery Co. Ltd. The Swan Brewery had announced in September 1975 the construction of a new brewery at a cost of about $50m at Canning Vale, but of course the money had not been spent. However, three months after the brewery had announced that decision the Government introduced its investment allowance policy. I asked a question of 24 April 1976 about whether expenditure on the brewery would qualify as a tax deduction under the investment allowance provisions but I did not receive a definitive answer. Eventually in the business pages of the  West Australian  of 3 May 1976, and in other newspapers, it was reported that the brewery's after tax profit of $ 16.566m, which was up from $9.5 14 for the year before the investment allowance, and presumably the brewery will have more benefits to come from the investment allowance next year. 
So it is clear that the Swan Brewery gained $414 m from changes to the taxation law pertaining to capital investment which were announced after the brewery had committed itself to that investment expenditure. If the point put by  Senator Lewis  is in the first instance valid, it is also valid in the second instance. Should the Swan Brewery be allowed to take advantage of that subsequent change to the taxation law to the extent that it has? I am not knocking the Swan Brewery. The Swan Brewery is just taking advantage of a situation which the Government has created. The final irony about it is that as a result of this investment allowance which was supposed to generate an investment-led economic recovery- and those with a very good memories may rememberthe work force of the brewery will be reduced from 1,000 to 350. Yet the investment allowance was supposed to generate employment. 
Although the Government has- and I welcome this minor change- taken some action against the tax avoidance industry we still find advertisements appearing regularly in newspapers. In last weeks issue of the  National Times  and I think the same advertisement is contained in this week's issue, we find one particular firm of parasitic entrepreneurs calling itself  The Small Business Letter  advertising details of how to reduce tax through primary production; how to further reduce tax through trusts; how to make director's salary rises non-taxable; how to make the cost of a new or existing building tax deductible; how to avoid payroll tax- that is getting into another field, but still- how to invest $6,000 and receive a $12,000 tax deduction; how doctors and other professionals can reduce tax; how to reduce sales tax; how to considerably reduce company tax; how to reduce sales tax; how to considerably reduce company tax; and so on. I have two comments to make on that. If those claims are not correct the Government should be prosecuting those people under the Trade Practices Act for misleading advertising. If they are correct the Government ought to be closing the loopholes in the taxation laws and it ought to be closing them as from 1 July 1977 as required by our amendment. If it was known by the people like these parasitic entrepreneurs who put out  The Small Business Letter  and by their tax cheating clients that the Government would at any time in the financial year legislate to change tax laws, these people would be without clients and the Government would not have to prosecute them for breaching the Trade Practices Act, if that is in fact what they are doing. 
That advertisement mentions trusts. It reads: 
How to further reduce tax through trusts. 
A question was asked of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on 9 May in the House of Representatives by my colleague the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  in which among other things he asked whether the Treasurer recalled the Prime Minister's statement of 23 November and whether the Treasurer had included amongst his recently announced proposals amendments to prohibit this practice, that is, avoiding tax through family trusts. The question continued: 
If not, is it the Treasurer's intention selectively to outlaw tax dodging and to tum a blind eye to those schemes engaged in by the Prime Minister? 
The Treasurer replied at some length. The answer filled up about a column, which is half a page of  Ilansard  and essentially what the Treasurer said was yes, he was going to tum a blind eye to those schemes engaged in by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I will read the concluding part of the answer. 
In reply to the second part of the honourable member's question, that is, the 'if not, why not' part, I would answer in this fashion: The question of what further reforms in the area of tax avoidance are to be undertaken by the Government is a matter which will be considered by the Government from time to time. I would not think that the honourable gentleman or anybody else in this House who is genuinely interested in the cause of eliminating blatant forms of tax avoidance would want a Treasurer or any member of the Government to speculate at large and in advance of any firm decisions having been made about what areas might be the subject of legislative proscription by the Government in the future. 
If the honourable gentleman is asking whether, at the present time, - 
He came to the point here-  the Government has under consideration tax avoidance measures dealing with family trusts as a broad category, the answer is no. 
So the Government's present intention is to continue to turn a blind eye to those tax avoidance measures which are exploited by the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the former Treasurer, and I would expect also, no doubt, by a number of others. The legislation does not go far enough. On the  AM  program on 23 November 1 977, after there had been a good deal of publicity of the fact that the former Treasurer and the present Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party had set up family trusts for investment purposes for the explicit purpose of minimising tax payable, just like the people who operated the Curran racket- the purpose is the same- the Prime Minister was asked a question and he said: 
I think it is entirely appropriate for people to have family trusts. 
The Deputy Prime Minister has gone on record in similar vein that members of the Government think it is entirely appropriate to avoid taxation in particular ways. 
They are designed to avoid probate as well as income, yes. 
There might be some fairly obscure examples of trusts where they exist for other reasons. If, however, we were to impose a higher effective rate of tax on trust income or even the same effective rate of tax as is applied to income received by individuals I expect that there would not be too many family trusts left, and I do not expect that you,  Senator, would  expect too many either. 
If you would like me to go into that, I will. 
Would you like me to go into that? 
I have farmed with my brother and for some years before that with my father without any others in the partnership and the income was split two ways or three ways, if you think that is relevant. 
Of course I had. I had one with my father and my brother ever since we were adults and for some years after we had been working on the farm. But if you think that is relevant, let us see what the Prime Minister said when he was asked about this. This was reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 24 November 1977. He was asked: 
Do your private family . . . trusts have the effect of lowering the rate of tax that you pay? 
The Prime Minister replied: 
Family trusts are designed to keep the families assets together, yes. 
That was reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 24 November 1977. That illustrates the morality and the double standard with which the Senate is confronted- a government which because of its need for revenue, a need which has been exacerbated by the neanderthal economic analysis of the Prime Minister, legislates to close a particular type of tax evasion and on the other hand senior Ministers of that government proclaim that it is quite acceptable, indeed it is even commendable, to evade tax in other ways such as through trusts. Yet the Treasurer says that the Government has no plan to do anything about it. This Government has been motivated by necessity, not by principle, in introducing this legislation. Its legislation would be substantially improved if it acted upon the principle that is contained in the Opposition's amendment. The legislation would be improved even more if the Government acted to close tax avoidance mechanisms used by senior Ministers in the Government as well as those used by people outside the Government. 
Does the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs recall a question which  I  asked on 27 April 1976 in which  I  sought a guarantee that total payments to the States- I stress the word 'total'- in the first three years of the present Government would increase in constant value dollars by the same amount as applied during the 3 years of Labor Government, that amount being 58 per cent? I ask whether he recalls saying in reply to my question:   . . my answer is an unqualified yes. The arrangements under federalism will be more generous for the States. 
Does he still stand by that statement? 

 - Senator Scott, when castigating the Australian Labor Party and particularly the present Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden,  for drawing attention to the harsh facts about the Australian economy, appeared to believe that because the Labor Party draws attention to these facts it should be held responsible for them. He reminds me of those ancient despots who made a custom of decapitating the bearer of sad tidings. I guess that it is in about that era that many people of  Senator Scott's  ilk have their ideological roots. Before directing my attention away from  Senator Scott,  I really must comment on a couple of other matters he mentioned. He claimed the Government had introduced full tax indexation. To claim, in the very week that it has been announced that taxes will be indexed by 3.8 per cent in a year when the indexation factor increased by 10.9 per cent, that the Government fully indexed taxes really is a bit much even for a member of the National Country Party with its characteristic respect for truth. The Government has welched on its promise to index taxes, as it has welched on almost all of its other promises. Let us look beyond that superficial although crucial observation. Perhaps  Senator Scott  would care to explain why the Government adjusted the indexation factor for a devaluation effect of 1.6 per cent, which was greater than the devaluation factor which the Government submitted to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Perhaps he would like to explain that contradiction. 

 Senator Scott mentioned, drifting off into mysticism again, that, in some way which was not explained, abolishing inheritance taxes would make investment capital available and would generate an economic recovery. That fallacy reminds me of a textbook on economic history I once read. The book was written by one of those apologists for the crimes of the dominant classes past and present who was attempting to defend or rationalise the corn laws in England. This academic prostitute said: 'Well, the corn laws were a bit tough on the English working class who had to pay three times as much for their staple foodthey were only getting subsistence wages anyway- as they would have had to pay if it was not for the corn laws. Really it would be grossly irresponsible for any government to abolish the corn laws when half the nation's capital was tied up in land. The author of that passage displayed technical incompetence. The capital, the land, remained there whether or not England had had corn laws at that time. The corn laws did not affect the stock of capital or the national wealth. 
What they did affect was the distribution of income within England. They affected it very drastically to the disadvantage of the working class and to the advantage of the land-owning class. Similarly that argument can be applied to  Senator Scott's  fantasy about the effect of abolishing inheritance taxes on investment and the nation's capital stock. Capital is a physical thing. What the abolition of inheritance taxes does is affect the distribution, or rather the maldistribution, of wealth. It does not affect the stock of capital. I guess we could not expect anything more perspicacious than that from an apologist for this Government. 
One of the less endearing and more dangerous attributes of the Fraser Government is its propensity to seek escape, if not from reality, at least from judgment on its economic record. When confronted with politically embarrassing facts about the Australian economy, especially facts on unemployment, government spokesmen usually respond in one or more ways. Firstly they blame the long-departed Labor Government. That is  Senator Carrick  's favourite trick; he did it again this afternoon. Secondly, they pretend that the facts, like the man on the stair, are not there.  Senator Scott's  variant of that trick is to blame the Labor Party for the facts because the Labor Party draws attention to them. Thirdly, they indulge in statistical trickery to minimise the significance of the facts. Treasurer Howard used all three of these devices in a speech which he gave to the  Australian Financial Rreview  Economic Conference which I think was held at the end of April this year. He said: 
In the two years November 1973 to November 1975, unemployment as shown by the ABS quarterly survey increased from 105,000 to 275,000, an increase of 160 per cent. By contrast the increase between November 1975 and November 1977 was some 40,000 or 14 per cent. It is thus clear that over 80 per cent of the total rise in unemployment in the last four years took place before November 1975. 
In other words, the Labor Party is to blame. In support of that conclusion the Treasurer dishonestly misrepresented the facts in two ways. Firstly, he used November Australian Bureau of Statistics survey figures, knowing of course that because of his Government's denial of eligibility of school leavers for the unemployment benefit as from November 1976, November figures before and after 1976 were no longer comparable. More importantly he used percentage increases instead of absolute increases- instead of the actual numbers. The distorting effect of this trick of using percentage increases can be shown, I hope, in the following simple example. Let us suppose that unemployment in one year stands at 20,000 and in the next year it increases to 100,000. The increase in numbers is 80,000: in percentage terms it is 400 per cent. Then let us assume that the next year the figure increases to 200,000-that is an increase of 100,000 expressed in numbers- a greater increase. However, in percentage terms it is only 100 per cent as against 400 per cent. That is the particular piece of statistical trickery which the Treasurer resorted to on that occasion. 
If one were to make an honest comparison on this basis one would firstly choose the February figures for 1974, 1976 and 1978. If one did that one would find that from February 1974 to February 1976, which is the period relevant to the Labor Government, there was an increase of 195,000- which was a lot- in the number of people unemployed. For the next two years the increase was 173,000. Some Liberal Party propagandists might take comfort from those figures and say: 'There you are, we are doing very much better than the Labor Party'. Incidentally, they claimed they had solved the problem, not just done better. However, that is only a superficial conclusion because with some possible exceptions among members of the National Country Party and perhaps the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  it ought to be obvious to anyone who thinks about this matter for more than a few moments, that it is very much more difficult to disemploy the second hundred thousand people than it is to disemploy the first hundred thousand people. 
So much for the Treasurer.  His  colleague, the troubled ex-Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)-  or the 'on leave' Minister for Finance- said on 24 February that the unemployment figures were largely a myth. This is the sort of comment we would expect from someone who then attempts to fiddle the  Hansard  record as well as electoral boundaries. The Treasurer on 10 April, I think, said that the Opposition had no monopoly on its concern for the genuinely unemployed. The phrase 'genuinely unemployed' is an interesting concept. The Treasurer did not define what he meant, but presumably he was repeating the old myth to which this Government resorts when really cornered, that in fact the unemployed are not victims of the economic crisis but are in fact dole bludgers who are not even looking for work. 
The Government's strategy for economic recovery has been based from the very beginningthis is one thing to which the Government consistently stuck- upon expansion of the private sector. Let us look at what happened to the private sector during the period that this Government has been in power. The latest available 
ABS publication,  Monthly Review of Business Statistics, May 1978.  shows us that the number of people in private employment, seasonally adjusted, from June 1975 to February 1978 fell by 74,000. There has been an absolute decline of numbers employed of 74,000. So much for recovery based on the growth of the private sector. The total number of people in employment has declined by much less than that- by 1 8,000. The reason for that discrepancy is that government employment has increased by 56,000. The Labor Party did not make up these facts. They are the facts and the objective view of the world as it really is. All we do is to draw attention to them. From this evidence it can be seen that this Government, which was committed to a recovery based on expansion of the private sector, has seen employment in the government sector increase by 56,000 and employment in the private sector, to which its policy is supposed to be oriented, fall by 74,000. One could scarcely ask for more decisive evidence of the failure of the Government's economic policies. But if he wants some more evidence, let us look at one or other key economic indices. Building approvals for the last month for which figures were available, which was February of this year, stood at 9,700. During the years 1974, 1975 and 1976 the average approval rate was 10,100, 12,200 and 11,500, respectively. That reveals a decline of about 10 per cent from historical levels. 
Another key economic indicator is the registration of new motor vehicles. The latest figure available in this publication, that for the month of March 1978, gives the figure for cars and station wagons, seasonally adjusted, as 32,300, which is down by nearly 5,000 from the figure of the previous month. It is the lowest figure since the previous April, and is down also by some 10 per cent from even the recent, depressed level. 
The greatest delusions of all have come from the Prime Minister. On 12 December 1976, he asserted: 
We are on the way to beating inflation, creating jobs on a sound long-term basis and establishing the conditions where individuals are again in a position to make important decisions as they see fit. 
Prior to that, on 26 May 1976, he had said: 
The Government's strategy is working. The present measures will help to sustain and support the economic recovery which is now occurring. 
May 1976, just over two years ago. It is highly significant that he virtually repeated those words this week. Since he made that assessment, employment in the private sector has fallen by 74,000. The key economic indices are all down. 
I must say a word or two about the contribution to this debate of  Senator Carrick.  With the possible exception of the Prime Minister himself, nobody epitomises better the capacity of this Government to seek escape from reality and judgment than does  Senator Carrick.  In trying to explain away the ballooning deficit that is looming up for this financial year and the next, he said that this was caused by increases in expenditure which could not have been foreseen when the Budget was drawn up. He cited specifically the beef industry assistance scheme and said that the cost of this was $ 100m. In fact, the estimated cost is $125m. That was really a very damaging admission, because he had said that it could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time the Budget was drawn up. We have had a beef recession for almost four years. Is  Senator Carrick  telling us that the Government became aware of the beef industry's problem three years after the phenomenon became manifest, only after the Budget was drawn up? Not likely! What  Senator Carrick  is actually admitting, by that statement, is that last year the Government drew up a phoney set of accounts because it planned to hold an election; that it deliberately excluded moneys which it knew it would spend later on. It did this because it did not want to publish the fact that it had a deficit that was in excess of $300m. 
I have just had placed before me a headline which notes that the Chief Justice of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Mr Justice  Moore, has said that there is no sign of recovery. 

 - Mr Justice Moore of the Arbitration Commission. One thing that  Senator Carrick  did not tell us was that expenditure on unemployment benefits is running $ 160m above the Government's estimate. The Government knew that that would happen also but deliberately excluded it from the Budget accounts. To produce a synthetic reduction in the published deficit, the Government presented a falsified set of accounts with the Budget. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Coleman)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 23 February 1978: 
Does the Public Service Act 1922, or any other Act or consequential regulation, impose restrictions on the publication of memoirs by people still employed in the Government service: if so, what are the restrictions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has any action been taken to vary loan interest and repayment conditions pursuant to section 7 (2) II of the Schedule to the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act 1976: if not, why not: if so, for how many individual loans in each State have (a) interest rates: and (b) repayment periods been reassessed. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, follows the question asked by  Senator Maunsell.  The Minister will know that on 20 March this year the Minister for Primary Industry stated that a beef export entitlement for the United States market could be- 1 use his words- worth as much as 31.5c per lb. The 31.5c per lb is obviously the difference between the United States price and the lowest alternative export market price. Does this therefore mean that the maximum income gain to Australian cattle producers from a higher United States quota- if all the gain were passed on to the cattle producers- will be 70c a kilo or $7m for each 10,000 tonne increase in the quota? 
I speak on two matters at the first reading stage of these Bills. The first concerns the stringent application of section 26E of the Income Tax Assessment Act and the addition to taxable income of imputed rent in situations where subcommercial rent is paid by employees of companies and of governments. The stringent application of this section has relevance in virtually all parts of Australia. It has become apparent recently that it is to be applied to farmhouses, including those occupied by owners. 
The aspect on which I want to speak tonight relates in particular to the Pilbara area of Western Australia. It is clear that to maintain the same after-tax income many workers in the Pilbara currently occupying company houses and in some instances government houses will need pay increases of up to $20 a week because of the imputation as income of the sub-commercial rent or the difference between the rent actually being paid and the assessed commercial rent for housing. For example, where the commercial rent is assessed at $50 a week for a house and the actual rent being paid is $ 10 a week. $40 a week will be notionally added to the occupant's taxable income. The extra tax on that $40 a week is likely to be just over $ 1 3 a week or about $690 a year. 
It will therefore be more difficult to attract labour into this area. It is likely that there will be a higher turnover of labour. One can almost certainly anticipate an increase in the number of industrial disputes as workers endeavour to maintain the same level of after tax income by extracting from their employers higher wages. It is likely that that result would occur at any time. The situation is particularly viable for this consequence now because incomes in the Pilbara region for those associated with mining are already falling regardless of any adjustments to the taxation system. Because of cutbacks of orders from Japan principally and to a lesser extent from other markets overtime has been almost eliminated. 
A succession of Liberal-Country Party politicians, including the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Premiers of Western Australia and Queensland, despite a great deal of publicity and some extravagant pre-trip claims, have failed to secure any additional orders from Japan for minerals and coal. The actual deliveries of iron ore, coal and many other minerals will be reduced. Consequently, overtime has been almost eliminated, and gross incomes will fall by about 25 per cent. Net incomes, as a result of the application of section  26E,  will fall more. At a time when there will be widespread dissatisfaction in the remote mining areas of Australia about falling incomes, the Government evidently proposes to exacerbate that potentially disruptive industrial situation by rigidly applying section  26E. 
The Government has told us nothing about its intentions with regard to other non-income perks that are paid to various executives which are not called income, such as free holidays, either free or concessional health cover and membership of clubs. Indeed, a couple of weeks ago the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  dodged a specific question on this matter in relation to occupancy by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of the Lodge. He was asked whether a commercial rental for that building would be added to the Prime Minister's income. This situation demonstrates that in this matter, as in many others, double standards seem to prevail. It seems particularly ironic that this provision should be applied rigidly in the Pilbara area, one of the more remote and unpleasant parts of Australia in which to live. Many of the residents do not even have the benefit of sealed roads. Perhaps it is not surprising that some of those people have resigned from the Liberal Party. I understand that at Tom Price the entire membership of the local branch of the Liberal Party has resigned from the Party. 
I am informed that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie,  Mr Cotter,  has complained to  Mr Duckmanton,  the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, over a recent ABC news report. It was stated by the ABC in respect of this matter that the member for Kalgoorlie had expressed an attitude which was unsympathetic to the claims being made by his electors; that is, the people in the Pilbara and in other parts of the Kalgoorlie electorate. It is surprising that  Mr Cotter  should have lodged such a complaint with the ABC in view of a letter on this matter which was dispatched from his office on 20 April 1 978, to a constituent of his at Dampier which is an iron ore port in Western Australia. The letter is headed: 'Tax on Rent Subsidy'. I shall not read the whole letter because it is fairly long but I shall quote the most pertinent sections of it. In answer to a complaint from this constituent  Mr Cotter  wrote: 
I find completely unacceptable the proposition that a small section of the people in the Pilbara area of my electorate should be subsidised by the taxpayers in other parts of my electorate. 
The point  Mr Cotter  was making was that if some people in the Pilbara were getting accommodation at a rental of, say, $10 a week and other people in his electorate somewhere else were paying $30 a week for the same standard of housing then, in effect, those' employees who paid $10 a week for houses were receiving an extra $20 a week as non-taxable income. Therefore  Mr Cotter  claimed that they were being subsidised by taxpayers in other parts of his electorate. In response to the complaint about high living costs in the Pilbara generally he continued: 
Incidentally, I am informed that the results of an independent inquiry into the cost of living in the Pilbara area is approximately 8 per cent less than living in the Perth metropolitan area. At the same time the average income in the Pilbara is much higher. 
I am not aware of the source upon which that assertion is based or what survey it is taken from. I am also not aware of whether the low rentals, which are common if not prevalent in the Pilbara, were a component of the alleged low cost of living in the region. However, I note that  Senator Carrick,  in response to a recent question in the Senate, repeated the assertion that living costs in the region were lower than in metropolitan areas.  Mr Cotter's  letter continued: 
I fully realise the hardships and diffiulties of living in the Pilbara having spent some years living and working in the Pilbara and Upper Gascoyne under the harshest conditions imaginable - 
That is, living there himself-  but I cannot support the continued tax free subsidies to these areas at the expense of the taxpayers in other and sometimes more remote and disadvantaged areas. 
That was the view which  Mr Cotter  expressed in that letter to a constitutent. Whatever the merits of this case may be I think there is room for general agreement that probably it is, to say the least, incongruous that  Mr Cotter,  having dispatched a letter such as that, should have the audacity to complain to the Australian Broadcasting Commission on the ground that the ABC depicted him as being unsympathetic to the complaints of people in his electorate. I think  Mr Cotter's  own pen shows that he was, to say the least, unsympathetic. 
Another matter I wish to raise concerns a question asked in the House of Representatives on 6 June by the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short)  in which he complained about a statement- although I was not named it is absolutely clear that I am the person referred tomade in the Senate the previous week about  Sir William  Vines who is, I think, still the  chairman  of the Dalgety company. He has more recently been in the news because he has been designated as the director of the  Sir Robert  Menzies Memorial Trust.  Mr Short  complained when addressing his question to the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  that the statements I had made about  Sir William  Vines were cowardly and untrue and that they constituted a vicious attack. The  Speaker  interrupted and said that the question was out of order but because of the nature of the question he would permit an answer to be given by the Acting Prime Minister. Some people might think it is a rather extraordinary comment for the  Speaker  to say that a question is out of order but that he will allow it to be answered. But that is not the point 1 want to take up.  Mr Anthony  then answered and said how terrible it was that anyone should misuse parliamentary privilege to make allegations about an outstanding Australian, et cetera. He concluded by saying: 
All I can say to people who want to sling off and make remarks about  Sir William  Vines is that many Australians will rise to defend him. I am one of those people. 
I note that the only two Australians who have risen to defend  Sir William  Vines are  Mr Anthony  and  Mr Short.  That is not the matter I want to pursue in this debate either. I return to the substance of the allegations I made about  Sir William  Vines. It concerns a particularly fraudulent rationale which was foisted on the wool industry in the late 1960s initially by the International Wool Secretariat of which  Sir William  Vines was then the Director, later by the Australian Wool Industry Conference and ultimately by the then Liberal and Country Party Government. In an attempt to justify the export of Australian merino rams- a trade to which I personally am not opposed, but for different reasonssome astounding propositions were put forward. I read from the AWIC document which was derived from the IWS. It states: 
If present trends continue wool will become a minor raw material no longer able to influence the stability of the wool textile industry. It is in Australia's interests to see that the likely increase in demand for wool, through increasing world population and rising living standards, is met. 
It appears from those words that wool should supply a particular percentage of the world 's textile market is more important than the price which is received for the wool, regardless of the percentage. The document continued: 
Lifting the embargo - 
That is the embargo upon the export of fertile merinos-  is unlikely to influence the price of apparel wool because any increase in production achieved through this action would be gradual. 
That is probably true. The document continued: 
In the long term, however, ability to hold wool's price would be assisted by increased availability of supplies. 
What was being postulated there was that if more wool were put on the market it would fetch higher prices. That is an extraordinary proposition to say the least and one which, if it were valid, would constitute an unanswerable case for abolishing the reserve or floor price scheme, which seeks to extract a higher price from the market by quantitatively restricting supply. But the key to the whole argument is found in the next part of the document which states: 
While demand influences price, the supply/demand relationships for wool as an international commodity are not highly elastic. Short supply does not necessarily mean high price, just as adequate supply docs not necessarily mean low price. 
That proposition stands truth on its head. By definition, inelastic supply means that moderate changes in the quantity supplied will induce substantial changes in prices received. If William J. Vines will repudiate publicly that spurious and fraudulent argument and explain why he failed to do so when he was the Director of the International Wool Secretariat, I will withdraw my comments about him and I will apologise for them. But until then, the charge stands. I repeat: It is most appropriate that a fraud and a charlatan such as William J. Vines should be chosen by the - 
The purpose of the six Bills which are being debated concurrently is to sustain or to renew the 8 per cent levy on gross wool proceeds which has been struck for some years, and that is being done for two purposes. Three per cent of the 8 per cent levy is struck to fund or to fund partially research and promotion activity both within and outside Australia, and the remaining 5 per cent of the levy is to be paid into the Market Support Fund which has been used along with other funds to finance the stockpile of wool which the Australian Wool Corporation bought mostly in 1974-75 and which has gradually been run down since that time. However, I understand that the Corporation is still holding some 1.1 million bales or thereabouts in that stockpile. The Market Support Fund levy has been aggregating since it was first introduced in September 1974 and currently stands, I believe, at approximately $170m. That Fund will be the subject of an amendment which I shall move subsequently and about which there will be some further discussion. 
I wish, first of all, to make a couple of comments about the research and promotion component of these Bills. The Government also supplements expenditure or the funds raised through this levy for research and promotion activities. I think one could quite reasonably cast some doubts or have some reservations about whether all the moneys raised by this levy have been expended wisely. We were assured by the International Wool Secretariat in the late 1 960s that the Secretariat's promotion activities would create a quality image for fine merino wool- that is, merino wool with a low micron count, a low fibre diameter-and that because of this quality image which had been created for fine merino wool the price differential between fine merino wool and broader or stronger merino wool would increase. That has not happened, although the IWS in the late 1 960s made that the major criterion by which the success or otherwise of its promotion campaign could be measured. For that and other reasons, not the least of which is the spurious nonsense about the relationships between supply and price for wool to which I referred in the first reading debate, one is entitled to have considerable reservations about the astuteness of people who, at least in the past, have been managing the IWS research and promotion program- especially the promotion program. 
For  Senator Webster's  benefit I indicate that I am aware that the White Paper of the Australian Wool Board in 1967 was not written by  Sir William  Vines. I understand it was written by a scientist called  Dr Moule,  although I am not sure of that fact. My objections are directed not to the White Paper but to some of the points to which it refers when quoting from International Wool Secretariat material. The material from which I quoted was circulated by the Australian Wool Industry Conference. That material was cited by Professor Lloyd, who was Professor of Agricultural Economics at the University of Melbourne in 1970 and who I understand still holds that position. For a period he took a position in the Industries Assistance Commission. That material may be found in a book entitled  Policy for Agriculture,  published by the Institute of Agriculture at the University of Western Australia. I think it is to be found at page 89 of that book; I am not sure of that because I do not have the book with me. That material was cited by Professor Lloyd and criticised by him on precisely the same grounds on which I criticised it. He was equally scathing. He said that it displayed a remarkable ignorance of the process of price formation and an inability to tell the difference between a movement along an existing supply or demand curve and a movement of the curve itself. The arguments of the Australian Wool Industry Conference were derived from the International Wool Secretariat of which  Sir William  Vines was the director at that time. They are arguments with which he was aligned. 
Turning to the Market Support Fund, the 5 per cent levy was first introduced by the Labor Government in 1974 in conjunction with the introduction for the first time of a firm seasonal reserve price, set at that time at 250 c a kilo for clean 21 micron wool. The yardstick for the reserve price is now fixed on average wool quality, not on a particular micron measurement as it was then. This without doubt was a major achievement- probably the major achievement of the Labor Government- in the agricultural area. It was a measure which had been long and fruitlessly sought by the industry. It was achieved finally by changing the Federal Government, after 20 years of Federal Government sloth and inertia in this area, after 20 years of Country Party impotence, indolence and/or incompetence. According to many members of the Country Party throughout that period the Country Party was, of course, always eager to introduce this measure but it was prevented from doing so, so they said, by the Liberal Party or sometimes by the Treasury, as if the Treasury were an autonomous institution not subjected to the directives of government. There are two possible conclusions that can be drawn from that claim. One is that it really was not so at all and that members of the Country Party were just shifting the blame on to the Liberal Party because they knew they were not carrying out the wishes of the people they purported to represent. The second conclusion is that they were impotent within the coalition Government and that they lacked the necessary competence to achieve this sort of reform. 
Like many reforms, of course, that have been introduced by non-conservative governments, by non-inert governments, this one, thankfully, has been maintained by the present coalition Government. I expect it will continue to be maintained. After someone takes the initiative, conservative governments, although sometimes they reverse reforms, more often than not go along with them, as the present Government has done in this case. Indeed, to listen to some of the claims by spokesmen for this Government, one would think that the whole idea was a product of initiatives of the Liberal and National Country parties in the first place. 
At the time this firm reserve price, which is partly financed by the Market Support Fund, was introduced the wool market was severely depressed. Within 12 months the Labor Government had committed more than $300m to the Market Support Fund or to the stockpile which was then being held and which had prevented what undoubtedly would have been a catastrophic decline in wool prices. I do not have uptodate figures, but in total I would expect there is still something like $200m worth of wool held in that stockpile, some of which has been financed by the Market Support Fund, some of which has been financed by loans from commercial institutions and some of which has been financed in the past by government. 
More recently the Government gave permission for the first time to the Wool Corporation to borrow up to $ 100m overseas for financing wool stocks. The Corporation had made previous applications to the Government to borrow overseas, I presume because finance could be obtained at lower rates of interest, but without success. At the end of last year the Government changed its previous policy on this matter and allowed the Corporation to borrow overseas. It seems perfectly clear that the reason for this change was not a desire to comply with the wishes of the Corporation but a desire to achieve a totally cosmetic reduction in the deficit which is, of course, a highly politically embarrassing phenomenon for the Government. It could be called the ballooning deficit. If the Government borrows funds overseas those borrowings make no difference to what is recorded at the end of the fiscal year as the Government's deficit, whereas if the Corporation borrows overseas the Corporation can then repay the outstanding moneys it owed to the government. I believe it has done so. The deficit, or what is called the deficit, is reduced at the end of the financial year by that amount. In any significant terms, of course, that is meaningless. It makes absolutely no difference to the money supply or any other economic indice whether the money is borrowed overseas by the Government or by the Corporation. In this instance, for reasons that have nothing to do with the welfare of the wool industry, the Government granted permission for the Corporation to borrow overseas to achieve that synthetic reduction in the deficit. 
There has been considerable pressure for some time from most, if not all, of the important wool grower organisations in Australia that this Market Support Fund be ultimately turned into a revolving fund. What is meant by that term is that after a person has contributed for, say, seven years, to a seven-year revolving fund he receives his contributions back in year eight, and the withdrawal of that money is matched by contributions received in year eight. There seems to be a fairly widespread consensus that at the time the Fund reaches about $300m- it is at present about $ 170m- such a revolving fund ought to be introduced. That will not be this year or the next year. This proposal, if it is acted upon, would most likely commence in two or three years time. Such a scheme would have some problems, one of which is that not all records of the contributions in 1974 and perhaps in later years are extant. On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
At end of motion, add ', but the Senate calls upon the Government to present to Parliament and the industry a paper on the advisability of establishing a revolving Market Support Fund '. 
I have moved the amendment because it puts forward an idea which the Opposition at least believes would be worthy of serious consideration, for which I personally can see no valid objection in principle. There may be administrative problems. The question of at what aggregate level contributions to the Fund should become revolving may become arguable, but in principle I do not believe there is any valid argument against the establishment of such a fund. Given the administrative problems, particularly the problems with records which do exist, it would take some time to determine the most efficient or most desirable mechanism for introducing the fund. That is why we are calling for this investigation now by the Government which can be laid before the Parliament, debated by Parliament and examined by people in the industry. 
When this Bill was first introduced I wrote to 15, I think it was, of the major wool growing organisations in Australia seeking their views on a market support fund. They have now all replied, and all have expressed their agreement in principle with the idea. Most, indeed, have gone much further than expressing their agreement in principle. They quite vigorously support the idea. Of course, this is fairly common knowledge. Some of the major organisations have been campaigning for it for some time. I understand that there is considerable opposition to the proposal on the part of woolbrokers. Within my lifetime anyway, they seem to have opposed every progressive reform advanced for the wool industry. They are also opposing it perhaps just because of their chronic inertia. As well, on a more mercenary level. I understand that the brokers want to retain control of the levy collection, something that they may lose if the revolving fund concept is introduced. 
Debate interrupted. 
I understand that the deduction, which is a total of 8 per cent where wool is sold through a broker, is made at the time of sale and that the contributions of levies collected by the brokers is not made to the Australian Wool Corporation until the end of the month. There is an average of 14 days during which time brokers are able to invest the levy on the short term money market which returns them about half a million dollars a year, so I am reliably informed by a woolgrowers organisation. The woolbrokers, in addition to their chronic inertia, which would lead them to resist this proposition, also have a more direct pecuniary interest to preserve. 
My final point concerns the 1973 Australian Wool Corporation marketing report. I shall not canvass the details of that report, or the reservations which some people, quite validly in my view, have expressed about some of the crucial marketing methods involved. But it appears that there is no doubt that there is majority- I suspect an overwhelming majority- support from within the industry for the basic proposition in the 1973 marketing report that there should be a single seller or exporter of wool from Australia, and that that should be the Wool Corporation; further, that the Corporation should have complete control over stocks and exports- which it does not entirely have now- and that as a secondary benefit economies of scale through different handling methods could be more speedily implemented and so on. 
Incorporated also in the crucial aspect of the 1973 marketing report was the proposal that a central marketing body once it had control of the entire clip could enter into long-term contracts to supply users at stated prices. A user would know some years in advance what the price of the raw material would be. Perhaps an inflation adjustment would be necessary, but there would not be the wild variations in wool prices that have been characteristic of the market, particularly in the pre- 1974 period. 1 repeat, there is ground for reservations about whether that objective can be successfully achieved. In particular, of course, there is always the possibility that stocks will not be available at a given time to supply the quantity of wool demanded at the stated or fixed price. Obviously, in that situation the Corporation would have to ration stocks on some non-price basis. That would, in the short-term at least, fail to maximise returns to the growers and could lead to criticism of the Corporation and dissatisfaction with the marketing system on the part of those would-be customers who failed to obtain supplies in the volume required. 
Despite those valid reservations, it appears clear that there is overwhelming support for the principles embodied in the 1973 report. The proposition I put forward- I do so quite seriously in a non-partisan way, hoping that it will be commented on in a non-politically partisan way by Government supporters- is that if this is what the industry really wants, at the time the market support fund reached a level adequate to fund the likely stockpiles, that is probably around $300m or $40Om with a couple of years still remaining, the Government of the day could pass enabling legislation to give the Australian Wool Corporation control of the clip. This would be done on the clear understanding that it had the funds needed from the market support levy to finance the stockpile and that the growers could then market the clip in the way that they chose, with the Government providing the legislative framework within which that could be done, without being committed to heavy financial contributions as has happened in the past, particularly in the 1974-75 period. 
I shall not detain the Senate for very long, but there is a matter that I wish to raise on behalf of a constituent concerning what appears to be, from the evidence presented to me, a case of faulty administration or maladministration within the Department of Education. I notified the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  of this matter earlier in the day. It concerns a  Mr Fred  Ward of 83 Blencoe Street, West Leederville, Western Australia, and the regulations which govern eligibility for the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme. Regulation 44, which is No. 1 79 of 1 974 pursuant to the 1 973 Act, provided that if a student embarked upon a course of study which comprised less than threequarters of a full workload the student was ineligible for TEAS. That regulation was repealed in December 1976, I understand, and replaced by another regulation which changed the eligibility criteria from a whole year basis to a whole year or a term or semester basis. That is, any student who was enrolled for less than three-quarters of a full time study workload for a term or semester was ineligible for TEAS even if on average throughout the year the student exceeded the three-quarters of a full workload requirement. The regulation was effectively backdated from December 1976, when it was gazetted, to January 1976. 
I do not want to pursue the question of backdating so much as the fact that the Department continued in 1 977 to supply information relevant to the original regulation 44 of 1974 and not to the regulation as amended in 1976. The Department wrote to  Mr Ward  on 9 March and enclosed a pamphlet which stated: 
Your entitlement to allowance is conditional upon . . . (b) your undertaking at least three-quarters (or two-thirds in certain cases) of the normal workload prescribed by your institution for a full-time student in a year ofa course, in 1977. 
The allowance was paid to  Mr Ward  throughout 1977 but early in 1978 the Department notified him that he was not eligible for the allowance in 1977 and would have to return all of the $3,058 that had been paid in 1977 before he could receive an allowance in 1978. In a further communication to  Mr Ward  on 21 March 1978 the discrepancy was acknowledged by the Department, which stated in its letter: 
Your references to the 'Information for Applicants' booklet and the 'Conditions of Award' pamphlet have been noted. 
That was when  Mr Ward  pointed out the discrepancies between the information supplied to him and the relevant information which applied at that time. The letter continued: 
In the case of both the 'Information for Applicants booklet and the 'Conditions of Award' pamphlet, this literature was produced prior to the amendments to Regulation 44 of 23 December 1976. 
The Department was claiming that because of that it was exonerated from all responsibility. A letter from the Minister written in similar terms on 6 April 1978 stated: 
While it is true that these amendments - 
That is. the amendments to the regulation of 1976-  were not included in the 1977 Information for Applicants booklet, you will appreciate that the booklet had to be printed well before the end of 1976 in order to be available for students intending to study in 1977. 
What the Minister appears to be doing in that letter is justifying the continued circulation ofinformation which was inaccurate at the time it was being circulated by his Department on the grounds that it was relevant and accurate at the time it was printed, regardless of the fact that it was not relevant or accurate at the time it was circulated. The worst example of all of faulty administration was a further communication from the Department to  Mr Ward  on 1 1 April 1978, which again supplied him with the obsolete and inaccurate information with which he had been supplied in 1977. The letter pointed out that the allowance was conditional upon: 
your undertaking at least three-quarters (or twothirds in certain cases) of the normal workload prescribed by vour institution for a full-time student in a vear ofa course, in 1978. 
In other words, they are precisely the same conditions which the Department had notified  Mr Ward  prevailed a year earlier and which had in fact ceased to apply way back in 1976. 1 notice that the Minister for Education is not in the chamber. Obviously he has other commitments. No doubt the information will be conveyed to him. I issue an appeal to the Minister on behalf of  Mr Ward  and, I presume, other applicants who would have been affected, to use his ministerial discretion in view of the fact that inaccurate information has been supplied by his Department. I issue an appeal to the Minister also to endeavour to see that in the future the Department supplies students with information which is relevant and accurate. 
I wish to respond very briefly to the statement. Firstly, I would like to say that the hopes of those people in the agriculture area- the area in which I am primarily interested- who believe that this statement constitutes, or is likely to lead to, a significant improvement in their terms of trade will be misplaced for a variety of reasons. I say this because firstly, the statement will have no impact at all, as I understand, until 1984. Secondly, their hopes will be misplaced because of an exclusion. The Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  when making this statement in the House of Representatives said: 
No government participating in the negotiations is committed to implementing offers if, in the light of the circumstances of the time, that action would not be in the nation's overall interests. 
In other words, that is an escape clause through which one could drive a team of bullocks. The governments will not be committed to observe the timetable if at a particular time they do not feel like doing so. The other very significant exemption is that commodities the import of which is already restricted by non-tariff barriers are, I understand, to be excluded from the negotiations for a general lowering of tariff. That has a secondary significance. If such a policy is to be proceeded with in respect of commodities which currently are protected by non-tariff measuresthey are the commodities produced by industries which require the greatest amount of protectionand if tariffs on industries that presently require a lesser amount of protection are to be reduced, the net effect of those changes on the structural efficiency of Australian industry is likely to be adverse. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
This could be quite important. In view of published statements by the Victorian Government, if the Commonwealth's 75c guaranteed, underwritten price applied without quantitative limit, it is quite conceivable that that Government would take the Commonwealth's 75c and then build it up in some way from its own resources. From the information that I have been given, it would be no more costly than to pay an additional subsidy of 5c a lb on butterfat. If that is the case, it seems to me that the whole intention in restricting the production of butterfat will have been emasculated. 
My second question referred to the Minister's second reading speech. The relevant passage reads as follows: 
If a State does not take up this offer the Commonwealth will meet the full cost of underwriting the production of all prescribed products in that State - 
Prescribed products' may be a key phrase:  -under stage 2 arrangements at the equivalent of 75c per lb butterfat . . . 
My question arising from that it this: Suppose that a State declines to participate in the arrangements. Would all manufactured dairy products produced in that State then qualify for the 75c a lb butterfat content underwriting? 
We have been requested not to take up too much time on the Primary Industry Amendment Bill and the other legislation which is to be passed before the session ends. It is a characteristic of this Government that in the last day or the last week before Parliament rises a number of agricultural Bills are pushed through the Parliament with little time for debate. Of course, that shows something about the priorities of the Government and the esteem in which it holds the agricultural sector. This Bill amends the 1977 Rural Bank Act and makes basically two changes. The first changes the name to the Primary Industry Bank, which is not important. It is probably a good idea, I think; otherwise there may have been confusion with other banks in the States. Far more importantly, clause 8 of this Bill amends the original Act in a way that completes the delivery of this institution into the hands of the Australian Bankers Association. I will say more about that later. 
Originally, in 1975, a promise to establish a rural bank was incorporated in the Liberal and National Country parties ' election program. The idea was opposed strenuously by the private trading banks but the Act was finally passed at the end of 1977. That Act was passed in the dying days of the last Parliament, which again shows how seriously the Government took this measure. For 22 months after it had been elected it did nothing but brought in this legislation and passed it in the week before the Parliament rose for the last election. Throughout that period, the idea was opposed strenuously by the private trading banks. They had their way, even with the original legislation, to a very substantial degree. 
The Act passed last year made very few things clear, but two things that it did make clear were, firstly, that the Rural Bank, as it was then, would be constrained by lender of last resort provisions, that is, it could pick up only those customers who had been rejected by other financial institutions; and secondly, that it would not be permitted to provide the complete range of specialist financial services that the rural sector wanted and probably deserved. That sell-out to the Australian Bankers Association has been advanced substantially by this Bill and by the undertakings given in the Minister's second reading speech. Firstly, clause 8 of this amending Bill changes section 7 of the principal Act in a way that allows the lending policy to be not as determined by the Treasurer of Australia but as determined by the Treasurer and agreed to by the Bank. In other words, it gives the Bank board power of veto over lending policy. Given that the second reading speech made it quite clear that the majority of the directors in this new institution will be drawn from the private trading banks, that effectively completes the transfer of control of this institution into the hands of the Australian Bankers Association. 
In 1977 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  returned to the Rural Bank for the purposes of his election policy and said 'that it would provide long term credit to viable borrowers for up to 30 years at concessional rates of interest'. After considerable endeavours to get clarification on the interest rate question, the honourable member for Grey, my colleague  Mr Wallis,  last Wednesday put a question to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in the House of Representatives. At the end of a long and rather incoherent answer,  Mr Sinclair  finally revealed quite clearly what the interest policy would be when he said:   . . the Primary Industry Bank of Australia would make available long term funds at interest rates set at approximately the same level as for overdraft accommodation on similar amounts of money. 
So the concessional interest rate mirage, which was shimmering before the last election, has now disappeared. The Prime Minister's election undertaking was clearly repudiated last Wednesday by the Minister for Primary Industry. In notes pertaining to this Bank which were circulated in January of this year by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and  Mr Sinclair,  the two Ministers stated that they did not believe this Bank would be an appropriate institution to provide finance for machinery and stock purchases, the type of finance that is usually provided by either stock and station agents or hire purchase companies. That led the Western Australian Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Old,  after he had caught up many months later with what was going on, to deliver a rebuke to the Government. The  West Australian  of 18 May reported that  Mr Old  was worried that the Bank might not be able to refinance loans for farmers' machinery. He had asked the Australian Bankers Association whether the bank would cover loans made by hire purchase companies, and the answer was no. That is another service that the Bank will not be providing. Those primary producers who thought they would be able to obtain finance at reasonable rates of interest, instead of the normally extortionate rates of interest charged for livestock or machinery purchases, will again be disappointed. The Minister for Primary Industry, in a speech delivered on 24 January this year, said: 
It is expected that the Australian Rural Bank will be in a position to make its first loans in the second quarter of 1 978. 
The second quarter of 1978 finishes in about three weeks' time. Yet we still have not been told when this Primary Industry Bank, as it is now to be known, will be open for business. The Treasurer, in his second reading speech, said that it should be open about mid-year- whatever that means. So, this institution which started out as a gimmick in the coalition Parties' 1975 general election program, to the degree, if any, it is not a gimmick, is now a complete captive of the Australian Bankers Association. According to the Minister's second reading speech, six of the 12 directors will be selected by the private trading banks, which excludes the Commonwealth Bank. One director will come from the Commonwealth Trading Bank, one will come from the State rural banks, two will come from primary industry and one will represent the Government. I shall be moving an amendment on this matter in a few minutes. 
The other matter to which I wish to refer- I referred briefly to it earlier- is clause 8 which deals with the lending policies laid down by the Treasurer. Section 7 of the principal Act is to be amended by omitting from sub-section ( 1 ) 'as he determines' and substituting the words 'as are determined by the Treasurer and agreed to by the Bank'. So the Government will not control this institution: Control will effectively be in the hands of the directors who are appointed by the Australian Bankers Association which did not want the institution from the very beginning, but which of course has quietened down its opposition since the Government obligingly transferred control of the Bank to it. 
Another mystery was opened up by the recently appointed  chairman  of the as yet, nonexistent institution,  Mr Walter  Ives. At the National Press Club on, I think last Wednesday fortnight- about 16 days ago-  Mr Ives  was asked: 
Can you see any danger of the private banking system unloading high risk rural debts on to the new Primary Industry Bank? 
It had long been suspected, of course, that this would be the one service which the Primary Industry Bank would provide: It would be an institution on which the private banks could unload their bad risks.  Mr Ives  replied: 
Not within the reference that has been drawn up. The Primary Industry Bank of Australia will be a refinancing institution and the basis of the operation will be that an impending borrower will go to his own bank and if that bank decides that his proposition is viable then that bank will go to the Primary Industry Bank and ask for the funds. 

 Mr Ives continued: 
But the prime lender takes the risk. That is the safeguard. Under those conditions I would think that propositions that are wheeled up will be soundly examined before they are put forward. 
So if  Mr Ives'  statement is accurate- and it has not been contradicted by the Minister or, to my knowledge, by anyone else- all that we will have is an institution which provides credit at commercial risks after the proposition has been accepted by the trading bank. This then leaves us without any reason whatsoever for the existence of this Primary Industry Bank, except to provide a costly facade to save face for the Government which in two election campaigns made a major issue of the establishment of this institution. The Minister said that it provides credit at commercial interest rates: The  Chairman  of the Bank,  Mr Ives,  says it provides credit only for propositions which have been approved by the client's private trading bank. So, what is the purpose of having the institution other than as a face saving gimmick for the Government and for the reckless election promises which the Prime Minister made in November 1977 to provide long term loans at concessional rates of interest and so on. 
It has not even been entirely successful as a means of fooling the public or as a means of creating an illusion of action. The Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation, in a Press release dated 23 May 1978, indicated extreme concern about a number of matters. One of those matters mentioned in the Press release is as follows: 
Extreme concern over the Banker dominated Board in that the Primary Industry Bank could only serve as a tool for the present Banking structure to 'off load ' its high risk investment in agriculture to the Primary Industry Bank. 

 Mr Ives has said that the Bank will not do that. The Press release also indicated that the AWMPF was extremely concerned at the fact that interest rates at current overdraft rates would be prohibitive to the vast majority of agricultural producers. Interest rates of that character are precisely what the farmers will get. So the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation is most unhappy about the control of the institution being handed to the private banks and about the fact that concessional interest rates will not be available. I notice that last night  Senator Young  put forward the proposition that the views of the farmer organisations should be accepted by parliamentarians and that parliamentarians should act upon them. The instance to which  Senator Young  referred concerned the export of merino rams. At an election the view of the farmer organisations was repudiated by 73 per cent of the farmers. Disregarding that little weakness in  Senator Young's  proposition, if he really believes what he has said, then he ought to vote for the amendment which I am about to move. The effect of the amendment is to remove control of this institution from the Australian Bankers' Association, that is, the private trading banks. Incidentally, the Labor Opposition in the 
House of Representatives intended to move an amendment to this effect to clause 8 of the amending Bill but it was informed that under Standing Orders it was not permitted to do so. So we have been forced to resort to moving an amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time. I move: 
At the end of motion, add ', but the Senate is of the opinion that provisions should be made for (a) the number of persons representing the trading banks on the Bank's Board to be no more than four, - 
That is instead of the seven representatives proposed by the Government- 
the numbers of persons representing the interests of primary producers to be increased to four and (c) one person with special qualifications in such areas as non-bank rural financing, rural reconstruction or related fields to be appointed '. 
The Opposition is not opposing the States and Northern Territory Grants (Bluetongue Virus Control) Bill and will not be moving any amendments to it. I will not detain the Senate for long but I want to make a few comments about the Bill. It is obvious that the Government considers this to be a very important Bill, so important that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  muscled in on it and made the announcement about the introduction of the Bill without the knowledgement of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  When the Minister for Primary Industry discovered that he had been elbowed out of the way by the Prime Minister announcing this matter, he announced it himself a second time. The introduction of the Bill was announced on the same day by two Ministers, by the Prime Minister and later by the Minister for Primary Industry when the Minister for Primary Industry discovered what the Prime Minister had done. Obviously it seemed to the Government to be a very important measure. 
The purpose of the Bill, which is quite clearly set out in the second reading speech of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  is to provide payments of up to S18 per head of cattle to producers in the bluetongue affected areas in Queensland, northern Western Australia and the Northern Territory. The finance involved totals about $3. 6m, a little less than one-third of which is to be provided by the States and the Northern Territory on a $1 for $2 arrangement with the Commonwealth. In addition the Commonwealth will supply some technical equipment for detection of the virus. It is important to note that the Bill ought to be regarded as a compensation measure rather than a control or an eradication measure. Because this Bill has been introduced and no doubt will be passed there is no room for complacency about the potential threat to the nation's ruminant animals from the apparent presence of a form of bluetongue in Australia. There are areas of vagueness about the financial arrangements with the Territory to which my colleague the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  drew attention in the House of Representatives. 
The history of the ultimate detection of the bluetongue virus does draw attention to the longstanding inadequacies of animal disease identification and control measures in Australia. This was the subject of a very caustic editorial in the  Australian  newspaper of 30 December 1977. Rarely these days does the  Australian  newspaper publish an editorial that is worth repeating, but I think this one possibly is. It states: 
Previous Australian governments, however, arc not in line for congratulations. For about half a century they have been putting off finding the money to build the type of laboratory that this country must have to control stock diseases. Positive identification of the bluetongue virus in northern Australia took 20 months. In this time, samples had to be sent to laboratories in the United States and in South Africa and wait their turn for processing. 
It is scandalous that this country, one of the world's top primary producing nations, docs not have the laboratory facilities to carry out such tests. In the euphoria of the recent election campaign, the Government promised to build a laborator)' at Geelong- and, even though it will cost $ 100m, this is one promise that must be kept . . . and without delay. 
I have some reservations about that last passage. I do not necessarily say that it is wrong, but 1 will comment on it later. The editorial does succinctly draw attention to the fact that after suspicions about the presence of bluetongue or some other disease were aroused it took nearly two years to get a positive identification, and we had to send samples overseas for identification. 
I do not know whether my colleague  Senator McLaren  intends to speak on this Bill, but honourable senators will remember that for some days or weeks he has been jousting with  Senator Webster  on the question of funding for the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory at Geelong and the fact that this project was further delayed by the broad-axe approach of the Fraser Government to Government expenditure early in 1 976 and 1 977 when expenditures on capital works were just wildly cut back as a matter of ideological prejudice rather than a matter of economic need for rationality. The National Animal Health Laboratory was one of the victims of that ill-conceived economic policy. The editorial in the  Australian  castigates with some justification every Australian government for the last 50 years, which may be going back a bit far. All past governments have been guilty of some negligence. That negligence not only continued during the early years this Government was in office but also was exacerbated by the Fraser Government which actually turned back the clock on this question. 
Another relevant matter which I believe has not been adequately publicised is the detection recently in northern New South Wales of a different strain of bluetongue-type virus. I confess that I do not really understand the technicalities of this matter. It seems to me that one has to have some medical or veterinary training to comprehend the technicalities of this virology, I think it is called- perhaps  Senator Baume  could advise me. 
I am grateful to  Senator Baume;  he probably understands these technical details- I certainly do not. I am led to believe that the virus which has been detected in New South Wales appears to be of a different type and one which is highly virulent among sheep should it become established among sheep. So unless we have effective control, or preferably eradication, it seems that the sheep flocks throughout Australia will be under some danger because of this. 
I make one other comment which arises from the  Australian  editorial. There appears to have been not just government financial neglect but a lack of planning over a very long time in animal disease control. The report of the Independent Inquiry into the Operations and Capital Works Program of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories drew attention to the apparent lack of coordination on this matter between various arms of government. On pages 46 and 47 of the report the matter of co-ordination between the policies of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories and the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory are referred to. The report states: 
The Inquiry therefore recommends that the packagingdispatch building of CSL be upgraded at the earliest opportunity according to the proposals embodied in CSL's 1977-78 capital works submission but deferred through budgetary considerations. 
The report continues: 
In the CSIRO submission to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works dealing with ANAHL (9.9.1974), the statement is made that CSL will not have the capacity to manufacture foot and mouth disease vaccine because this requires facilities with maximum microbiological security'. The Inquiry finds it extraordinary that this claim is not amplified by arguments, as CSL currently deals with severe human pathogens such as yellow fever virus. 
The report continues to make the same point about rabies, namely, that CSL believes it has sufficient security within its existing institution to produce a vaccine for rabies. In summary, the report concluded. 
Is the Inquiry to believe that CSL is competent to deal with rabies but not with foot and mouth disease? 
The Inquiry might have added 'not with bluetongue'. But the point which arises from this is that there might be problems with the scale of production which is required. Although CSL has the degree of security required, it might not have the capacity to produce animal vaccines in the volume which might be required. But one arm of government does not appear to know what another arm of government is doing. It is being asserted that a special institution has to be set up purely on the grounds of microbiological security to produce particular vaccines for the control of animal diseases and that these facilities do not' exist in Australia. Yet it is apparent that in another institution there are facilities which are capable of producing, and in fact are producing, vaccines for virulent human diseases. I am not attempting to blame the Government in particular for this. The reason I raise the matter is that I think it is a matter on which the various Ministers concerned- not just the Minister for Primary Industry- ought to be calling for co-ordination to complement the policy of speeding up the provision of the facilities at the National Animal Health Laboratory. 
We will not be opposing the Bill. In closing, I repeat that, although this measure will provide very welcome compensation to cattle producers in the north of Australia who have been hit not only by bluetongue but also by the longstanding recession in the beef industry, we should not be lulled into a false sense of security and believe that there are no potential dangers. Because of the problems which baffle apparently even professional people in this area it is difficult to assess how great the danger is. The threat of a serious outbreak of bluetongue or a bluetongue-type disease still hangs over not only the Australian beef cattle industry but over the national sheep Hoek as well. 
I shall not speak at great length during the second reading debate on this Bill, but I do intend to ask at the Committee stage a number of questions concerning clauses 5 and 6. There are three or four matters I want to pursue in some depth. The dairy industry has long been plagued, firstly with overproduction in the absolute sense and, secondly, within that general overproduction problem a tendency for the industry to be oriented towards producing the wrong types of end products from the same raw material, that is, milk. The industry has been too heavily oriented to the production of butter and skim milk powder. Marginal prices are extremely low and have been too little oriented in the past to the production of more-marketable final dairy industry products such as cheese. 
The objective of the Dairy Industry Stabilisation Amendment Bill and the associated Bills is to cope with both of those problems. Firstly it will apply some absolute disincentive to production by equating marginal prices received by the market to marginal prices received by the producers. Secondly, it will provide incentives for dairy factories to move into the production of more-saleable dairy products and away from producing less-saleable dairy products. So while we support the objective of the Bill and will not be opposing it, we have very serious doubts about whether this Bill will achieve that objective. The doubts arise principally from the fact that it is intended to apply production quotas at factory levels, not in the absolute sense that the factories will not be allowed to produce above the quota, but for any production above the quota marginal market prices only will be received. They will be considerably lower than general prices. 
The fact that at least one State government has quite vociferously and publicly stated that it will not co-operate with this legislation and the intention behind it appears to us to put the legislation immediately into grave doubt because section 5 1 placitum (iii) of the Constitution states that the 
Commonwealth may pay bounties on the production or export of goods but that such bounties shall be uniform throughout the Commonwealth. Sub-clause (7) of clause 5 of the Bill states that the powers conferred on the Minister by that section shall not be exercised in such a manner that stabilisation payments under this Act will not be uniform throughout the Commonwealth within the meaning of placitum (iii) of section 5 1 of the Constitution. 
The attempts of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to reply to the questions of my colleague,  Mr Keating,  in the House of Representatives in fact were self-contradictory. I will take that up at the Committee stage. We have not been dissuaded from our belief that the noncooperation of any one State government could effectively torpedo this legislation. Consequently, we will be moving the same amendment that was moved in the House of Representatives by  Mr Keating.  I want to make a couple of other comments at this stage. Firstly, the Minister's second reading speech contains one significant paragraph when viewed in context. The Minister said: 
The marketing arrangements which have operated for many years for manufactured dairy products have tended to operate against product innovation and the development of effective marketing techniques. 
I think that is entirely true, but its significance is that it establishes that the conservative political parties have finally severed their affiliation with the old dairy industry bounty, which established the very conditions that the Minister now deplores- that is, that a flat rate bounty was paid on all dairy products regardless of whether or not they were wanted by the final consumer. That is a very substantial improvement on the position they adopted in 1973 when the then and present Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  asserted that the announced intention of the Labor Government to phase out the bounty would be catastrophic, that the dairy industry bounty was the linchpin of orderly marketing, and so on. I note with some satisfaction that that obsolete and highly inaccurate view of what would be appropriate marketing arrangements for the dairy industry has now been abandoned implicitly by the conservative political parties. 
There has been a good deal of squabbling between the Liberal and National Country Parties on this issue, squabbling that is relevant to the impending State election in Victoria. The Minister for Primary Industry, in reply to a question in the House of Representatives on 2 June, was highly critical of the Victorian Government. 
Another Victorian National Country Party Minister,  Mr Nixon,  in a Press statement issued on 3 1 May, after the Victorian Government had announced publicly its non-co-operation in this matter, said that any Victorian State Government financial assistance for the dairy industry should not be provided by imposing a milk price increase. Victoria is one of those States where returns to the producers from liquid milk sales and manufactured milk sales are equalised and therefore  Mr Nixon  was forecasting that the Victorian Government might attempt to maintain higher returns on manufactured dairy products by jacking up the price of liquid milk in that State. 
I think that is probably not a very well founded fear, incidentally, but the interesting thing about it is that it totally contradicts the speech made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 6 July 1976 to the Victorian Farmers Union. He advocated, firstly, an increase in Victorian liquid milk prices, and he specifically advocated a movement in the post- 1960 period equal in percentage terms to the upward movement that had taken place in Sydney, which he said would have provided at least an additional $40m a year to distribute to dairy farmers in Victoria. He also quite explicitly advocated that liquid milk market returns and manufactured dairy product returns should be spread equally among all producers in proportion to the milk they produced, regardless of the end use to which it was ultimately put. So we have  Mr Nixon  contradicting quite clearly the view put forward a couple of years ago by the Prime Minister to the Victorian Farmers Unionand they are both Victorians. They are in different parties, but of course the real cause of this unseemly squabbling between the conservative parties is that they are jockeying for position for the impending Victorian State election. It is unfortunate that this petty parochial political squabble should be intruding at this stage into very important agricultural marketing legislation.  Mr Nixon  was also taken to task for his statement by the  Chairman  of the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority,  Mr Des  Cooper, as reported in the Melbourne  Sun  on 2 June. 
It has been stated that the Western Australian Government is wholly in support of this proposal and that it is the only government which is wholly in support of it. I understand it is true that the Western Australian Government has expressed a view supporting the proposal. However, according to information supplied to me by letter from the Farmers Union of Western Australia, as at the middle of May, it did not have the support of that Farmers Union. So, while it is true that the Government is supporting it, the present situation is that the Farmers Union of Western Australia which represents the State 's dairy farmers is not supporting it. Also, on that point, I note that a proposal very similar to that which the Commonwealth has now adopted was originally proposed by the Western Australian Department of Agriculture. It was criticised by the Commonwealth on three grounds: First, that a producer would not receive individual market entitlements as had been envisaged under stage 2 of the Industries Assistance Commission recommendations and, therefore, would not have an entitlement which would have a sale value in its own right. 
Yes, the original stage 2. The second ground was that selective underwriting would fall harder on single product factories and their suppliers unless some measures were adopted to rationalise milk usage within the States. The third ground was that Victoria and Tasmania, as the largest butter producing States, would be more adversely affected, more severely penalised, by this legislation which seeks to limit the quantity of butter which qualifies for underwriting and stabilisation payments. I think all those criticisms made by the Commonwealth at that time were sound, but apparently the Commonwealth has changed its mind on the issue. 
While the attempt to provide disincentives for butter and incentives for more saleable dairy products is sound, there is also a longer term danger that a substantial swing from butter production to cheese production could lead to severe marketing problems with cheese. The obstruction by the States- I think more than one State was involved- has prevented the Commonwealth Government from introducing the marketing arrangements envisaged by stage 2 of the IAC report. So, the Government is trying to introduce the objective of those marketing arrangements through the side door by using the mechanism of selective price underwriting. We are still not convinced that it is constitutionally legal to do so without co-operation from the State governments. Although the Minister quibbled about this when the debate was being pursued in the House of Representatives on the grounds that no official notification had been received from the Victorian Government, the Victorian Government has publicly and very vehemently announced its rejection of this proposal. I shall be taking up a number of specific points relevant to clauses 5 and 6 of the Bill in the Committee stage. 
It seems to me that it would be better if I asked my questions one by one instead of confusing the Committee by asking them together. First, is the Victorian contribution envisaged under this scheme on the 2 to 1 formula likely to be greater than the difference between the 75c and 80c per lb of Victorian butter production? In other words, would it be cheaper for Victoria to provide 5c per lb as an additional subsidy on its expected butter production than it would for it to meet the 2 to 1 financial arrangement? 
Secondly, I assume that the principles which this legislation provides for the Minister ultimately to lay before the Parliament- and there is a great mystery about the principles- will not be concerned with the method used by individual factories to allocate entitlements for each individual dairy farmer who is entitled to receive the underwritten price. Is the assumption correct that the principle is not concerned with the distribution from factories to individual dairy farmers? 
I wish to pursue further both those question. Perhaps I can re-phrase the question about the financial aspect. If I remember correctly the estimated total cost to the States if the proposal is accepted as the Commonwealth intends is $ 10m and the cost to the Victorian Government would be, let us say, $6. 5m. Would that amount of money be sufficient to pay a bounty of 5c per lb butter fat content on the likely total production of manufactured dairy products in Victoria? 
I thank the Minister. It seems to me to be clear enough, apart from this mystery about what the principals may be, that the Minister will allocate a quota to the factories. But the factories will then have in some way to allocate entitlements to the farmer suppliers. My question was: Are the principals likely to be concerned with the methods that the factory uses to allocate those individual farmer entitlements? To demonstrate the relevance of the question- I would think this unlikely- a factory may say: We have an entitlement for 5,000 tonnes of butter fat. The first 5,000 tonnes that is supplied in a year will qualify for the stabilisation payment and the underwritten price and everything over that in the last month will not qualify'. Is it envisaged that the principals will lay down the methods which the factories must use to allocate entitlements to individual suppliers? 
I am afraid that it does not answer the question. My question did not relate to a State 's heavily subsidising over-quota production, although that also is conceivable. I am not trying to trick anyone here. I just want to know the answer to this question: If a State does not cooperate in the two for one arrangement, does the 75c a lb butterfat underwritten price cover all of the butterfat that would be produced in that State, or does it cover only that production which is within the quota determined under clause 5 of the amending Bill by the Minister. 
I have dealt with the possibility of a State heavily subsidising over-quota production in another question I asked. I wish to raise a final point in relation to which  Senator Webster  has repeated a good deal of the explanation that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  gave in the House of Representatives. But there is one passage which the Minister uttered which has not been stated in this chamber and which I found particularly confusing. I will quote what is stated in the House of Representatives  Hansard  but the same thing has been said in this chamber: 
The legislation is not dependent upon State production quotas or upon State legislative powers. The legislation is based on the Commonwealth 's taxing and financial powers. No complementary State legislation is required. 
On the next page, the Minister is reported to have stated in the House of Representatives: 
There are other ways by which this scheme could be made to operate. The Commonwealth could always have recourse to section 96 grants if any State really wanted to play it tough. 
If the Government is confident that it has the constitutional power, through its taxing powers and so on, to make this legislation operative or to achieve the purposes sought by this legislation, why did the Minister go on to talk about the Commonwealth having recourse to section 96 grants if any State really wanted to play it tough? It seems to me that the Minister, in making that statement, is envisaging a situation in which one or more State governments have torpedoed the purposes of the proposal. I would like an explanation. If the Commonwealth is so confident that the objective sought is within its legal power or can be achieved legally under this legislation, why does the Minister speculate about completely different legislation being introduced using section 96 of the Constitution? 
I am still confused. The Minister repeated that the situation was something like this: The Commonwealth would be forced to review the arrangements if any State indulged in unlimited production. He used words to that effect. If I correctly understood the answer I was given a while ago, the 75c lb. butterfat equivalent underwritten price will apply only to butter and associated products up to the 96,000 tonne limit. If that were correct the only way in which a State could subsidise unlimited production would be if it also rejected the 75c per lb subsidy on production up to the 96,000 tonnes butterfat national limit and subsidised the whole of the difference between the true market price, whatever that is, 60c per lb or 65c per lb, and the underwritten price. Is that correct? The Minister made a statement that the Commonwealth would have to review the arrangements if a State fostered unlimited productionheavily subsidised production. I ask the Minister whether he is referring only to a situation in which there is no Commonwealth financial assistance at all. 
No, it is not really. If I understood the 
Minister's remarks correctly, the 75c per lb subsidy would be available only on production up to 96,000 tonnes as the national limit. 
Sentor WALSH-Yes, the 96,000 tonnes includes butterfat and associated products such as skim milk powder. It would seem to me that if that is correct- whether it can be legally applied I still think is in some doubt- the intention is that if a State does not limit production to its portion of that 96,000 tonnes total that State will not get the 75c per lb subsidy either. Therefore the reference to the review of marketing arrangements if a State subsidised unlimited production would have relevance only- I would think that this is a highly unlikely situation- if a State completely forgoes all Commonwealth financial assistance and subsidises production at whatever the true market return is up to whatever underwritten price on which the State decided. 
I think I understand that. The only thing on which I am still stuck- there has not been an explanation for this- is the comment by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in the House of Representatives that there are other ways by which the scheme could be made to operate and the Commonwealth could always have recourse to section 96 grants. That seems to me to make it very clear that the Minister is acknowledging that the Commonwealth does not believe that this selective payment of a bounty, which is what selective underwriting is really all about, would withstand a legal challenge. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 2 June 1 978: 
What is the expenditure by the Dairying Research Committee on research into specialty cheese making. 
) By whom is the research, if any, carried out. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 30  May  1978: 
What is the total staff of the Australian Wool Corporation. 
Are persons employed by the Australian Wool Corporation employed under the Public Service Act; if not, on what basis are they employed and how arc salaries and terms and conditions of employment determined. 
(a) What are the salaries and allowances payable to the  Chairman,  General Manager and Managers of the divisions of the Corporation; 
How and when are alterations made to those salaries and allowances, and how are they determined; and (c) on what date were changes to the salaries in (b) above made in each year from 1 975 to May 1 978, and were those changes in accordance with indexation guidelines. 
Do employees of the Australian Wool Corporation contribute to the Commonwealth and Superannuation Fund; if not: (a) to what fund do they contribute; and (b)on what basis are the contributions made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
) What is the total quantity of wool obtained by the Australian Wool Testing Authority from machine core testing of wool sold by auction or otherwise. (2 In whom is the legal ownership of the wool vested if the Australian Wool Testing Authority has conducted the machine core tests. 
What are the total charges levied by the Australian Wool Testing Authority for machine core testing and the issue of pre-sale certificates. 
How many bales of wool have been pre-sale tested by the Australian Wool Testing Authority in each year from 1973 to 1977. 
) Does the Australian Wool Testing Authority sell all or part of the wool obtained by it in the course of machine core testing and in the issue of pre-sale test certificates. 
If all the wool is not sold, what proportion is retained or destroyed. 
If wool is sold, by what method is it sold and what have been the total proceeds from such sales in each year from 1973 to 1977. 
My question, which relates to clause 6 of the Fisheries Amendment Bill, concerns the expenditure on research. The Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  in his second reading speech gave some figures for expenditure on research which I could not entirely follow, and in the limited time since the Budget has come out I have not had the opportunity to check properly. I refer to Budget Paper No. 4, page 37, and the proposed expenditure under the Fishing Industry Research Act. Although it shows that there has been a substantial increase from $521,000 expended last year to an estimated expenditure this year of $882,000, obviously this year's appropriation will not finance the massive research program that will be needed. In addition, no comprehensive strategy for carrying out the necessary research has been announced, but I suppose that is another matter. Can the Minister now or, if not, tomorrow or next week, after the Bill has passed, provide a statement of consolidated expenditure, whether through the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or the Department of Primary Industry, on fishing research by the Commonwealth Government for both 1977-78 and 1978-79? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In his letter to  Mr Justice  McGregor on 1 1 May the second paragraph opened: 
It has been represented to the Government that matters could arise concerning the propriety of what occurred in the course of the redistribution of the State of Queensland into electoral divisions that may not fall within the terms of reference. 
Who made those representations to the Government? When were they made? What were the matters referred to and why did they lead to an expansion of the terms of reference? 
As has already been indicated, these Bills and the Whaling Amendment Bill have been around the Parliament for some months. The Opposition has sought to have the Whaling Amendment Bill deferred until next Thursday, and the Government has agreed to that request, because the impending closure of the Cheynes Beach Whaling Station at Albany, in our view, gives rise to a number of complications which we would like more time to consider. It is our belief that these Bills, which are concerned with the proclamation of the 200-mile zone require some further legislation to regulate whaling but do not pre-empt the nature of further legislation to control whaling. As is normally found these days with the Bills the Government is introducing, this Bill leaves a great amount of detail uncovered. We seem to have drifted into the situation- I overstate the case slightly but not to an unpardonable extent- where the Government introduces legislation which says that the Minister shall be given the power to make regulations about A, B and C, and that is about as much as we are told in the Bill which is actually presented to the House. 
Partly for that reason I will later be moving on behalf of the Opposition the amendment which has been circulated in my name- we recognise that it has no legislative significance- the purpose of which is to lock the Government at least morally into a more definite commitment to honouring the guidelines for joint venture fishing and feasibility fishing determined by the Australian Fisheries Council. The Continental Shelf Bill, the minor Bill of the two currently being debated, does little but to close a loophole in the existing law under which vessels apprehended within the declared Australian zone have been able to escape from prosecution on the ground that they are not engaged in commercial operations. That is not terribly important. The major Bill of the two currently before us is the Fisheries Amendment Bill which arises out of the decisions of the sixth Law of the Sea Conference held last year and which is the first step towards proclamation of a full, exclusive economic zone upon which international agreement still has to be reached. It proclaims Australian sovereignty within the 200-mile area and imposes two obligations on the Australian Government, the first being an obligation to assess the marine or fisheries resources in that area, and the second being an obligation, under conditions to be determined by the costal state, to allow any unused resources to be exploited by other nations within the framework of joint ventures. 
The principal defect of the Bill is its failure to give any definition to Australia's obligations or to 'assess the resources of the Australian fishing zone as required by the sixth session of the Law ofthe Sea Conference'. For example, section 5B simply requires that the Minister shall have regard to the objectives of proper conservation and management measures and achieving the optimum utilisation of the living resources of the Australian fishing zone. It would not be unreasonable to expect something a bit more tangible than that. The reality, as implied in the remarks of the previous  speaker, Senator Sim,  is that the other countries have a great deal more knowledge of the resources of the coastal waters of Northern Australia than Australia has. As my colleague,  Mr Jacobi,  observed in the House of Representatives, this places Australia in a somewhat disadvantageous position when it comes to negotiating joint venture arrangements with those countries. How can we arrange for the management of a resource when we do not really know what the resource is? 
Of course it is important. I will come to that later. There is little indication that the Government has any intention of doing anything serious about that. I refer again to the comments of the previous  speaker.  Obviously there will be some difficulties in determining any joint venture or feasibility fishing arrangements with Taiwan, a country with which we do not have diplomatic relations. A related defect is the lack of money to carry out the research to which  Senator Young  referred a moment ago. I will come to the research later on. What I am talking about now is the capacity to enforce effectively Australia's sovereignty over the region. I noticed again today that the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  stated in his second reading speech: 
Hand in hand with penalties, - 
That is, penalties for vessels apprehended within the area-  we must also have some capacity to enforce the law, that is to say, to catch offenders. 
The figures which have come out in this year's Budget suggest that we will have a very limited capacity to do that. Under the appropriation item, apprehension and prosecution of foreign fishing vessels, appearing at page 100 of Budget Paper No. 2, we find that the allocation for this purpose this year has been increased by only $27,000, or about 10 per cent. I know that there is an additional appropriation which covers the same area, namely, grants to the States for this purpose. That appropriation is being increased by $50,000 from a total of $700,000, or in real terms by about 6.7 per cent. So we find in fact that in real terms there has been a negligible increase in the Commonwealth's fiscal appropriation for this purpose, even though obviously the passing of this Bill by the Parliament will significantly expand the need for such an appropriation. 
The legislation provides for the closure of the Gulf of Carpentaria which has already been exploited. Of course, the critical aspect about the guidelines to which my amendment refers is the intention to ensure that the Australian fishing industry has a clear priority over the resources within the 200-mile zone. There seems to be a belief- I am not sure how well founded it is- that the proclamation of this zone will lead to some sort of bonanza in the Australian fishing industry. If the follow-up action is taken- that is particularly an assessment of the Australian resource to gain more adequate knowledge of what we have available- whilst the move will be significant, it will not alter the biological reality which appears to be that by world standards the Australian continental shelf has very limited commercial fishing potential or the economic reality that Australian marine products, apart from high priced speciality items such as lobsters, prawns and abalone, will find difficulty in competing in price on world markets. There is or appears to be considerable scope for the expansion of the Australian fishing industry in the area of import replacement. 
I move by way of amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bills: 
At the end of motion, add ', but the Senate calls upon the Government to ensure that the guidelines determined by the Australian Fisheries Council in January 1977, to control foreign participation and give first priority to the local industry, are strictly observed. 
Before concluding my remarks I wish to give a brief outline- this is not a comprehensive outline- of the sorts of matters that are covered in the guidelines. Important matters covered in the guidelines include proposals that any joint venture must be approved by both the Commonwealth and the relevant State Minister, that joint ventures are to be limited to areas not adequately developed by Australian fishermen, that it must be required that there be some advantage in arrangements for the resource to be exploited by foreign vessels, and so on. Other regulations cover conditions under which vessels can enter Australian ports. Another important matter in the guidelines deals with feasibility fishing. Such arrangements are to be either on foreign initiative or in response to Australian fishing authorities. In the second case it is envisaged that both Australian industry and interested foreign governments would be notified. Again the proposals are to be approved by both Federal and State Ministers. Approval would be limited to areas and species not sufficiently exploited by Australian fishermen. 
Whilst the Opposition recognises that even if this amendment were carried it would have no strict legal significance, it is concerned that, given the vague nature of the main Bill which is before us or the enormous areas upon which it says nothing except that the Government will issue regulations, the Government be committed, at least in a moral sense, more firmly to adherence to those guidelines. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I had not realised that we were to proceed immediately with the second reading debate on this matter. As a result, the Opposition is still having drafted an amendment which will be moved later by, 1 think,  Senator Georges.  It could be argued, as it has been in the past, that a tariff, no matter how high, is preferable to quota restrictions which provide the same amount of effective protection. The potential monopoly profit in a tariff situation accrues to the Government or public authorities. If effective protection is provided by way of quotas then the monopoly profit is transferred to the person who holds the licence to import. Any licence to import which has any significant effect on imports at all is tantamount to a licence to print money. It has been observed in the financial Press recently in criticism of the Government's previous quota policies that, although the Government had not expanded the private sector, as its rhetoric consistently claimed it was its objective to do, it had done something which was quite unknown at least in this century. It had transferred taxation into the private sector, which meant of course that by granting quotas to particular importers the Government had in effect given those importers the right to levy taxation. 
It is arguable and it is probably unprovable whether this 12$ per cent increase in tariffwhich of course is almost a 30 per cent increase in the actual rate; from 45 per cent to 57'/2 per cent the increase works out at about 28 per centprovides a greater or a lesser degree of effective protection than the previous quota restrictions. But to the degree that it provides a greater level of protection than the previous quota restrictions, it will be contradictory to one of the Government's other policy changes in this area, that is, the decision to reduce sales tax on motor vehicles from  27Vi  per cent to 15 per cent. If this increase in the tariff on certain imported goods does increase the effective protection to the Australian motor industry then the price of domestically produced motor cars is unlikely to fall to the full extent of the 12V4 per cent sales tax reduction because to the degree that this extra protection will minimise competition among Australian motor car producers they are likely to appropriate that benefit to themselves instead of passing it on to the public. 
I guess that in a perverse way there is some consistency in the Government's introducing the measure at this time. We have just had a succession of Ministers travelling to the European Economic Community lecturing and hectoring politicians in that area and in other parts of the world about the virtues of free trade and the damaging, deflationary, depression-inducing effects of increasing protection. In a way I suppose it is quite consistent for the Ministers who have just been lecturing and hectoring the rest of the world along those lines to come back to Australia and, in the first week of sitting, to present a Bill to the Australian Parliament which does precisely that. It is fully consistent with the actions of a government which won an election with the promise of tax cuts by holding out a fistful of fivers, and then immediately it brings in another Budget, the fistful of fivers disappears back into the Government's collective pocket. It is wholly consistent with the sort of duplicity which we have come to expect from this Government and which we now regard as normal. 
I return to the effect of this Bill on Australia's trading position. If the succession of Ministers who visited Europe-  Mr Fraser, Mr Anthony, Mr Garland, Mr Howard  in his time and a few others whom I cannot recall off the cuff- are not already the laughing stock of Europe as a result of their posturing in the EEC, they certainly will be after this Bill has passed through the Parliament. Initially, we heard a lot of rhetoric from the Government, particularly from  Mr Garland, Mr Anthony  and  Mr Fraser,  about the negotiation of bilateral arrangements with various countries of the EEC to secure less restricted access for Australian agricultural products into that market. After several months of this posturing and grandstanding it appears that it finally penetrated the consciousness of the senior Ministers of this Government that, in fact, one could not do bilateral deals with members of the EEC with respect to entry for agricultural imports, that the European Economic Community has a common agricultural policy- I think it has had it ever since the Treaty of Rome was signed in 1963- and that any negotiations to change that common agricultural policy would have to be directed at the whole bloc of the EEC and not at individual nations. So the antics of these senior Ministers leave two possible conclusions. The first one is that they did not know that the common agricultural policy existed. The second conclusion is that their posturing on the stage in Europe was designed for domestic political consumption and was not intended by them ever to be taken seriously. 
I note that the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council issued a sycophantic statement yesterday endorsing the Budget on the ground that the really good thing for farmers about the Budget was that it would get on top of inflation, which begs a couple of interesting questions. Firstly, the only ground on which that Budget can be considered anti-inflationary is the degree to which it will drive the economy deeper into depression. On any other ground, whether the Budget is anti-inflationary is at least highly debatable. However, the  President  of the AWGC issued a statement saying that he approved of the Budget because it would get on top of inflation. It is worth observing that we got on top of inflation in Australia very effectively in 1931 when, in fact, the retail price index, as it was known at the time, fell by 1 1 per cent. We had 1 1 per cent deflation. It did not help the farmers very much. 
Notwithstanding the many years of campaigning and the number of very good arguments which have been put forward by the AWGC on the effects of protection on the agricultural sector of the economy, it seems to have entirely escaped  Sir Samuel  Burston 's notice that one of the measures which was associated with the Budget, of which he approves, is that tariffs will be increased effectively by nearly 30 per cent for our most highly protected industries. That makes rather a mockery of the document,  Rural Policy,  which the AWGC circulated last year which concentrated largely on tariffs. The  President  of that organisation seems to be completely oblivious to the fact that the Budget, of which he approves, contains a provision like this. 
But the other matters in this Bill to which the Opposition mainly objects and which will be the subject of the amendment to be moved later by  Senator Georges  are- on the face of it, at least, it appears to be illegal- that it is in conflict, certainly with the spirit and probably with the letter, of the Industries Assistance Commission Act. It would be surprising indeed if there were not a legal challenge mounted to this Act. For that reason we will be moving an amendment later along the lines that the House declines to give a second reading to this Bill until the Government offers a satisfactory explanation of why it does not breach the relevant sections of the Act. 
To summarise, if for any given level of protection it is preferable that the protection be in the form of tariffs rather than quotas in that way the Bill could be counted to be an improvement, because the tariff accrues to the Government and the equivalent licence to print money, if protection is provided by way of quotas, accrues to those people who hold the quotas. We cannot tell at this stage, and as far as I know the Government has not attempted to give any official estimate as to whether this measure effectively increases the rate of protection or whether it does not. But if it does effectively increase the rate of protection it will seriously erode the objective of the Government in reducing sales tax for motor vehicles because the additional profits are likely to be appropriated by the motor vehicle manufacturers rather than to be passed on to the public, as indeed, quite obviously, the level of protection provided for the clothing and footwear industries is appropriated by the manufacturers who have recorded average levels of profits on funds employed double that for manufacturing industry as a whole. 
Finally, if Australian Ministers junketeering in Europe are not already regarded as galahs by the trade negotiation people of the EEC, they certainly will be regarded as galahs after this series of events. That is just comment. The Opposition's real objection to this Bill, which will be the substance of the amendment, is that it appears to us that the proposed Act is, in fact, illegal because it is in conflict with an existing law of this country. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 9 June 1978: 
1 ) What criteria will the Government use to assess the success or otherwise of the Wool Corporation's Limited Offer to Purchase Scheme. 
Is the Limited Offer to Purchase Scheme to continue in 1978 and 1979; if so, how many bales are likely to be purchased in each year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 9 June 1978: 
1 ) When will the Young Farmers Establishment Scheme, referred to in the 1975 coalition rural policy statement and the publication 'Liberal-National Country Party Government Initiatives in the Rural Sector in 1 976 ', be established. 
If the Government has decided not to proceed with this proposal, will the Minister make a clear announcement to this effect. 
-That is written in this Bill. But what is the factor now? Is it one, 1.5, 2, or 0.75? From reading the Bill, I understand that there is a precise figure by which the dollar amounts listed in the Schedule of the Bill are multiplied to determine the bounty which is actually payable 
I wish to pursue a couple of questions on the Bounty (Agricultural Tractors) Amendment Bill. During the second reading debate, I raised a matter concerning clause 4 of this Bill, which refers to the factor by which the amount set out in the Schedule to the Bill will be multiplied. What factor currently applies? Does the Government anticipate any substantial change in this factor next year or in subsequent years? 
I might not have made the question entirely clear. Let me put it in these terms: In the 1 50 and over category listed in the Schedule- I seek confirmation or correction as to my understanding of the position- for a machine that had 56 per cent local content I assume a bounty of around $1,900 would be payable. I do not want to be held precisely to that figure- give or take $100 or $200 either way. If the local content fell to 54 per cent no bounty would be payable. 
I thank the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  for that information. What will happen when the level of local content falls to 54 per cent? Will the bounty cut out altogether? Will it cut out completely from between 0.6 and 0.7 of the amount ascertained in accordance with the Schedule as printed in the Bill? 
I am still thinking this through. I am seeking confirmation or otherwise of my understanding of the issue. If there were a local content level of, say, 56 per cent the factor would be in the vicinity of 0.6. If that is so, will the bounty fall from 0.6 of whatever is printed in the Schedule to nothing just because the local content level falls another couple of percentage points? 
I thank the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  for his answer about the factor. I have a further question. There are other references in the Bill to the bounty being gradually phased down as the proportion of local content falls. I make the observation that this matter of local content has far more relevance now that the bounty has been extended to units of above 105 kilowatts because in this power range the total Australian market is very small; consequently, given the very small domestic market, the chances of producing in Australia engines and other major components or the chances of achieving economies of scale for the production of engines and other major components are remote, to say the least. There is a better chance of achieving acceptable economies of scale with units of below 105 kilowatts. But that is a passing comment. The information I seek is to what percentage of local content or within what range of local content percentages will that factor of 1.281141 apply? 
With the presentation of the Budget Speech, the Government announced a series of further changes to the pricing of domestically produced crude oil. As a result of that decision, a Bill will be introduced to increase to $ 1 0 a barrel, in round figures, the levy payable on Australianproduced crude oil. This Bill provides for a rebate of $7 of that $10 levy on that portion of domestic crude oil currently priced at world parity. That is some 27 or 28 per cent of the total production. It is part of what would very loosely- I emphasise the term- be described as the package which the Government has introduced over the last couple of years in relation to crude oil pricing policy. I say that the term 'package' would have to be used very loosely because nowhere is a coherent plan being followed by the Government in its energypricing policy, about which I will say more later. 
One thing needs to be very clearly established from the outset, and that is the reason for that government decision to increase the levy to $10 a barrel in round figures, thereby pricing Australian domestic crude oil at full import parity. We could discuss at some length the definition of import parity, but I do not propose to do that at this stage. The Government has not explained what assurances it will seek that the posted price of Middle East crude oil will be in fact the real price at which it will be sold, so there are some grounds to argue about what import parity is, but we will do that on another occasion. The reason that this enormous impost has been introduced was spelled out very succinctly by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the day after the Budget was presented. On  A.M.,  on 16 August, he said: 
In relation to Bass Strait oil it was never a question of a resources tax or no tax. It was a question of a resources tax or levy. 
So the Prime Minister has made it perfectly clear that the reason that we have this enormous impost, which will add at least $800m in a full year to the refinery cost of crude oil, is that the Government, in June, reneged on its earlier promise to introduce a resources tax. We have this enormous impost on the Australian community because the Government did not have the courage to proceed with the resources tax, which it had promised in the 1977 Budget, because it caved in, as it is accustomed to do, to pressure from powerful business interests. As it did with IBM Australia Ltd, so it does with EssoBHP. It is very important to note, and I am indebted to the Prime Minister for making it so perfectly clear, that this impost is the direct consequence of the Government's decision to abandon a resources tax. The Prime Minister is, of course, correct in saying that as far as government revenue is concerned they are alternatives. There is, however, a crucial difference between their impact. A resources tax would have been paid from the windfall gains of Esso-BHP and other domestic oil producers. This crude oil levy will be fully passed on to consumers and will be paid by the Australian people. 
There is some doubt as to the precise aggregate effect of this measure on crude oil cost. The Budget Papers provide an estimate of $804m. The Melbourne  Age,  on the Friday after the Budget, 18 August, carried a report from the Petroleum Refiners Association which estimated the additional cost in a full year to be $ 1 ,000m. So there is some difference of opinion about the precise effect of this increased tax, but it appears certain, notwithstanding the Prices Justification Tribunal decision of last week, that it will add at least 16c a gallon to the retail price of motor spirit. That increase will, of course, be additional to the increases in petroleum product prices resulting from the 1977 Budget decision to increase the pre-existing levy and to price some 1 5, 16 or 17 per cent- I am not sure of the exact figure- of Australian domestic production at import parity, as well as the additional 10 per cent or thereabouts of Australian crude oil production at import parity as from 1 July 1978. This 16c a gallon increase is additional to those increases which we have already had thrust upon us this year and last. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  announced in the Budget Speech that the Government intended to continue the policy on the price to be received by Australian producers of domestic crude oil, that it announced in the 1977 Budget. By 1980-81 50 per cent of domestic crude production will be priced to the producer at full import parity, minus only the pre-existing $3 a barrel levy for government tax. So the only logical deduction possible from those facts is that the proceeds of this levy, which are estimated to be some $6 80m in this financial year, will be transferred progressively from the Government to the Australian domestic oil producers, principally EssoBHP. As a result of that transfer and the pre- 1978 Budget pricing decisions, Esso-BHP by 1 980-8 1 will be receiving a windfall profit of the order of $500m. 
One of the more ominous statements in the Treasurer's Budget Speech which has not received the attention it deserves was his statement that after 1980-81 the producer's price, that is the price received by Esso-BHP and the other producers, would be 'moving to 100 per cent as soon as possible'. The 100 per cent refers to 100 per cent of import parity. Insofar as this Government makes any decisions that stand, the policy is laid down to 1 980-8 1 . Beyond that there is no precise time-table, but we have the Treasurer's statement on the record that after 1 980-8 1 the price to the producers will be moved to 100 per cent of import parity as soon as possible. After that has been done there are two possibilities. Either the revenue which the Government collects from this tax will have been entirely passed over to the Australian producers or the Government will retain the levy for revenue purposes and Australian consumers could then expect a further massive increase in petroleum product prices, and for motor spirit an increase of the order of 20c a gallon. That is over and beyond general cost increases. 
The motive behind the major legislation which is yet to be introduced to the House- I am not talking about this legislation, because this is really consequential legislation- is to produce revenue. The Government has backed itself into a position because it has closed off so many options in the revenue production area. It has abandoned the resources tax. It has partially abandoned and will progressively completely abandon inheritance taxes. At enormous cost to the revenue, about $500m a year, it has provided an investment allowance which subsidises the replacement of humans with machines. It has partially abandoned the coal export levy and has given an undertaking to Utah Development Co. to abandon the levy totally as from 30 June 1 979. The reason that we have this impost is that the Government has offered so many bribes to its friends and to assorted vested interests that it is desperate for revenue. 
Various attempts have been made to rationalise the Government's policy on other grounds. All of these attempts are either spurious or are contradicted by other Government statements, or both. The first contradiction of the Government's present policy arises from the statement by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  on 1 6 August last in Parliament, when he said: 
. I have constantly argued that we should move gradually and predictably towards higher oil prices. 
On 7 November 1 977 in Parliament he said: 
There is no need, nor would it be desirable, Tor prices to move to world parity levels overnight. 
That was the Government's policy less than a year ago. According to that policy, there is no need, and it is undesirable, to move to full world parity levels overnight. The Government announced at the time a progressive time-table in which world parity pricing would be phased in. Why has the policy been repudiated? It has been repudiated because of the Government's desperate need for revenue as a result of its other financial mismanagement. The honourable member for Forrest in Western Australia,  Mr Drummond,  who has many farmers in his constituency, who are quite properly irate about the effects that this measure would have on them- I will quantify that later- made an incredible comment on the Budget which is quoted in the  Western Farmer and Grazier  of 3 1 August last. He said: 
. the only 'real negative' affecting farmers was the increase in fuel prices, but this was an inevitable measure if more drastic rises were to be avoided in the future. 
I fail to understand how more drastic rises in the future will be avoided by a movement to world parity now. It has just telescoped the previous time period in which world parity pricing would be introduced. The Minister for National Development,  Mr Newman,  attempted to put over a more absurd variant of the same theme when he attempted to justify the policy on the grounds that the new higher pricing would condition us to world parity pricing. In other words, we are to be conditioned to world parity pricing by having it thrust upon us overnight. I guess that if one takes that spartan view, one could justify murder on the grounds that it conditions people to accepting death. 
Another spurious argument used by various Government members in justification of the earlier decision to increase the producers' price of crude oil was that higher prices encourage further exploration. I will deal with that matter later. The point I want to deal with now is the claim that it would cause a much greater quantity of oil to be recovered from existing or known fields. It is undoubtedly true that the cost of extraction continues to rise as the field becomes exhausted and that if the price is altered it affects the cut-off point at which a producer will stop pumping oil out of the field. But the important element in this argument, of course, is what will be the quantitative effects of that price increase on the percentage of the total reserve which is economically extractable from a field? There might be some difference of opinion about that, but the National Energy Advisory Committee, the Government appointed expert committee on this subject, in the report entitled, 'Australia's Energy Resources: An Assessment' issued in December 1977 had this to say in relation to the higher producers ' prices: 
Price increases would also enable more oil and gas to be recovered from many known fields but again the increase in Australia 's recoverable resources would probably be a small percentage of the total. 
So Government rationalisation is shown to be substantially unjustified. On the question of new fields, it should not be necessary for me to make one point in Parliament again, but it is apparent from a couple of statements which I will cite shortly that it is necessary to do so. World parity pricing has applied for newly discovered fields ever since September 1975, when this was announced by the then Labor Government. I find it astounding- although there is an alternative view, but for the moment 1 will be charitable and say it is quite astounding- that senior oil company executives such as  Mr Froggatt  of Shell Australia Ltd were saying earlier this year that parity pricing for new discoveries was introduced in the 1977 Budget and that the chief geologist for West Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd was still saying the same thing in an article which was published this year. Unless one believes that these senior oil company executives are so ignorant that they do not know that world parity pricing unequivocally applied from September 1975 for new fields, I can only assume that some sort of conspiracy is afoot involving members of the Government and senior oil company executives to try to make the decision of the 1977 Budget to move the price for production from existing fields progressively to world parity more acceptable. We can take a choice between inexcusable ignorance on the part of the senior oil company executives or a conspiracy to mislead and deceive the public. 
Another rationalisation by the Government is that higher prices for crude oil and petroleum products will lead to conservation of those resources. The crucial factor here is the price elasticity of demand for petroleum products. It is well known from experience in Australia and in other countries that at least in high income countries the demand for petroleum products is highly price inelastic; even doubling the price of petroleum products does not have a very significant impact on the quantity sold. The  Australian Financial Review  took up this theme in its editorial yesterday when it showed that, notwithstanding the Government's public rhetoric about higher prices leading to conservation and therefore spinning out an exhaustible resource, the Government's own estimates of revenue from petrol and distillate excise show that the Government anticipates a 5 per cent increase in the volume of consumption in the coming financial year. Changes in the level of excise over the years make straight comparisons difficult. However, the figures in the Budget Papers show that the increase in revenue collected from the excise was 6 percent from 1974-75 to 1975-76, 4.18 percent from 1975-76 to 1976-77 and 12 per cent from 1976-77 to 1977-78. 
It is interesting to note from those same figures obtained from various Budget Papers that the Government last year had estimated that revenue from excise on petroleum products would be $849m; but in fact it was $867m. We must presume that the Government obviously underestimated excise collections. Since excise collections, once the rate has been set, are tied directly to the volume of sales, the Government obviously underestimated the volume of sales last year; in other words, it believed that the relatively heavy price increases in last year's Budget would affect the consumption of petroleum products. They do not appear to have done so. This year the Government, learning from that experience, I suppose, has forecast a 5 per cent increase in revenue from this item. Since the rate of excise has not been changed, the Government has forecast a 5 per cent increase in the volume of sales. How can such an expectation be reconciled with the belief stated in a different context that higher petroleum product prices will significantly reduce consumption? The alternative view to that is that the revenue figure has been deliberately overestimated. Given the Government's record in this area in last year's Budget and this year's Budget, I certainly would not rule that possibility out of consideration. In other words, this is another cooked, fraudulent figure. That is the alternative possibility. 
If the Government were really serious about conservation instead of just trying to rationalise a revenue necessitated policy- necessitated because of its previous fiscal mismanagement- it would not be playing around with 20 per cent increase in prices; it would do some or all of these things, or perhaps some other things: It would impose punitive taxes on fuel hungry cars. It would provide better public transport. In fact it has cut, even in money terms, the allocation for public transport. It would encourage or coerce State governments and those who have control of traffic flows to provide priority lanes for buses so that the buses get to the central business districts and the cars stay in queues for hours. It would not take the public long to work out that it was better to travel by bus. The Government would ban automatic transmissions, which increase fuel consumption by between 10 per cent and 15 per cent. It would drop emission controls. Those are some of the things which the Government could do if it were serious about conservation of petroleum products. Of course, the Government is not serious about this. 
The Government has no rational energy policy. Let us look at the economic effects of this decision in the broader context. It will add at least one per cent to inflation in the financial year. I find it rather amazing that so many simple minded people could have seen this Budget as an anti-inflationary Budget and been willing to accept, without question, the Government's assertion that it was such, when it contains measures like this which are quite unnecessary. The only sense in which this Budget is antiinflationary arises from the certainty that it will drive the economy deeper into depression. In no other sense can this Budget be regarded as antiinflationary. Certainly, this arbitrary revenue raising decision will add one per cent to the consumer price index. 
The decision, in the area of agriculture- an area in which I have specific responsibility these days- will add somewhere between $120m and $ 160 m to costs. The figure cannot be precise because neither the direct impact of the increase in the cost of crude to the refiners nor how much will be built on as the product moves along the marketing chain is known. The decision will reduce net farm income by some 6 per cent. Where is the National Country Party on this issue? It is working furiously for the abandonment of the resources tax which, according to the Prime Minister, was the direct reason for this measure having been brought in. The National Country Party has abandoned agriculture in favour of the international mining and petroleum conglomerates. 
I daresay that in about 10 minutes time we will hear a speech from the senator for Utah trying to justify this decision. 

 - Senator Collard, who today will be wearing his cap as senator for EssoBHP. Certainly the honourable senator does not represent agricultural interests. If he did he would not be supporting the Government's measure. 
Applications are already in the pipeline for a 5 per cent increase in air fares. This is particularly important in the most distant State of Western Australia and in the island State of Tasmania, which has no feasible alternative for passenger transport. Where will the Western Australian and Tasmanian senators be on this matter? A couple of weeks ago the Western Australian Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, was whining about the impact of this decision on the State Government. He said that in fuel costs alone it would add $4m to the expenditure of the Western Australian Government on its own vehicles. Typically, he tried to absolve himself from responsibility on the matter by saying that the decision was clearly taken by the CanberraSydneyMelbourne axis which, according to  Sir Charles,  fails to think through the consequences of its own decisions. As a person who enthusiastically led the campaign to abandon a resources tax which was, according to the Prime Minister, the direct cause of this decision being made,  Sir Charles  himself should have thought through the consequences of his own policies. 
The Labor Party is trenchantly opposed to this measure. To call it part of a package is highly misleading. The Government's whole policy on petroleum pricing is a hotchpotch legacy of a series of capricious decisions on tax concessions for the Government's friends, revenue demands, ideological prejudice and simple ignorance. 
I will comment very briefly on these two 
Bills. Firstly, I will deal with the Bounty (Books) Amendment Bill 1978 which continues the bounty assistance into 1979 pending consideration by the Industries Assistance Commission and its final report on the long term levels of assistance. The Opposition does not oppose that Bill or the Bounty (Agricultural Tractors) Amendment Bill 1978, although I would like to make some comments and to express a couple of reservations about it. 
The Bounty (Agricultural Tractors) Amendment Bill extends the bounty which formerly had been payable on tractors below 105 kilowatts- or about 150 engine horse power, in the language that is more commonly understood in agriculture- to tractors above 105 kilowatts in accordance with the recommendation by the IAC in its report of August 1977, even though it appears that at the time the IAC made that report it was ignorant of the fact that tractors in that power range were being made or at least fabricated within Australia. The long term objective as perceived by the IAC was a level of assistance equivalent to an effective protection rate of 25 per cent, to be provided by way of bounty instead of import tariff which is more common in Australian manufacturing industry. The amount of bounty payable varies with the horsepower of the tractors. The Schedule attached to the amending legislation shows that the maximum bounty payable per unit will be $3,480 for tractors with an engine capacity above 105 kilowatts. 
Clause 4 of the Bill- this is the question on which I invite the Minister to elaborate either in reply to the second reading debate or during consideration of the Bill in Committee- provides for adjustments to that basic bounty to be made in accordance with a factor which is governed by the movements in the Reserve Bank's index of imports of machinery other than electrical machinery. Neither the second reading speech nor the Bill itself has offered any explanation of the operation of that factor, other than to give the very brief summary which I have just stated. In particular I would like to know whether the Government envisages that the amount of bounty payable in the next 12 months will be close to the figure set out in the Schedule to the Bill and, if not, approximately what proportion of that figure the Government envisages being paid as a bounty. It is quite clear, of course, that given the pricing of these very large machines above 105 kilowatts- they range in price from a little below to above $50,000- the level of assistance falls well short of the 25 per cent effective rate of assistance. 
The bounty payable cuts off altogether for a machine with less than 55 per cent local content. That is one of the features of the Bill in relation to which I want to raise some doubts and express some reservations. Although the Industries Assistance Commission appeared to be unaware of it at the time of issuing its report, in fact tractors of this horsepower are made or fabricated by three small firms in Australia. One is located in Merredin in Western Australia very close to where I lived, another in Victoria and another in New South Wales. It appears to be uncertain whether any of these firms will qualify for the bounty under the existing arrangements, because two of them produce machines of less than 55 per cent local content. There seems to be some doubt about whether the third one has the 55 per cent local content required to attract any level of bounty. Of course, at 55 per cent content the full bounty is not payable. It is phased out as the local content falls from 100 per cent to 55 per cent and it ceases altogether at 5 5 per cent. 
It is believed that International Harvester Australia Limited and Chamberlain John Deere Pty Ltd may start manufacturing in Australia units of that horsepower within the next few years. Those units will have something above 55 per cent local content. The matter on which I wish to express some reservations is this 55 per cent local content. The small firms which are already producing tractors of this horsepower are quite obviously doing so in an economically efficient way. They are not in receipt of any tariff protection or any bounty protection. So it is selfevident that they are efficient. One of the reasons they are efficient is that their local content is below 55 per cent. Because the size of the Australian market is so limited it is not conceivable that engines for these machines could be manufactured efficiently in Australia in the economic sense because the production run would not be long enough. The same situation applies to a number of other components parts for these very large machines. So it seems at least possible that one of the consequences of a protection policy of this type, which incorporates a local content requirement and a cut-off point, could be to drive out of business the most efficient manufacturers in this country to the advantage of some other firms which are less efficient but which, because their local content component is different, will qualify for the government subsidy. 
In general- I note that the Labor Party spokesman in this area,  Mr Hurford,  expressed this view in the House of Representatives as well- we favour the payment of bounties as against import tariffs. We do so, firstly, because it is more obvious to everyone precisely what is being done. It is a move towards open government, if you like. It does, of course, carry some political ramifications which are not likely to be attractive to government. For example, tariffs, being a hidden tax, are not noticed and not recorded in any official publications, but if governments had to impose enough taxation to provide by way of bounty assistance of the same magnitude it would lead to an increase in personal taxation, if the bounty were to be funded entirely from that source, of the order of 40 per cent or 45 per cent. Governments would be reluctant to accept the political odium which would be attached to a tax increase of that magnitude. In particular, of course, the idea of paying bounties instead of providing protection in other ways, such as by way of tariff, would seem to be particularly unattractive to the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who seems to think that if expenditure is not recorded in government accounts then it does not happen; as long as it is not written down in government accounts there is no need to worry about it. 
My reservations already expressed about the possible effects of a cut-off point at 55 per cent of local content would be transformed from a possibility into a grave danger if, as is being rumoured, the Government proceeds with the proposition which it first received from the Australian Industries Development Association, namely, that an investment allowance should be continued at the rate of 40 per cent for investment in plant and machinery which has more than 65 per cent local Australian content. That is a highly dangerous proposition, particularly for the local manufacturers of these machines. If such a proposition were to be introduced, the three existing small manufacturers would be very heavily discriminated against. It would be the equivalent of a retail price subsidy of almost 10 per cent for the competing imported or other Australian machines- a subsidy which would not be available to these existing and efficient Australian manufacturers. I suggest, while we are dealing with these large machines, that a low local content and economic efficiency are acceptable. Because the production runs are so small it is just not feasible for engines and other major components for these units to be produced economically in Australia. 
I suspect that that proposition will be adopted by the Government; it is likely to find favour with the Prime Minister because it combines higher protection with a tax dodge. They are  ideaswhichobviouslyconsistentlyfindfavour  with the Prime Minister. If on top of the discrimination against these small firms because of the local content components under the Bounty (Agricultural Tractors) Act we have further discrimination because of manipulation of the taxation Act so that it provides a further protective device, I fear that the consequence will be that firms such as Phillips in Merredin and the other two firms in New South Wales and Victoria, which obviously are efficient manufacturers because they are competing in an open market, will not have a future. They will not be able to meet the unfair competition which will be thrust upon them because of government manipulation of the market. 
I want to speak only very briefly on the first reading of this Bill tonight as a result of a trip to the Pilbara in the north-west of Western Australia which I and some other members of the Parliamentary Labor Party Resources Committee made last week. The matter I raise concerns the quality of Australian Broadcasting Commission television programs available in that area and particularly the dearth or, as some people would claim, the non-existence of decent films on ABC television. I stress that in this area the quality of ABC television and radio is particularly important because there is no commercial television. So, while the ABC continues a policy of rarely, if ever, showing a decent film, people in areas such as the Pilbara do not have any alternative and do not see any decent films on television. Moreover, their radio coverage is equally restricted. A commercial radio station recently has begun transmitting from Port Hedland. It has a limited effective range and does not reach the adjoining towns of Karratha, Dampier and so on, unless sophisticated radio receiving equipment is used. These people have no television alternative to the ABC and their radio options are very limited. 
A significant number of these people are shift workers. An unusually high proportion of them are single men living in single men's quarters. Those who work on night shifts are home in the day time and, as they put it, all they can see in the day time is Sesame Street or the tenth repeat of some program which is 20 years old and in some instances was not much good at its original viewing. These people- I refer to the shift workers in particular- who have very limited opportunities for any sort of entertainment in the area are faced with the alternatives of drifting off down to the pub or watching ABC television. Most of the time they quickly come to the conclusion that ABC television is not worth watching. 
There is nothing new about the complaint concerning the quality and the quantity of films shown on ABC television. I raised this matter at a meeting of the Western Australian ABC Advisory Committee- a body of which I am a member, albeit not a particularly active member because of other commitments- a few months ago. It was acknowledged by the management people present that the complaint about the quality and quantity of films shown on ABC television was justified. I was told that the reason for this was quite simple: It is expensive to procure television rights for films and the ABC budget did not permit the rights for many films to be acquired during the year. That could lead to a couple of questions. Firstly, it could lead to a question about the overall Government priorities and the adequacy or otherwise of funding for the ABC. It could also lead to questions about the priorities within the ABC itself and whether some of its rather esoteric activities ought to be funded to the extent to which they are, at the expense of providing some decent film viewing for people in the remote or more isolated areas of Australia who do not have access to any other type of television. I do not think we need worry too much about people in the cities. They can watch the commercial channels if they want to see a decent film. They can find probably two or three a week. But the people in the more isolated communities do not have that option. 
The suggestion has been made that we should investigate the possibility of the ABC procuring or endeavouring to procure rights for films to be shown in country areas only. We know that this is technically feasible. In some years, at least in Western Australia and probably in some other States, the Australian Broadcasting Commission has telecast league football matches live to the country areas but not to the cities. That stipulation, of course, is imposed by the football league authorities which will not allow matches to be telecast live in the metropolitan areas. Obviously, this is technically feasible. There are no great, if any, technical difficulties in the ABC restricting particular programs to country areas. 
I am not sure what saving would accrue to the ABC in royalty rights if it purchased the right to show films only in non-metropolitan areas, but I think it is a matter that certainly should be investigated. I intend to raise it myself directly with the West Australian management at the next meeting of the Advisory Committee; but, given that the meeting will not be held for some time and that other commitments may preclude my attending anyway, I have decided to raise the matter tonight in the hope that the ABC management will at least investigate the possibility of securing film rights at lower cost for telecasting in non-metropolitan areas and also will have another look at what I and, I think, most other people on both sides of the House clearly agree is the obligation of the ABC to provide decent television viewing to people in the non-metropolitan areas who do not have the option of switching to another channel. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the present freight charge per tonne paid by the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission on rock phosphate shipped to major Australian ports in Australian flag vessels. 
What is the freight charge on rock phosphate shipped to the same ports in non-Australian vessels. 
) In the most recent year for which figures are available, how many tonnes were shipped to Australian destinations in: (a) Australian flag vessels: and (b) other vessels. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
What are the criteria which, according to recent statements by the Minister, the Government expects the Primary Industry Bank to achieve. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) Has India imposed a tariff duty or import quota, or both, on the import of greasy wool into that country. 
If a duty or import quota has been imposed: (a) what is the rate of duty or the size of the quota or both; and (b) from what date did the tariff or quota, or both, apply. 
On what date was the Australian Government informed of the decision, and from whom was the information received. 
What were the reasons for the introduction of the quota or the tariff. 
Does it apply to both greasy and processed wool; if not, to which wool does it apply. 
What action has the Australian Government taken, or does it propose to take, to have the tariff duty or the quota removed or reduced. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the Liberal Party senators' craven acceptance of the dictates of the member for Wannon, when the latter by fiat gave them their new leader and  deputy,  can the Leader of the Government in the Senate assure the Senate that it will hear no more cant or humbug from Liberal senators about States' rights or their sturdy independence? 
If the Government is convinced that the pricing arrangements would not give imported refined petroleum products any price advantage over Australian refined products- if that were so the problem would not arise, as the Minister said- can we assume that at least at this stage the Government would have no objection to the importing of refined petroleum products? 
I gather that  Senator Tate  wants to ask questions about the same matter that I want to follow up. I refer the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to sub-clause (2) of clause 3 which states: 
The Minister for National Development shall, from time to time, determine, for the purposes of section ... the price that is the import parity price . . . 
The key phrase, as far as the purpose of my question is concerned, and I assume, also  Senator Tate's  question, is the 'import parity price'. Given the references by the Minister in his reply to the second reading debate to true market prices and to the Government's intention to apply true market prices, I think this is the crucial phrase in the Bill. I guess that the Government has in mind doing something like adding to the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries posted price on crude oil the freight component, and that would be equated with the import parity price. There are, however, disturbing indications that the posted price of crude oil internationally is something like the Prices Justification Tribunal price of petrol in Australia, that is, a sort of fictional concept which has no direct application to reality. In other words, all sorts of under-the-table discounts are available at least on some occasions and from some suppliers of crude oil. I would like to know, if it is possible, the method that the Minister for National Development will use to determine what the import parity price is, given that there are substantial reasons to believe that the posted price is to some extent a fictional price or certainly is not the price which is actually paid. 
I wish to follow  Senator Tate's  line of questioning. I am willing to accept the good intentions of the Government and the Minister to establish a true market price, but  Senator Tate  's question has drawn attention to some of the complexities involved in establishing this price and to what some people would consider to be the impossibility of establishing with certainty what the real commercial price is. That leads me to ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  whether the Government has any policy on the importation of refined petroleum products. I shall give a hypothetical example. Let us suppose that the import parity price was above the true market price but because of all the complications involved the Minister and the Government had not been able to establish this with any certainty. We would then expect that independent operators, such as XL Petroleum Pty Ltd, importing refined petroleum products would be able to undercut Australian refined petroleum products produced from crude oil fed in at prices above the true commercial price. One market mechanism which ought to help to ensure that the import parity price is, in fact, the real price would be to allow independent operators to import refined petroleum products. Has the Government considered this matter? What will be its attitude towards importing refined petroleum products after all these new arrangements have become operative? 
I appreciate the Minister's difficulty in that regard but he now has raised another matter I want to follow. If I heard him correctly, he stated that any potential importer would be required to take a proportion of Australian crude. I want to check whether that will be the position. If so, why should an importer be required to take a proportion of Australian crude, given that it will now be priced at world parity? Would this not have the effect of freezing out of the market any importer who did not have refining facilities within Australia or an arrangement with some other company which did have refining facilities within Australia? 
That being the case, the would-be importer of refined petroleum products would be required to take an allocation of Australian crude. I want to place on the record that if that is so there is then no market mechanism to keep the pricing honest. There would be no market mechanism to prevent import parity pricing being written up above the true commercial price and consequently Australian consumers would be overcharged in terms of true world parity for petroleum products produced from both domestic crude and imported crude. There would be no market mechanism to prevent them from being overcharged for both. The only protection would be the ability of the Minister and the Government to determine what is in fact world parity price. 
Still on the matter of import parity pricing, I want to make it quite clear that my questions about potential importers referred to importers of refined petrol. I want reassurance that that was accurately understood. If it was and if the situation is that a potential importer of petrol would have to take an allocation of Australian crude oil, does the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  agree that unless such a potential importer could arrange to have that Australian crude oil refined in Australia by one of the few companies that have refining facilities it would have to be exported to somewhere else, which obviously would be expensive, or it would have to be just dumped. Will these marketing arrangements not protect the oligopolistic distribution and marketing system which is controlled by those few companies which have refining facilities in Australia? If the objective of the Government's policy is to allow the market forces to operate, why will the Government not allow the market forces to operate by abolishing this obligation on potential importers of petrol to take an allocation of Australian crude oil? 
I shall not inconvenience other honourable senators by continuing my speech beyond the suspension of the sittings for dinner. In fact I intend to terminate it before then. The Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  has outlined the factual content of the Pig Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill in his second reading speech. The present position is that the legislation allows for the collection of a levy of 10c per head for research and 5c for promotion. But the legislation as it will be amended by this Bill will allow for a levy of 20c for each purpose. There is no obligation for the maximum levy to be imposed. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. Its provisions have been recommended by the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation. The moneys raised from these levies will be paid into a trust account under the Pig Industry Research Act. Funds withdrawn from that account will be matched on a $1 for $1 basis by the Government. 
A joke has been passed around Parliament House recently arising from the nickname of a particular senator. The joke is in the form of a question asking whether as a result of events of 7 August the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  would be kicking 40c into the bin under this legislation. I am not sure what is the answer to that. It is not my intention unduly to delay the Senate but for those who have a serious interest in not only this Bill but also the whole subject of the pig industry I wish to draw the attention of honourable senators to, and particularly commend, the detailed and highly competent speech delivered in the House of Representatives on 17 August by my colleague,  Mr John  Brown, the honourable member for Parramatta. Apart from having had some experience of pig consumption, slaughtering, butchering and the sale of pig meats in the industry for some years, he was a member of the New South Wales Pig Industry Research Committee. In his speech in the second reading debate, he displayed a great depth of knowledge of this industry which I have no doubt surprised the members of the National Country Party and particularly the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  who followed him in the debate and endeavoured to display a breadth and depth of knowledge comparable to that displayed by  Mr John  Brown- a task which, if I may say so, he failed badly. 
There is a curious aspect relevant to the history of this legislation to which my colleague,  Mr John  Brown, drew attention in the House of Representatives. I think it is important enough to be worth repeating. When similar legislation was before the House in April of 1975, the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who I think at the time was the Opposition spokesman on primary industry, seemed to be under the impression that the contributions paid into this fund by the industry were not matched by an equal contribution from the Government as is the case with most levies struck in this manner for the purposes of funding research in agricultural matters. He made this rather curious statement: 
When we are re-elected to office we, unlike the Government, will sympathetically consider propositions advanced by industry groups and ensure that if they enter into such proposals - 
That is, levy proposals to establish research funds- 
. they will not be left to carry the burden of the responsibility for research and promotion. 
I do not know what led the present Minister to believe at that time that it was not the case that Governments were not making a matching contribution. He continued in carping style, I suppose, to criticise the existing Committee on the grounds that there was a government representative on it. He said: 
I personally find it dashed hard to understand why there should be a government representative if the Government is not going to provide money to this Committee. Indeed, the Committee which is being constituted to carry on promotion will be administering funds being provided by the industry. Yet apparently it is to be so constituted that the Government will be in a position, through its exercise of power on the Committee, to direct to a degree where that money is to be spent. If the Government is going to take that sort of stance, I think it has a responsibility to contribute too. 
That is quite apart from the fact that it was contributing. I note for the record that the government representation on this Committee will not be changed as a result of this Bill which has been introduced by the present Minister for Primary Industry in spite of his remarks of  2'A  years ago. Obviously there are some elements in the attitude of this Government as expressed then and now by the Minister for Primary Industry in common with pre-election commitments to tax cuts and post election tax increases; with preelection promises to provide funds at concessional rates of interest for agriculture; with unequivocal assurances' given in 1974 again by the present Minister for Primary Industry that the nitrogen bounty would be maintained at $80 a ton although the Government now has legislation before the House to reduce the subsidy from $60, to which it reduced the bounty a couple of years ago, to $40. So the attitude of the Minister on this legislation has been consistent with the inconsistency displayed by this Government on a range of matters. We of the Opposition do not oppose the Bill. I think it would be more accurate to say that we actually support the measure. It has the approval of, and indeed was instigated at the request of, the industry, and we do not intend to delay its passage unduly. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
When will the 1976-77 Annual Report of the Australian Wool Corporation be tabled. 
What is the reason for the delay in its release. 
When will the 1977-78 report be tabled. 
I have been advised subsequently that because of the constitutional limitations on amendments to financial Bills- I wondered previously whether this was the case- it is probable that an amendment to delete clause 4 would not be in order because it would entail the expenditure of more money. We envisage moving that clause 4 be deleted. I am advised that it would be in order to move, as an amendment in consideration of the Bill as a whole, that the House of Representatives be requested to delete clause 4 from the Bill. If such a course is acceptable I will move accordingly. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I understand that one component said by the Government to be an important component of its anti-inflation strategy is opposition to what the Government calls 'excessive wage rises'. Does the Government have a policy opposing excessive profits from land racketeering by people who act in collusion with people who control land use and therefore, to a substantial degree, the price of land. If so, what is that policy? If not, will the Government develop such a policy? Can the Government guarantee that in future the Minister for Industry and Commerce will abide by such a policy? 
The purpose of this Bill is to extend the bounty on nitrogenous fertilisers for the calendar year 1979, but at a significantly lower rate than has prevailed in the past. Under the provisions of the Bill the rate will be reduced from $60 a tonne nitrogen content to $40 a tonne. The Bill was passed by the House of Representatives last Thursday. Having looked through the House of Representatives  Hansard  this afternoon I must comment on a statement which was made by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  who, whilst never being noted for his perspicacity or mastery of logic, excelled himself when he claimed that this Bill would provide some assistance to Australian sugar growers. He said that because it would increase the growers' costs it would help the sugar industry to establish a case for an increase in the price of sugar. That was an extraordinary rationale for the introduction of the Bill.  His  actual words were: 
They - 
That is the sugar producers-   . . have a legitimate case to put to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
That is, a case for a price increase. He continued: 
Their case will be aided by the Bill before the House tonight. In fact, it will help them considerably because it represents an added cost that I am sure the sugar industry will not forget when it presents a case to the IAC. 
I have seen members of the Government perform some extraordinary contortions in an attempt to justify the things that they have done and the contradictions that they have embraced from time to time, but I think the prize ought to go to the honourable member for Wakefield for that contribution. 
Astute observers of the Australian political scene have noted for some time that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is a very subjective man. Brought down in the Budget was the so-called newsboys' tax under which the parents of a dependent child who received an income above a stipulated level would be ineligible for a family allowance. That provision was put in by  Mr Fraser  and those other Government members whose perceptions of reality, when considering the question of whether dependent children should have incomes, were . closely aligned to their own direct knowledge of reality. It would not occur to a person like the Prime Minister that there are children in Australia who earn pocket money. Their perception of reality and the incomes of dependent children is of course related to children who receive income from family trusts set up for the purpose of evading taxation. But instead of doing the logical thing and tightening up on the tax laws on family trusts which have enabled people such as the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and no doubt virtually all the senior Ministers of this Government to evade taxation, they thought it would be a better idea to phase out family allowances for dependent children who have incomes. A tightening up of the laws on family trusts would have affected them. There was more in it for them. 
Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill. I cannot really relate what the honourable senator is saying to the subject of the Bill. Could we invite him to be more relevant? 
I would like to speak to the point of order,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I am about to come to the point. My remarks are relevant because the subjectivity of the Prime Minister is the prime factor responsible for this Bill being introduced. The Government decided that instead of doing the logical thing and tightening up the provisions which enable people to dodge taxes through family trusts, and because that taxdodging potential provides more money than the family allowance for the Prime Minister and others, they decided to knock off the family allowance instead of tightening up on the taxation laws. In this Bill we have another example of the Prime Minister's subjectivity and of his total dominance of this Government. I compare the policy of the Government on the superphosphate bounty to its policy on the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. Last year legislation was passed to continue the payment of a superphosphate bounty at the level which had prevailed for five years since 1969. By contrast, since this Government came into power it has extended the nitrogen bounty on a year only basis and has progressively reduced the amount of bounty from the original figure of almost $79 a tonne to the figure of $40 a tonne which will prevail if this legislation is passed. 
The key to that highly inconsistent behaviour can be found once again in the Prime Minister's subjectivity. He uses superphosphate down on Nareen. In fact, he uses at least 400 tonnes a year of superphosphate at Nareen. The Prime Minister receives from the superphosphate bounty a personal benefit of something in excess of $5,000. He does not use nitrogen down at Nareen. Because of this man's subjectivity and his dominance of the Government we find that the superphosphate bounty not only is continued at the pre-existing rate but also is enacted for five years and that the nitrogen bounty is reduced and continued on a year by year basis only. No doubt honourable senators from Queensland, including  Senator Maunsell  who will be following me in this debate and who no doubt purports to speak for the sugar producers of that State, will find some way of rationalising that inconsistency and contradiction, some way of rationalising their craven support for this legislation. This Bill also demonstrates that the Prime Minister, among the Ministers, has no monopoly of the double standard. On 8 May 1974, which it will be recalled was during the 1974 election campaign, the Australian Country Party secretariat issued a Press statement on behalf of the then shadow Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Sinclair,  who at the time was in Mackay, a well-known sugar growing area. Quite falsely, the then shadow Minister for Agriculture, now the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  asserted that the Labor Government, if re-elected, would immediately cancel the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. There was of course absolutely no evidence to support that assertion. The Labor Government was re-elected and that did not happen. But he continued: 
I can give an unqualified assurance on behalf of the Country Party, that in Government with the Liberal Party, we will restore the bounty on superphosphate and ensure that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty continues. 
So the Prime Minister, certainly among Ministers of this Government, has no monopoly of the double standard. For the benefit of among others, the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  whose electorate incorporates the Mackay area and some sections of the rural Press which appear to be victims of false assertions by assorted members of the non-Labor parties, I want to set the record straight on the history of this matter. At no stage did the Labor Party during its period of government move to reduce the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. So, whatever the justification or otherwise for this or any other bounty may be, the Labor Party has been consistent on this issue. That is something which certainly cannot be said for the non-Labor parties. I draw the attention of those people who doubt that to the fine print on the bottom of the first page of the Bill, which refers to the principal Act, which is Act No. 78 of 1966, as amended. There are various amendments, but the one that is relevant is Act No. 20 of 1974, under which the then Labor Government extended the payment of the bounty at the pre-existing rate for the calendar year 1975. 
I would like to say something about the most pertinent facts relating to the consumption of nitrogenous fertiliser in Australia and the Industries Assistance Commission report of 1975. The IAC report recommended that the bounty, which was then payable at just under $79 per tonne of nitrogen content- originally it had been $80 for an imperial ton, and there is about 2 per cent less in a tonne- be phased out over four years in virtually equal stages from $60 to $40 to $20 to zero. As I mentioned, the Labor Government did not act on that recommendation. In 1 976 the by then Liberal-National Country Party Government implemented the first stage and reduced the bounty to $60 a tonne. In 1977 the LiberalCountry Party Government extended the bounty for the calendar year 1978 at $60 a tonne. Now it has introduced this legislation to reduce it for the calendar year 1979 to $40 a tonne. 
The table attached to the IAC report- I do not expect that the pattern of consumption will have changed drastically since- shows the usage of nitrogen fertiliser on various crops or for various end uses in 1974. It reveals that the cereal crops, the most important consumers of nitrogenous fertilisers, used 37.5 per cent of the total, sugar used a bit over 30 per cent, pastures used about 20 per cent, vegetables used about 6 per cent, and fruit and vine crops used about 5 per cent. Two points arising from that need to be highlighted. First of all, cereal crops are the major consumers. Sugar runs a close second, but there are eight to ten times as many cereal growers as there are sugar growers. I do not put a precise figure on that because there is no completely objective definition or no general agreement on what constitutes a wheat grower or a sugar grower, but there are eight to ten times as many grain producers as there are sugar producers. Although the whole industry consumption is lower for the grain industry, usage per farm is five to six times higher for sugar producers than it is for grain producers. So in that sense the cost of nitrogen fertiliser is of particular importance to the sugar industry. 
As a result of other Government policy decisions on the pricing of Australian crude oil it is probable, or indeed inevitable, that there will be an increase in the price of nitrogenous fertilisers quite independently of any changes in the level of bounty. At this stage we do not know, and nobody knows, precisely how the higher cost of Australian crude oil which will follow from the Government's Budget decision to increase the levy will be distributed among the end users of petroleum products. If it is to be distributed on a pro rata basis, the price of urea, the most commonly used nitrogenous fertiliser, will increase by between $14 and $15 a tonne. If this piece of legislation is carried and the bounty is reduced to $40 a tonne, then the price of urea will be pushed up another $9.20 a tonne, so that sugar producers and other consumers of urea are facing a price increase of the order of $24 a tonne for urea and pro rata increases for other nitrogenous fertilisers, depending on the amount of nitrogen they contain. The Government has made one mistake by adopting a crude oil policy which in the judgment of the Labor Party is wholly unnecessary. Indeed it has been forced upon the Government by its own folly in dropping the resources tax. So at the very time when consumers of nitrogenous fertilisers are already faced with a substantial increase in nitrogen fertiliser prices, the Government proposes to compound the damage that policy will do to nitrogen consumers by reducing the bounty 
It is the Opposition's intention to oppose clause 4 during the Committee stage. We will be seeking leave to defer consideration of clause 2, which is related to clause 4, until clause 4 has been dealt with. I trust that the Committee of the Whole will accommodate the Opposition in that request. We will be doing that, firstly, because we do not believe that this is an appropriate time to be reducing this bounty and, secondly, to give the Queensland senators in particular, especially the Queensland Country Party senators, the opportunity to demonstrate whether they are mindful of the interests of the Queensland sugar industry and whether they will support us in our opposition to clause 4 of the Bill. 

That the House of Representatives be requested to delete clause 4 from the Bill. 
I apologise for not having submitted my amendment previously. I shall not speak at any length to the amendment. The actual form of it has been dictated by Standing Orders and constitutional requirements. The purpose of the amendment remains the same. It gives senators from Queensland in particular, given the importance of this subsidy to the Queensland sugar industry and the fact that Queensland consumes about one-half of the total amount of nitrogenous fertiliser used in this country, the opportunity to endeavour to maintain the bounty at its existing level of $60 per tonne of nitrogenous fertiliser. If clause 4, which seeks to amend section 10 of the principal Act by omitting '$60' and substituting $40', were omitted, section 10 of the principal Act would remain as is and the bounty would be payable at the rate of $60 per tonne. Should such a request be agreed to I would accept that there would be some consequential need to make amendments to clause 2(2) of the Bill which states: 
Section 4 shall come into operation on 1 January 1 979. 
I think the situation could be coped with easily if the motion I have moved is carried by the Senate and if it is accepted by the House of Representatives. I think one would have to be very realistic and underline very heavily both of those 'ifs' I think the reason for taking this action has been explained adequately in the second reading debate. I do not propose to repeat the arguments now. 

 -Mr President, I think it would be fair to ask why this matter is being discussed in the Senate when the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is in the House of Representatives. There are a number of answers to that question. Firstly, the time-table of the House of Representatives and the weekly scandals concerning other Ministers which have been cropping up have made it very difficult to find time to discuss the matter there. Secondly, of course, although the Minister for Primary Industry is in the House of Representatives I, as the Opposition spokesman on agricultural matters, am in the Senate. I could not win a seat in the House of Representatives, so I settled for the Senate. Therefore I am not confronting the Minister in the House of Representatives today, much as I would like to do so. 
On 5 July the Minister for Primary Industry announced that the Government would permit the export of up to 300 rams in the 12 months commencing 24 July. On 14 September he stated in Parliament that bans would continue on the export of merino ewes or ram semen. So the Government has resurrected the policy which it implemented in the 1969-72 period. Indeed, its intention to do so had been evident for some time. The Government's policy and the various apologia for it are a hotchpotch of contradiction, fraudulent argument, stupid assumption and very loose logic. The only consistent theme which emerges is that the Government will allow ram exports because a handful of politically influential large stud breeders want it to allow ram exports. Whatever contributions these studs may have made to the wool industry in the distant past, in recent times they have parasitised and retarded it. The Minister now meekly complies with their wishes, regardless of the wishes of, or the consequences for, the nation's 90,000 wool growers. 
The fundamental question which determines whether ram exports will harm the Australian wool industry is the genetic quality of Australian merinos relative to merinos overseas. If Australian merinos are genetically superior as wool producers, there is no doubt that access to their genes will induce an increase in world wool production and a fall in world wool prices. The technical reality is that nobody knows for certain whether Australian merinos are superior to overseas merinos because this has never been objectively tested. If our merinos were equal to those overseas, a gene interchange would not affect the level of world production and would have no consequences one way or the other. If that were the case, and were known to be the case, a policy permitting exports could be justified. However, that option has been closed unequivocally by the Minister himself in asserting on 27 July: 
Genetically, the Australian merino is still way ahead of merinos anywhere else in the world. 
He reasserted that belief last Thursday in answer to a question by  Mr Hayden  in the House of Representatives. In doing that, he admitted tacitly an intention to sabotage the Australian wool industry by surrendering its comparative advantage, or what could be called its patent rights to overseas competitors. 
Given that  Mr Sinclair's  belief coincides exactly with that expressed by the Australian Workers Union, and by a great number of wool growers, and the AWU having decided, as a result of that belief, and quite logically, to try to protect the wool industry by stopping exports, a possible alternative interpretation of  Mr Sinclair's  actions is that he is acting as an agent provocateur who hopes to gain political advantage by fomenting industrial conflict- and it would not be the first time that Ministers of this Government had tried to do that. 
We should, however, be grateful to the Minister for stating explicitly the Government's belief on this crucial aspect of the question. Prior to 27 July, both this and previous Liberal and Country Party governments had advanced the proposition that Australian merinos, being derived from a gene pool which still exists around the world, could not be superior to other merinos. Simultaneously, they advanced the mutually exclusive proposition that Australian merinos were superior. Now, at least, they have come down on one side and said that they are superior, vastly superior. 
The more obvious contradiction, which survives still in the Government's policy, is the proposition that ram exports should be allowed but that ewe and semen exports should not. Regardless of what one believes about the relative genetic quality of Australian merinos, it is impossible to justify a policy which says: It is right to export rams; it is wrong to export semen and ewes. Nobody has yet attempted to justify that policy, even though it is the Government's policy. 
In a Press release of 5 July, the Minister gave multiple reasons for the Government's decision. The first was that the move had- and I use his words- 'widespread industry support.' The weakness in that argument is that a two-question referendum conducted in 1973 had demonstrated that at least 58 per cent of those wool growers who voted had voted against any form of exportation. There were complications in that referendum because two different questions were asked but in no way could it be argued that less than 58 per cent of the wool growers who voted were opposed to any exportation at all. That contradicted the Minister's claim that it had widespread industry support. 
No less than 58 per cent, no matter how one interprets it, voted against any exports at all. 
I have already said that there are alternative explanations. I will not be sidetracked from exposing the fraudulent arguments that have been put forward by this Government in an attempt to rationalise an unjustifiable policy. To get around the awkward fact that the Government's policy had been clearly rejected by the growers only five years previously the Minister said that less than 50 per cent of the wool growers voted; therefore, less than one in four voted against exports; therefore, the industry approved of his policy. For that shonky argument he was properly attacked by 
Malcolm Mackerras who, I understand, is a member of the Liberal Party, in the  Bulletin  of 8 August.  Mr Mackerras  said that  Mr Sinclair  had provided: 
. a classic example of how a politician can be specious in the interpretation of voting results. 
We will probably get some more specious examples when Government members try to defend the policy after I have finished speaking.  Mr Mackerras  then referred to: 
. the way in which Primary Industry Minister Ian Sinclair has been misrepresenting the 1973 referendum result. 
I predict that we will hear it misrepresented again this afternoon. That broadside from  Mr Mackerras  curbed even  Mr Sinclair's  audacity. In reply to  Mr Hayden  last Thursday- the question can be found on page 1003 of the House of Representatives  Hansard-  Mr Sinclair  did not mention his previous specious interpretation. He admitted that the decision, like the Labor Government's decision to introduce a levy and a reserve price in 1974, was taken: 
. against the background of earlier referendums which had recommended that there be no such scheme. 
So  Mr Sinclair  has recanted since 5 July. The referendum relevant to the 1974 decision to introduce a reserve price was held long before- in 1965. In any case, I and, I think, my Party believe that referendums on questions such as this can and even should be overruled by elected governments if, as in 1974, there is a compelling reason and a logical argument to justify such government action. This Government has no compelling reason and no logical argument. The Minister's second excuse in his Press statement of 5 July was that this was a trial export which: 
. would enable a reasonable assessment to be made of . . . the effects on the Australian wool industry as a whole. 
That claim is absurd on either of two grounds. Firstly, no such assessment is technically feasible. Secondly, even if it were how would any damage done by allowing exports be corrected? Would it be corrected by retrospectively abolishing the birth of the progeny of Australian merino rams? Is that what the Government proposes? The Minister's third excuse was that: 
. it was essential to keep the studs viable - 
That is, exports were essential to keep the studs viable. He returned to this theme with more enthusiasm last Thursday when he claimed that the move would be of assistance to the major studs which have been trying to maintain their level and quality of production. He also said:  . . if they - 
That is the studs-  can get more for their rams there is a better chance of those major studs continuing to produce that basic genetic material which is so important in the overall quality of the Australian merino. 
In those passages the Minister revealed two things, both of which are alarming when found in a Minister for Primary Industry. The first was his subservience to the parent studs and their lackeys in the Australian Wool Growers and Graziers Council and the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
Yes, lackeys. The second revelation was his ignorance of merino genetics, of the several decades of experimental breeding at Cunnamulla and Trangie, of logic and of wool production in general. The plain fact is that the genetic quality of any merino flock will automatically maintain itself. No studs and no selection for breeding are required. Under random breeding conditions- that is, when they are run as wild sheep- there will be no change in wool quality or quantity even in the long term. 
It is not completely untrue. Reproductive performance will automatically improve. 
If  Senator Young  does not understand that he does not understand arithmetic, but that would not be news to anyone in the Senate. Logic determines that no genetic change in wool quality or quantity can occur under random breeding- and I ask  Senator Thomas  to pay particular attention to this - unless there is a correlation between those attributes and reproductive performance. That is a mathematical tautology, too. Decades of measurement and experimental breeding have shown that no such correlation exists, with one minor exception which for the purposes of this exercise can be ignored- the association between skin wrinkle, high greasy wool production and infertility. 
The experimental flocks at Cunnamulla and Trangie have produced clear evidence that mass selection of breeders by objective production measurement will provide genetic gains in wool production in excess of one per cent a year. If the parent studs, which for four decades have provided 90 per cent of the merino rams mated in Australia, had matched that rate of genetic improvement the national wool cut per head would have shown a similar improvement. The national wool cut has failed to show that rate of improvement. The hierarchical system based on parent studs, the preservation of which has been conceded by  Mr Sinclair  to be his primary objective in this policy, has transmitted genetic gains of, at the most, 0.3 per cent a year, or less than onethird of that which can be achieved by mass selection within closed flocks. The hierarchical structure has not only failed the wool industry but also has become an obstacle to progress, a liability. Recognition of that reality entails rejection of the sheep industry's mythology and its conventional wisdom. 
The fourth and final excuse for Government policy in the Minister's statement of 5 July was an implicit re-endorsement of a fallacy originally concocted in the mid-1960s by the International Wool Secretariat 's economic quacks- the fallacy that higher wool production, induced by worldwide distribution of superior Australian merino genes, would induce higher wool prices. That fallacy was obliquely restated by the Minister on 5 July when he said: 
Unless world wool supplies of the type needed were maintained, there was a very real danger that manufacturers could turn to other fibres. 
Significantly,  Mr Sinclair-  or at least his advisers- are astute enough to avoid explicitly pinning his and the Government's case, as the previous Liberal-Country Party Government did, on the ludicrous notion that more wool production means higher prices. Lest his supporters who will speak after me are slower learners than he, it is necessary to debunk this argument. The primary error in this argument is the belief that wool prices are determined by wool's share of the total textile market and that there is a positive correlation between the price of wool and wool's precentage share of the market. If any correlation exists, it is more likely to be negative. 
I will take the example, cited in the Minister's Press release of the textile factory which has been forced to use synthetic fibres because wool is physically unavailable. The mill which drops wool will, by definition, be the weakest buyer. It will be the mill willing or able to pay only the lowest price. In the pre-existing sitution all the other mills have been willing to pay a higher price. They did not have to pay the higher price because, as in any competitive market, the price is set by the weakest buyer and the weakest seller. When the weakest buyer and the weakest seller- that is, the one who has no wool to sell because it is not available- drop out of the market, all the other buyers must then pay a higher price. The more buyers who are forced to drop out of the market because of wool's physical nonavailability, the higher the price will be. It is a pity  Senator Young  has just returned to the chamber. If he had been listening to this explanation he might have learned something about the process of price formation in a competitive market. From his previous remarks and the remarks which I predict he will make shortly, it seems he knows nothing about the subject. 
Wool's percentage share of the textile market is irrelevant to the individual grower and the Australian industry. All that matters is the price received for whatever wool is produced. The less wool produced in the world the higher the price will be. If anyone still prefers to believe International Wool Secretariat quackery and thereby stand common sense, pricing theory and empirical evidence upside down, I suggest that he reflect on the post- 1974 seasonal reserve price under which wool is physically withheld from mills which will not pay the reserve price. If he supports the reserve price operation- I do not know of any Government senator who does not support it at least publicly- he repudiates the fallacy that more wool will lead to higher wool prices. 
A more sophisticated version of the fallacy purports to analyse the long term effect of higher wool production. It argues that wool demand is increasing. In technical jargon, the demand curve is moving upward and outward. Therefore, it is argued, small annual increments to world wool supply, such as would occur if Australian merinos were genetically superior and were made available to overseas flock owners, would not cause wool prices to fall and would not be incompatible with increasing wool prices. Although that argument is sound it has nothing to do with the issue. If demand increased, as the argument assumes, but supply did not, wool prices would be higher still. The demand for wool or anything else is not determined by the supply; it is determined by exogenous factors. This great fallacy upon which the Government's previous export policy was built was originally concocted in the 1960s by the economic quacks in the International Wool Secretariat. It was popularised by the likes of William Gunn and William Vines, foisted by them on a gullable Australian Wool Industry Conference and swallowed by feeble-minded Liberal and National Country Party politicians. I fear it is about to be regurgitated by some of them. Those who still believe this fallacy, as Professor Alan 
Lloyd succinctly noted in 1970, parade 'a remarkable ignorance of the process of price formation'. I fear that that ignorance will be paraded again within the next hour or so. 
Every argument the Minister has produced to rationalise Government policy has been shown to be either wrong or fraudulent. In one instance- the interpretation of the 1973 referendum- he has recanted. He attempts to hide a woolly and indefensible set of propositions behind a recommendation from the Australian Wool Industry Conference, a body already repudiated on this issue by the very people it purports to represent. Many people, including me, have previously stated the belief that if we exported all the stud rams in Australia it would make little, if any, difference to the wool market. That conclusion was based on the assumption- always said to be an unproven and to this stage unprovable assumption- that there was little, if any, genetic difference between the so-called top stud rams, merinos overseas or the entire Australian merino flock. The Minister, however, cannot use that argument as a defence of Government policy. He has stated and reaffirmed as recently as last Thursday a belief that genetically the Australian merino is still way ahead of merinos anywhere else in the world'. The Minister's statement fundamentally changes the issue so far as it relates to the Government's credibility. The Minister's belief, if it is correct, establishes that the Government's policy poses a real threat to the Australian wool industry. As I mentioned before, it unequivocally endorses the view held by the Australian Workers Union and the wool growers who are opposed to the Government's policy. On the available evidence there is no doubt that most wool growers are opposed to that policy. It could be argued that the Government's wider responsibilities justify overruling wool grower opinion, or indeed any sectional interest opinion, on vital issues. But any government which does that has a compelling obligation to present a coherent, rational explanation of its policy. The Minister and the Government have conspicuously failed to do this. Until the Government can do that, or until another referendum is held, the negative decision of the 1973 referendum should stand. Whether or not the issue per se is important, the web of chicancery spun by the Minister and the Government to rationalise their actions is a matter or grave public concern. Both the Minister and the Government richly deserve the censure of Parliament. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer and refers to the announcement of the Government in the Budget Speech to double the threshold payments required of the States to qualify for further disaster relief funding, and the matching requirements thereafter that have now been imposed. It refers also to a report yesterday that  Sir Charles  Court had complained about the application of this rule stating, that as a result of the change, Western Australia would receive negligible funding for damage resulting from Cyclone Alby. While I recognise, of course, that thrusting more responsibility on the States is an integral part of the Government's new Federalism policy, of which  Sir Charles  approves, would the Minister agree that this decision has retrospective application insofar as it affects damage caused in the last financial year by Cyclone Alby? Will the Government consider modifying the policy, if  Sir Charles  Court has correctly understood it, so that payments for Cyclone Alby damage will be made under the old rule.? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I seek some enlightenment about statements that have come out at various times from him and other Ministers claiming that the rate of inflation fell considerably last year and will continue to fall throughout this financial year and the statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister in the House of Representatives on 14 September, when he said: 
Keeping the Budget deficit down is the only way in which to beat inflation. An increased Budget deficit would inevitably mean a rise in inflation. 
I ask the Minister whether he agrees with  Mr Anthony  on that matter and, if so, whether he can explain why last year's deficit, which was $ 1,100m above the estimate and $500m above the deficit for the year before, is not pushing inflation up, as  Mr Anthony  said that it inevitably would? 
-The Wheat Tax Amendment Bill 1978 and the Wheat Research Amendment Bill 1978 are closely associated and therefore are being debated cognately. The purpose of the Wheat Research Amendment Bill is to make some minor changes in the administrative procedures under which Commonwealth moneys are provided for wheat research purposes. The purpose of the Wheat Tax Amendment Bill is to increase the maximum levy which might be imposed from the existing 1 5c a tonne to 30c a tonne, although it is anticipated that in at least the first year the actual levy struck will be 20c a tonne. The changes which are embodied in this legislation are in accordance with the requirements ofindeed, I understand they were originally recommended by- the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. The various wheat research projects on which money is expended cover items such as soil fertility; fertiliser usage; cultural practices; the breeding of superior wheat varieties, which are superior principally in terms of their yield potential but also in terms of their disease resistance, which affects their yield; and the suitability- what is loosely called the quality- of the physical and chemical properties of the grains for the various end uses to which wheat might be put. 
According to the second reading speech of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  the total expenditure on wheat research in this financial year is expected to be some $3. 32m. To put that in some perspective, at current wheat prices that expenditure could be recovered by an increase in wheat yields throughout the country of around only 3 pounds per acre or, for those honourable senators who are metricated in round figures 3 kilos per hectare. The normal wheat yield in Australia is some 1,300 or 1,400 kilos per hectare, so only a miniscule increase in yield would be required to cover the current level of expenditure on wheat industry research. 
If we look back at yield changes over the past 30 or 40 years- one cannot use precise figures here because it depends on what base period is claimed to be normal or, indeed, what normal yields are- we see that it is quite clear and unarguable that there has been a significant increase in average wheat yields in Australia from something like 0.9 tonnes per hectare to between 1.3 and 1.4 tonnes per hectare today. So in 30 or 40 years wheat yields have increased by somewhere near 50 per cent. People can argue about whether that is a precise figure as it depends upon what base period is chosen because, in the short term, wheat yields are very heavily affected by seasonal conditions. The figures I have cited demonstrate the increasing technical efficiency of the Australian wheat industry which, at least in part, it is a function of wheat industry research to achieve. 
Galbraith noted in what is probaly his best known book-  The Affluent Society-  which I think was published way back in 1958, that industries which have a high rate of technical progress and a high level of technical efficiency and therefore frequently, but not necessarily always, have a high level of economic efficiency, are those industries in which a good deal of money is devoted to research and development expenditure. He made the further observation that such industries often consist of oligopolistic firms, as is the case in the motor industry in the United States of America, or I suppose anywhere else, where an individual firm, firstly, has a very large income which can fund significant research and development expenditure and, secondly, has a sufficiently large share of the total market to ensure that the firm will be a principal beneficiary of any technical progress which might result. In that situation cost reductions in that firm might result from such expenditure. 
The second observation Galbraith made was that where that sort of oligopolistic industry structure does not apply a competitive market situation exists, with a vast number of producers, none of whom produces a significant proportion of the total output. Because the small firms cannot supply the funds and because they do not have the potential benefits that would induce them as individual firms to fund such research anyway it is necessary for a public body to intervene - and 'public body' means governments- to ensure that sufficient funds are spent on research and development in these industries which are characterised by a great number of small firms. That obviously fits the Australian wheat industry, which is made up of something like 40,000 commercial producers of whom perhaps only one or two would be able to raise sufficient funds on their own account to finance a significant research program and of whom none would obtain a significant proportion of the total benefit which would be derived from a successful research program. 
As Galbraith identified, we have in the Australian wheat industry a situation where public bodies must of necessity intervene to ensure that sufficient money is spent on research and development. For just over 20 years Australian governments have apparently seen the merit of this argument and have funded wheat research firstly by imposing a compulsory levy upon the industry itself and secondly by matching the proceeds of that levy with a like amount of funds drawn from consolidated revenue. Incidentally, the Industries Assistance Commission in its general report on the funding of rural research also recommended that this was one area of government assistance to agriculture which was justified and to which government funding should be continued. If I remember correctly, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)-  if not the Minister certainly some other members who spoke in the House of Representatives- noted that the Government was following the general viewpoint expressed by the IAC. 
I would like to make one final point. My comment is indirectly related to research insofar as research is aimed at wheat breeding and the production of varieties of wheat with particular milling and baking characteristics. It is true that a variety of wheat which may be highly suitable for a particular end use. such as bread baking, might be quite unsuitable for another end use, such as the manufacture of biscuits. So it is difficult to generalise and to say that a particular wheat variety is very good and some other is very bad. That statement always has to be qualified by an indication of the intended end usage. 
It is also true that the market price for various types of wheat is a variable factor. People who make recommendations on suitable varieties of wheat to grow and the manner in which the Australian wheat crop should be marketed are confronted with a somewhat difficult choice in recommending and in some cases virtually decreeing or dictating what particular wheat variety will be grown in different areas. I would like to see, so far as is possible, these recommendations incorporating the realities of the market place rather than the belief of some person, however well meaning he might be, associated with the industry. There are practical difficulties, of course, in pursuing that objective in that there are limitations on the numbers of different wheat grades which the Australian Wheat Board feasibly can market and the degree to which different varieties of wheat can be segregated in particular regions. If we look at the Western Australian experience over about the last 20 years we find that up until the late 1 960s the authorities responsible for recommending- there was no compulsionthe varieties of wheat to be grown in the State were strongly opposed to the production of wheat varieties other than those which, under suitable conditions anyway, were satisfactory for bread making whereas, I would have thought, it was always quite apparent that Western Australia, which consistently produced wheat of the lowest protein level of all the States, had an environment, at least in the southern region of the State, which was suitable for the production of biscuit wheat. Finally, the authorities in Western Australia reversed their thinking on this matter but then discovered that there was no suitable biscuit wheat variety and eventually recommended Glu Club, which was selected from Gluyas Early in, I think, 1914 and which, in terms of yield, was some 20 per cent below the varieties most commonly grown. That change of policy having been made, they could not produce a better wheat variety that Glu Club for that purpose. However, that situation has since changed. 
The point I am making is that, so far as is possible, I would prefer the various authorities involved in the determination of policy for the Australian wheat industry- the State departments of agriculture, the Australian Wheat 
Board, the research authorities and so on- to allow the growers to grow what variety they like in particular regions, subject to the price discipline of the market place, which in this instance is, I think, likely to be more effective and more rational- in fact, if the market place is working properly in this context it could not be more rational- than the particular beliefs which some people associated with the industry might have. The Opposition is not opposing either of these Bills. Indeed, I think I could safely say that it welcomes them. 
I want to speak tonight about what I suppose could be called the prevailing ethical standards of the Liberal Party of Australia. There is a lot of recent evidence about this matter, of course. We have the actions of a former Treasurer who, it is known on the public record, colluded in land speculation activities with a person, Peter Leake, who controlled the use to which the land in which the former Treasurer was speculating could be put and therefore its price. When this matter was brought out the former Treasurer asked his lawyer and his accountant to prepare a report of his business activities, which report the former Treasurer then produced and said: 'This report says that I am clean but I am not going to tell anyone what is in it. I am not going to table it in Parliament'. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  reappointed that man to the Ministry after he had said that. So we see what is the standard right at the top. 
The current so-called crackdown on tax evasion certainly lacks credibility, as the editorial of the  Australian Financial Review  pointed out again today, when we consider that again it is a matter of public record that several, if not most, of the Ministers of this Government have tax dodging family trusts on which the Government has no intention of cracking down. We have seen, again it is on the public record, that the Victorian Government surreptitiously trades in building purchases with the Victorian Branch of the Liberal Party. One Victorian Minister has been forced to resign; a Premier of Western Australia in 1968 accepted for his family company a private placement of Comalco shares when he was Minister for Industrial Development in the North-west in the State Government; and a Premier of Queensland who did the same thing at the same time, who has done much worse since and who, although he is not a member of the Liberal Party, is kept in power by the Liberal Party. So all round Australia we have a discredited and dispirited political party. 
What I want to talk about in particular is the Liberal Party in Western Australia and its President. Last February I spoke in the Senate about Noel Ashley Crichton-Browne, who was then and still is President of the Liberal Party of 
Western Australia. It is not disputed- it is a factthat he was the mining registrar at Marble Bar in 1969 and 1970. In May of 1969 he and his relatives and other members of the Liberal Party established a company called Burrill Investments. The principals of this company, the original directors, were Godfrey Burrill and Walter Jones, who were consulting geologists to Poseidon Ltd, who misused the knowledge that they gained as consulting geologists to that company to rig the stock market in Perth and who in fact supplied or were parties to supplying false information to the stock market in Perth. They held one share each in this company when it was first established on 22 May 1969. 1 am quoting from photocopies of documents procured from the Corporate Affairs Commission in Perth. 
At that time some 20,252 shares were issued. Of that 20,252, no fewer than 12,250 were held by Crichton-Browne, his brother, the woman who shortly afterwards became his wife and her mother. Specifically Peter John Browne of Merredin, the brother of Noel Ashley CrichtonBrowne, held 3,250 shares; Crichton-Browne himself, then of Marble Bar, held 5,000 shares; Norma Rosa Stevens, who is now his motherinlaw, of Box 15, Marble Bar, held 2,000 shares; Esther Grace Stevens, who is now his wife, then of Flat 3, 57 Swan View Terrace, South Perth, held 2,000 shares and 1,000 shares were allocated to Malcolm Scott Holdings, which is the family investment trust of a former Liberal Party senator. Five thousand shares were allocated to Peter William Taylor, care of the Telephone Exchange, Moora, about whom I know nothing, and 2,000 shares were allocated to Paul Rodney Fletcher of 12 Lancaster Street, Dianella. At the time that this company was established, in which Crichton-Browne had 5,000 shares and in which his relatives had another 7,250, he was the mining registrar at Marble Bar. Section 8 of the Mining Act 1904 provides that any person who, firstly, being a warden, mining registrar or mining surveyor holds directly or indirectly any share of interest in any plan, mining lease or other mining adventure whatsoever or, secondly, being a warden acts or adjudicates in any matter in which he has directly or indirectly any pecuniary interest, should be guilty of a misdemeanour. The Act goes on to state that on conviction that shall be punishable by a penalty not exceeding two years' imprisonment. Nearly all of this, of course, was known and stated in the Western Australian Parliament in 1 977. 
Finally, on 1 1 February Crichton-Browne was charged with a breach of section 8 of the Mining Act. On 6 April 1978 he was discharged from custody. I have in front of me a transcript of the court proceedings, including an extraordinary submission presented by the defence. The defence argued, among other things, that it was ludicrous to suggest that Crichton-Browne, because he had shares in a company which was set up to speculate in Poseidon shares, had breached section 8 of the Mining Act. In pursuing this alleged absurdity, the defence counsel's submission drew attention to the position of a person who was a policy holder in the Australian Mutual Provident Society. Of course, the AMP has shares in mining companies. The defence counsel said: 
The first is the situation which the defendant himself envisaged where an AMP policy holder, a policy holder in AMP, the AMP Society itself for some reason holds a mining claim. Now, if the defendant is guilty of this present charge, then so would he be if he were a mere policy holder in AMP Society. One can take another more immediate case where the defendant, being a Mining Registrar, holds shares in a public company, and that public company holds shares in another company, say CSR, BHP or any other of them. Now the situation is identical with the present one. 
It is rather remarkable that the defence counsel could have claimed that holding a policy with the AMP, which holds shares in mining companies, was analogous to a person being an initial shareholder in a company at the time it was incorporated, holding almost 25 per cent of the shares in that company himself and his relatives holding another 37 per cent or 38 per cent of the shares in that company, it being a proprietary company with at the time only eight shareholders in total, and the prosecuting counsel did not even see fit in his closing remarks to draw attention to that fact. 
The defence went on to present an alleged genealogy of the Western Australian Mining Act, which the defence counsel said was derived originally from the Mining Act of New South Wales. The defence counsel said: 
It is helpful perhaps to have regard to the history of this particular legislation because it is clear that it comes through with many of the other provisions from the earlier legislation of other States and it is to be picked up first I think in New South Wales where in Section 12 of the 1894 Mining Act, which is a provision dealing with the appointment of Wardens and Other Officers, the comparable provision in fact there appears as a proviso, it wasn't a substantive offence at all. 
The defence counsel went on to argue, that although the charge was laid under the Western Australian Mining Act, the New South Wales Mining Act precluded people who were registrars, wardens or surveyors from holding shares in mining tenements but that it was not a substantive offence in itself and was not considered to be a misdemeanour or a crime. The defence went on to argue that a misdemeanour was committed only if the warden adjudicated on a matter within his jurisdiction, that is, in the mining area under his control. Essentially the defence argued that the words in section 8 of the Western Australian Mining Act did not mean what they said or, if they did mean what they said, it was intended that they should mean something else. And again the prosecuting counsel did not see fit to draw attention to that rather absurd assertion by the defence which in effect said that  Mr Crichton-Browne  was not guilty of any offence under the Mining Act of New South Wales and even though the charge was laid under the Mining Act of Western Australia he should be discharged from custody on the ground that he had not breached the Mining Act of New South Wales. The defence went on to cite Barwick 's judgment in the Webster case as a precedent and that, I think, is appropriate because, as the Attorney-General said at the time, if Barwick 's precedent was accepted nobody would ever be convicted of anything. The prosecution's reply to these astounding propositions comprised 1 9 lines in the transcript, less than 200 words. 
This is in stark contrast to the zeal with which the Western Australian police prosecuted a couple of other notable cases. I refer to Chesterthe so-called woodchip bomber- who was convicted and then, at the instigation of the Western Australian Government, the Crown appealed on the ground that his sentence was not heavy enough. Chester's sentence was increased. In Western Australia in May, I think it was, a test case involving 34 pickets who were arrested at the Fremantle wharf was dismissed by the judge on the ground that the Fremantle Port Authority did not have lawful authority to lay the charge. The judge dismissed the charge against one of the pickets. The police appealed against that dismissal. The appeal is still pending. The double standard applied to law enforcement or to the prosecution of the law in Western Australia is patently obvious, and surely even Noddy would not believe that the double standard applied by the Western Australian police is not substantially derived from the Court Government. 

 Mr Crichton-Browne, it is true, escaped conviction under a system which masquerades as justice in Western Australia, but the following facts are not in dispute. He was a mining registrar and was an initial shareholder in a company set up by Burrill and Jones, consulting geologists to Poseidon. Of the 20,252 original shares, 12,250 were held by Crichton-Browne and his relatives- by Crichton-Browne himself, his brother, the woman who is now his wife and that woman's mother. Burrill and Jones, consulting geologists to Poseidon, used inside knowledge gained in that capacity, firstly, to misinform the public about the assay from the Windarra strike and, secondly, to speculate, to trade in shares before the public was aware of the assay, although those two events took place in reverse chronological order. They then lied to a Senate committee which was ultimately set up after great difficulty, particularly for  Senator Murphy.  They were stock market swindlers. The company that they, Crichton-Browne and his relatives, set up made more than $1.3m from this stock market swindling- from swindling the public by rigging the share market. 
Finally, the shareholding of that company, Burrill Investments Pty Ltd, was expanded from the original seven persons and 20,000 shares to a very much greater number of shareholders and some 100,000 shares in total. Some of the names are worth noting. The first listed is Richard Winston Annear. 86 Kingsway, Nedlands. The second is Rory Edward Stanley Argyle, second floor, 164 St George's Terrace, Perth. I understand that at that stage both were lawyers employed by, or were partners in, the well known Perth firm of Parker and Parker. Then there is Godfrey Burrill himself. This information comes from the Corporate Affairs Commission return for Burrill Investments dated 27 January 1970, some eight months after the company was initially set up. Godfrey Burrill himself had 3,000 shares. Peter John BrowneNoel Crichton-Browne 's brother- still had his original 3,250 shares. Noel Crichton-Browne still had his 5,000. Judith Berryman, 47 Angelo Street, South Perth, had 5,000 shares. Calder and Co., care of the Bank of Nova Scotia Agency, 37 Wall Street, New York, had 10,000 shares. It would be interesting to know who were the principles in that dummy company. Greenshields Incorporated, Toronto Dominion Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, had 4,000 shares. Helen Mabel Henrietta Hynam, 60 Mount Street, Perth, had 5,250 shares, she was the wife of the then  chairman  of the Perth Stock Exchange. Walter Jones, the consulting geologist to Poseidon, had 4,000 shares.  His  wife, Judith Merle Jones,' of 49 McLeod Road, Applecross, had 5,250 shares. Malcolm Scott Holdings Pty Ltd- the family company of Malcolm Scottcare of Lindquist Stacy and Fountain, had 1,000 shares. 
When we see the interlocking web which bound these people together we find that the wives of both Stacy and Lindquist both of whom were directors of Burrill Investments in 1970, had shares in the company. They were accountants to Burrill Investments. Lindquist was the secretary of Malcolm Scott Holdings Pty Ltd. So we see that there is no accident in all this; there is an interlocking web which bound all these people, or, if not all of them, certainly a very great number of them. Jean Emma Stacy, as I mentioned, thewife of the director Stacy, had 1,000 shares. Stanley Holdings Pty Ltd care of Ford Rhodes, Foulkes and Co., 214 St George's Terrace, Perth, had 3,000 shares. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the complete list of shareholders in Burrill Investments as at 27 January 1970 as procured from the Western Australian Corporate Affairs Commission. 
Leave granted. 

 The list read as follows- 


<graphic href="078232197809264_56_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078232197809264_56_1.jpg"></graphic>

Knowing all these facts, the Liberal Party of Western Australia a couple of months ago re-elected Noel Crichton-Browne as its  President,  and he is of course, as is well known, a close associate of the West Australian Premier. Whether he was technically guilty of an offence or not- and I acknowledge that under rather extraordinary circumstances he was discharged from custody by the court- it remains as fact that he, as a mining registrar, was a very substantial initial shareholder in a company that was set up by a couple of crooks to speculate in 
Poseidon shares and rob the public by rigging the share market and by misinforming the share market. It is a sordid story and it is one of many sordid stories about a very sordid political party. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 14 September: 
1 ) What are the details of plans made to retrench staff of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation in Western Australia. 
Will the Minister ensure that retrenchments will not begin before mid-December 1 978 
3 ) What are the details of the retrenchment program. 
What steps will be taken to ensure that: (a) all possible measures are taken to ensure placement of Australian Services Canteens Organisation staff in other Government employment; (b) conditions of employment similar to those currently applying in Australian Services Canteens Organisations are applied to staff placed in new Government positions; (c) members of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation superannuation fund are not disadvantaged by early involuntary retirement; and (d) no discrimination on grounds of sex or marital status occurs when placements in other Government positions are arranged. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
1 ) Which Ministers have access to the lists of persons entitled to travel on the Parliamentary credit cards. 
Which Government Departments are provided with this list. 
Which organisations outside the Government are provided with this list. 
Does the Office of Government Ceremonial and Hospitality in the Prime Minister's Department maintain such a list. 
Is it compiled by the Office of Government Ceremonial and Hospitality or is it provided by the Department of Administrative Services. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
What has been the cost of each official and unofficial visit to Australia by members of the Royal Family since November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
Did the Minister personally pay all or pan of any accounts received by the Government for debts incurred by him for the use of hire cars between 2 December 1972 and 11 November 1975. 
Is he aware of any other individual or commercial or political organisation paying any such accounts on his behalf. 
When  Senator Scott  referred to the Budget as being a responsible document he should have qualified that statement and told us whether the responsible document was the one that was introduced on 15 August, the one that was amended last week, the one that has been further amended this week or what we might finally be left with after the rest of the frightened rabbits on the back bench have hacked it around a bit more. I intended when speaking in the Budget debate to congratulate my fellow West Australian,  Senator Chaney,  on his selection for the Ministry. The selection surprised me in two ways. Firstly, I was surprised that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  would have had sufficient nous to appoint someone as bright as  Senator Chaney  to the Ministry. The second surprise was that  Senator Chaney  accepted a position in a Government so corrupt. I would like to make one fleeting comment on  Senator Chaney  's remarks last night in which he apparently took exception to some facts, although he did not dispute the factual accuracy of the things I said in some remarks about the  President  of the Western Australian Liberal Party. I observe in passing that from  Senator Chaney  's remarks he apparently believes that as long as a person is not actually convicted of a gaoling offence he is fit to hold any public office in Australia, that it is quite acceptable for  Mr Lynch  to collude with land racketeers for personal gain, and that it is quite acceptable for a person such as  Mr CrightonBrowne,  who colluded with share market racketeers, to be  President  of the Western Australian branch of the Liberal Party and to be reappointed after his involvement became known. 
Looking to the Budget itself, immediately after the Budget had been presented the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  as is customary, delivered a number of speeches to various groups trying to sell the Budget. On 16 Augustthe very next day- he said: 
We worked - 
This is in preparing the Budget-  against the background of an economy that was showing signs of responding positively to our policies of the last two years. 
That statement looks rather ludicrous today. It has looked ludicrous ever since the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  started to tell the truth about unemployment in the House of Representatives last Thursday week. The credibility of that remark went out the window with  Mr Street's  statement. On that occasion the Treasurer continued: 
The economic scene is presently characterised by declining inflation - 
That appears to be true-  moderately expanding demand and activity and a more settled and predictable environment. 
That looks pretty absurd in a week such as this one in which four amendments have been made to the Budget, which was supposed to establish a more settled and predictable environment. 
No, I think the frightened rabbits on the back bench have taken over since the Werriwa by-election. On the same day the Treasurer told a different audience: 
As a reflection of this - 
Apparently the falling trend in the rate of inflation-  the savings ratio has been reduced as consumers have become more confident and increased their spending. 
I observe that similar sentiments are contained in a passage on page 10 of Statement No. 2 in Budget Paper No. 1. 1 am not sure whether this was written at the direction of the Treasurer or whether it was written by faceless bureaucrats in the Treasury, but it presents the same argument- that as the rate of inflation fell the savings ratio also fell with it. Unfortunately, a table at the top of that very page in Statement No. 2 shows that the savings ratio for the last four half years was 16.4 per cent in the second half of calendar year 1976, 15.1 per cent in the first half of calendar year 1977, 14.6 per cent in the second half of calendar year 1977, and 15.2 per cent in the first half of calendar year 1978. In other words, the savings ratio in the most recent half year is higher than it has been in any period for the previous two years. So the Treasury and/or the Treasurer, but certainly the Treasurer, propound the theory that as the rate of inflation falls the savings ratio falls with it. It just so happens that the facts as presented by the Government demonstrate the opposite. As the rate of inflation has fallen, and it has clearly fallen in the last year or so, in fact the savings ratio has gone up. So that statement bears about as much relationship to reality, to the way the world really is, as most of the economic analyses and conclusions of the Government. But even better was to come. In a speech on 1 7 August the Treasurer said: 
The depressed dwelling industry has recently shown a turn for the better. 
A few weeks ago the statistics for housing for July came out. They showed that the number of dwellings approved in the month of July fell to an actual figure of 9,400 or a seasonally adjusted figure of 9,200. That was the lowest figure of approvals for a decade, yet the Treasurer said that the depressed dwelling industry has recently shown a turn for the better. If we look at an alternative index of activity in the dwelling industry, the value of houses under construction- in current value dollars, not constant value dollars- was $ 1,340m in the quarter commencing December 1 976, $ 1 ,42 1 m in March 1977, $ 1,413m in June 1977, $ 1,426m in September 1977, $l,289m in December 1977, and $ 1,304m in March 1 978. So even in current value dollars the value of houses under construction is the second lowest it has been at any time in the last 2 1 months and in constant value dollars is likewise lower than it has been at any time in the last 2 1 months. It is some $ 100m lower in current values or $200m in constant values than it was a year ago, and those are the most recently available statistics. So there is no justification whatsoever for the Treasurer's assertion that the building industry is picking up. 
Looking at the figures in the Budget, the  National Times  of 23 August carried a story headed 'Deficit Double Talk' in which it said, in commenting on the Budget figures: 
The second disclosure puts at risk the economic credibility of the Prime Minister. The  National Times  has learnt from a high source that the figure for the Budget deficit for the 1 977 Budget was under-estimated to avoid political embarrassment. 
The story went on to say that the estimate for growth in average weekly earnings which the Treasurer had produced showed on the revised estimate that earnings would increase by between 9.8 per cent and 9.9 per cent. I quote again from the article: 
But the Prime Minister refused to accept the Treasury figures and probably sought advice from his own department. He finally accepted a figure of 10.S per cent. 
What the  National Times  article did not reveal was the name of the 'high source'. The high source, of course, as everyone around Parliament House, or at least everyone in the Press Gallery, knows was  Senator Withers,  who told journalists on the evening of 8 August, the night after he was sacked, that the Prime Minister last year issued instructions that the correct estimates, the honest estimates, for last year's Budget, were to be changed and more politically acceptable estimates were to be inserted. We saw the final consequence of that falsification of the figures when the Budget deficit came out at 50 per cent or $1,1 15m higher than was estimated. It is interesting to note on the question of deficits and inflation, which unfortunately in a simplistic and highly misleading way this Government has made a major political issue, that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  said in the House of Representatives on 14 September: 
Keeping the Budget deficit down is the only way in which to beat inflation. An increased Budget deficit would inevitably mean a rise in inflation. 

 - Mr Anthony said that 1 3 days ago- keeping the Budget deficit down is the only way in which to beat inflation and an increased Budget deficit would inevitably mean a rise in the inflation rate. We have just finished a year in which the Budget deficit was $1,1 15m above estimate. It was $500m higher than in the previous year. The Government never ceases telling us that the inflation rate has come down and will continue to come down. Yet the  Deputy  Prime Minister says that an increased Budget deficit would inevitably mean a rise in the inflation rate. That is a further demonstration of the credibility which can be attached to statements on the economy by senior Ministers in this Government. 
The size of the Budget deficit having been made an issue of considerable political importance, it was necessary for the Government to fiddle the deficit in a variety of ways. In the first Budget it presented it instituted some permanent fiddles by shifting out of government accounts capital borrowings for government enterprises like Telecom Australia. The deficit, compared with deficits in the pre- 1976 era, is some $300m higher than figures show. As well as those permanent fiddles by way of changing the basis of government accounting, we have seen a number of secondary fiddles. In this year's Budget- and this is by no means an exhaustive list- the deficit has been cosmetically reduced by $35m by changing the timing of family allowance payments in a way which effectively deferred the payment of one week's family allowance from the current financial year until the next financial year. It is clear, on the Treasurer's own estimate, and as admitted by him at the National Press Club on 16 August, that on average 25,000 more people will receive unemployment benefits this year than last year and that nobody will receive a smaller weekly benefit. Notwithstanding those facts, the Budget Papers estimate that $ 10m less will be paid by way of unemployment benefits this year than last year, even though 25,000 more people will receive those benefits. The effect of that particular fiddle is to cosmetically reduce the stated deficit by another $80m. 
Pay-as-you-earn taxation for this financial year is to be 1  lAc  per dollar of income higher, not 1.5 per cent higher, than in the previous year. 
The increased PA YE deductions do not commence until 1 November this year. The standard practice is that employers do not actually pay the money to the Treasury; they deduct it from employees' wages a month later. So, given that the Government had to collect 12 months' contributions in eight months, the l'/ic increase should have been multiplied by a factor of 12/8. But the effect of that would have been to defer the collection of one month of that increased tax until the next financial year instead of this financial year. On page 158 of Budget Paper No. 1 we see that in fact the 1c increase will be multiplied by a factor not of 12/8 but of 12/7. The effect of that will be that the Government will over-charge to the extent of $77m in the tax it collects to the end of June. But it will get in all of this 12 months' additional collection by the end of May instead of the end of June. Then it will have to refund in the following financial year the $77m it has overcharged to the year ending June. I know that that is a bit complicated - 
It is not wrong. Once again the effect is to transfer to next year's Budget deficit $77m of this year's Budget deficit. Again the published figure for this year will be $77m lower than the real figure. 
I turn now to the superphosphate bounty on which more than $42m was expended last year. The estimate for this year is $40m. Two months ago the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  was talking about a farm-led economic recovery. That, I presume, is to follow on from the investment-led recovery, the consumer-led recovery and the export-led economic recovery that we have already experienced! Absurd though that statement about a farm-led economic recovery is, it is true that the probabilities are that farm incomes will increase quite significantly this year, even after the Government has hacked them around with its fuel levy increase. The probability is that farm incomes will be 13 per cent or 14 per cent higher in real terms than they were last year. 
Of course I applaud that. It is the result of higher prices for some products in a pretty good season. Given the probability of a significant increase in farm income, we have an estimate by this Government that purchases of superphosphate are actually going to fall. Who believes that? That figure has obviously been fiddled as well. Then we have the tax on people such as newspaper boys. This was abandoned as from yesterday, but according to the Budget Speech it was going to save the Government $90m. The estimate of the cost of abolishing it, however, is either $21m or $42m according to statements made yesterday by Government Ministers. This is another fiddle. But quantitativelyand the most important fiddle of all- the Budget Papers estimate that the consumer price index will increase by 6 per cent this year. Government rhetoric has been to the effect that unless real wages fell it would be absolutely catastrophic and so on. Government policy is directed very heavily towards getting real wages down- and the Government says that it is going to succeed. If it succeeds, wages will increase by something less than the CPI increase, that is, by something less than 6 per cent. Yet when the Government estimates the salary increases, on average, for its own employees, it uses a figure of 3.9 per cent. But when the Government comes to estimating the revenue, it assumes that PA YE taxation income will increase by 7V4 per cent. The difference between those figures in the over-estimate of revenue is of the order of $400m. 
Apart from all that indirect evidence, we now have some empirical evidence to demonstrate that the Budget deficit has been deliberately fiddled and understated again. Expenditure for the first two months of this financial year was about 14 per cent higher than that of the previous year, against an estimated increase for the whole year of 7.7 per cent. When this fact was pointed out, the Treasurer said that that was because there had been an extra pension payment in that period. When the increase is corrected to allow for that extra pension payment, it can be seen that government expenditure increased by 11.1 per cent, which still cannot be reconciled with the 7.7 per cent estimate for the entire financial year. 
The Government has quite clearly, and indeed now by its own admission, failed to deliver the economic cargo that it promised. It is a failure to deliver which was informally acknowledged by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  in the House of Representatives 13 days ago. When the figures do not work out in the way in which the Government would like them to work out, its response is to falsify them. I note that Henry Kyemba, a one-time Ugandan Health Minister, in his book entitled  State of Blood,  gives us an insight into similar methods and attitudes which prevail in Uganda. In 1977, Kyemba wrote: 
Uganda 's deficit ran to three billion shillings. The Ministers are still under orders to blame Obote. 
Obote, of course, was the  President  that Amin deposed in January 1971. Commenting on the Ugandan Budget figures, Kyemba said: 
The published figures then and now bear no relation to the realities. 
Given the recent happenings in Australia and Kyemba 's description of realities in Uganda, it is no wonder that West German officials were recently openly referring to the Australian Prime Minister as 'the white Idi Amin'. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It refers to the Prime Minister's statement in Sydney last Monday that he had been advised prior to the last election that 'Unemployment will fall from February onwards'. I ask the Minister whether he has seen yesterday's statement from the Secretary of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association,  Mr Blunden,  which read: 
Public Service advisers to the Government had not agreed that unemployment would fall in a steady and sustained way after February 1978. 
In that statement he repudiated any possibility that that advice had come from the Public Service. Since the advice clearly did not come from the Public Service, can the Minister tell us from where the Prime Minister received that advice? Did he receive it from Mickey Mouse, or was the Prime Minister just lying again? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
When did the Minister grant approval for the Australian Wool Corporation to operate the Limited Offer to Purchase Scheme. 
Is it correct that the scheme was to operate for atrial period of twelve months; if not (a) what was the period allowed for the trial; and (b) on what date will the trial be terminated. 
Was the LOPS to be operated on a strictly commercial basis; if so: (a) how many bales have been purchased since the commencement of the scheme; (b) how many bales have been sold by the Corporation from wool purchased under the LOPS; (c) what are the financial details of the operation of LOPS; and (d) what proportion of the Australian Wool Corporation's overhead costs has been attributed to the establishment and cost of LOPS. 
What amount of wool: (a) has been offered to LOPS in each State in which LOPS operates; (b) has been purchased by LOPS; and (c) has been offered to the LOPS but not purchased and subsequently sold through auction. 
What is the average price obtained by woolgrowers for wool which: (a) has been sold in each State under LOPS; and (b) has been offered to but not purchased under LOPS and subsequently sold by auction. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) What is the total quantity of wool held in stock by the Australian Wool Corporation. 
What have been the maximum and minimum quantities of wool held by the Australian Wool Corporation since 1 July 1977. 
What have been the total quantities and value of wool sold by the Australian Wool Corporation in each month since 1 July 1977 from stocks held by the Australian Wool Corporation. 
What are the quantities which have been sold in each month since 1 July 1977 by (I) auction; and (b) private treaty. 
How much wool is held overseas by the Australian Wool Corporation and how much is held at each place where wool is stored overseas. 
What have been the disposals of wool out of stocks held overseas in each month since 1 July 1 977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
When did the Minister make the payment of$ 1 , 265.90 referred to in his answer to Question No. 853 (Senate  Hansard,  27 September 1978, page 103 1 ). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
Was the amount of $1,265.90 for the Minister's personal use of hire cars supplied by Avis Rent-A-Car Systems Pty Ltd (referred to in his answer to Question No. 853, Senate  Hansard,  27 September 1978, page 1031) paid: (a) directly to Avis; (b) to the Government; or (c) to some other party. 
2 ) Was it paid in cash or by cheque. 
Did the Minister receive a receipt; if so, was there a date on the receipt; if not, has he any other record of payment. 
Did the National Country Party reimburse the Minister for all or part of the amount in question. 
Has the National Country Party ever reimbursed the Minister for expenditure incurred by him in hiring cars as Deputy Leader of the National Country Party, for which he did not have a parliamentary entitlement. 
What is the nature of the 'dispute as to responsibility' referred to in the Minister's answer to Question No. 853. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notices, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) Did the Depanment of Administrative Services or its predecessor receive accounts for debts incurred by the member for New England for the hire of cars between 2 
December 1972 and 1 1 November 1975; if so, what was the name of the firm or firms which submitted any such accounts. 
Was all or part of any such accounts paid; if so, were such accounts paid from consolidated revenue or from some other source; if not: (a) were the accounts withdrawn, or does the debt remain unpaid; ( b) was any formal or informal notification received from the firm that it did not intend to recover the debt; if so, when; and (c) did the Government agree to the withdrawal of all or part of any such accounts. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I assume that he would be familiar with the Prime Minister's statement in the House of Representatives on 28 September in which he claimed that the October 1977 national income forecast predicted a 10,000 decline in what he called registered unemployed ' from December 1 977 to March 1978. I ask: Does the use of the term registered unemployed' imply that the Prime Minister was using Commonwealth Employment Service figures? If so, is the Government claiming that it was forecast that actual CES unemployment registrations would fall between December and March, or was the Prime Minister using a seasonally adjusted figure? If the latter, how could he use seasonally adjusted CES figures when seasonal adjustment had already been abolished? If he was using any seasonally adjusted figures, can the Minister explain why the Prime Minister on  Monday Conference  on 1 1 September attempted to defend his claim that unemployment would fall from February onwards on the basis of actual and not seasonally adjusted figures? 
With all the rabid proselytisers of free enterprise who seem to populate the Liberal Party of Western Australia, I am surprised that there was not a palace revolution when  Sir Charles  Court nationalised the Midland Railway Co. in the mid-1960s. The purpose of this package of Bills being debated now is to implement the tax changes outlined in the Budget, or more accurately the tax changes outlined in the Budget minus the numerous amendments which have subsequently been made to these tax changes at the instigation of the frightened rabbits on the Government backbench. 
The most significant of the Bills of course is that one which imposes a 1.5c in the dollar increase in personal taxation, the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill. I stress that it is an increase of 1.5c in the dollar in tax for every dollar of taxable income as distinct from the misleading but common description of this increase as a  I'A  per cent increase in taxation. In fact the amount of tax paid will increase for low income earners by about 4.6 per cent and for the highest income earners by some 3.2 per cent. Compressed as effects of the measure are into a 7-month period, many taxpayers will in fact have an 8 per cent increase in weekly tax deductions after 1 November. 
This Bill in particular provides further evidence- if any evidence were needed- of the cynical dishonesty of this present Government. I remember very clearly staring in November and December of last year at page after page of newspaper advertisements showing a hand holding out a fistful of fivers- I understand there were 14 notes in that hand- and three inch banner print which said: 'Liberal gives tax cuts- Labor gives nothing'. Underneath the fistful of fivers was the working class hand with nothing in it. It was highly appropriate, when the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  was attempting to rationalise the contradictions- the about-faces- in the Budget at the National Press Club on 16 August last, that he was asked a question by the Canberra representative of the Adelaide  Advertiser,  which is not a newspaper which has any reputation of being even mildly left wing. It is a highly 'respectable ' establishment paper. 

 - Senator Teague says that the newspaper does not support the Liberal Party. I have never noticed it supporting the Labor Party. I do not know what it supports. Perhaps it supports the Progressive Party, the Workers Party or something like that. Certainly I have never noticed it supporting the Labor Party. The Canberra representative of the Adelaide  Advertiser,  when his opportunity came to ask a question, quoted to the Treasurer statements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  prior to the 1977 election in which the Prime Minister had followed his usual line and said that if Labor got back into government it would increase income tax and that everyone knew that that would be disastrous and therefore the people could not let Labor get back into government. The representative of the Adelaide  Advertiser  then said to  Mr Howard: 

 Mr Treasurer, can you give us an assurance that the l'/ic taxation surcharge will be abolished on 30 June 1979? If you can give us such an assurance can you give us any reason why we should believe you? 
Why, indeed! In looking at the Prime Minister's policy speech of 21 November 1977 one remembers these words: 
From February 1st, further tax cuts will come in for every Australian wage and salary earner. This year alone, the person on average earnings will be saving $6 a week from-these two reforms . . . And because we have reduced the marginal rate of tax- it 's now worth working overtime again. 
Then he said, thundering to the climax: 
The Australian people will not accept a return to high taxes. The Government will bring taxes down further- not increase them. 
Why, indeed, should anyone believe the Prime Minister or the Government? The fact of the matter is that at the time the Prime Minister made that statement he, above all people, must have been well enough briefed by the bureaucracy to know that unless there was to be a massive increase in the deficit for the present financial year taxation in one form or another would have to go up. He knew that when he said: 
The Government will bring taxes down further- not increase them. 
The plain fact is that, after this 1  ic  in the dollar increase becomes operative, everyone with an income between just under $100 a week and $238 a week will pay more tax than he would have paid under the tax schedule operative 12 months ago, and that includes about 80 per cent of taxpayers. The very rich, such as people on the Prime Minister's salary, still get significant advantages, but about 80 per cent of taxpayerseveryone with an income from just below $100 a week to $238 a week- will pay more taxation under the schedule now operative for this financial year than he would have paid under the schedule operating 12 months ago. That, of course, does not count the effect of fiscal drag. Because of the so-called tax cuts of 1 February, the Government applied only 50 per cent indexation on 1 July this year. That was 50 per cent of a fiddled figure which had been discounted for a number of changes in the consumer price index which the Government said that it was not going to count for indexation purposes. In fact, the effective rate of indexation measured against the CPI was about 36 per cent. 
As well as the increase in tax payable by the overwhelming majority of taxpayers- some 80 per cent- also operating is what  Mr Fraser  once called a massive unlegislated tax increase applying because of fiscal drag, because the Government has not adjusted the tax scales for changes in the consumer price index as it had solemnly promised to do prior to the 1975 election. Most of that is fairly well known. What is less well known is the long term performance of this Government which always has proclaimed itself to be a government of low taxes. Honourable senators will remember the Prime Minister saying: 
The Australian people will not accept a return to high taxes. The Government will bring taxes down further- not increase them. 
From February 1st, further tax cuts will come in for every Australian . . . Quite apart from our tax concessions to business our personal tax reforms have saved taxpayers $3,300m. 
How does the Government's record in the area of taxation fit the rhetoric which I have quoted and which is lying around in abundance? It is possible, because of changing levels of incomes and so on, to distort taxation figures in various ways and to misrepresent significantly the underlying reality. 
I think that any person who has a conceptual understanding of these matters and who has any objectivity will recognise that an acceptable measure of the burden of taxation in the community is the amount paid in tax expressed as a proportion of gross domestic product. That is a highly relevant indicator of the true burden of taxation on the community. I think it could well be argued that it is the best indicator of the true burden of taxation. If we look at this Government's actual performance in the taxation area as distinct from its rhetoric, we find that in 1974-75- a period in which the Liberal Party alleges the massive tax increases of the Labor Government were operating- 13.79 per cent of gross domestic product was paid in personal taxation. In 1975-76, under the last Labor Budget, total personal taxation equalled 14 per cent of gross domestic product. In 1976-77, after these alleged Liberal tax cuts had become operative, personal taxation equalled 14.55 per cent of gross domestic product. In 1977-78 personal taxation equalled 14.77 per cent of gross domestic product. In other words, in 1977-78 the figure was almost 1 per cent higher expressed as a proportion of gross domestic product or 7 per cent higher expressed as a proportion of itself than it was in the days of the Labor Government when allegedly, according to the Liberal Party, taxation had reached punitive and unbearable levels. 
The inescapable fact is that there has been a steady increase in the proportion of gross domestic product paid in personal taxation ever since this Government came into office. We cannot, of course, compute a figure for this financial year because we do not know what gross domestic product will be and we do not know what taxation will be. It is possible that there could be a marginal fall in the proportion paid in personal taxation because of the massive increases in indirect taxation, with the increase in the excise on liquor and tobacco and of course the massive crude oil levy. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table which I have prepared from information contained in Budget Paper No. 1 and which shows personal taxation paid over the years, from 1974-75 to 1977-78 as a percentage of gross domestic product. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

PERSONAL TAXATION AS A PERCENTAGE OF GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT 
Whatever one believes about tax levels or the appropriate levels of taxation- it comes down ultimately to a value judgment as well as an economic judgment- it is important to recognise that there is an innate contradiction between a professed policy of low personal taxation and high tariffs. Indeed, anyone who claims to have a strong philosophical commitment to low taxation and simultaneously supports high tariffs is a fool or a knave, or possibly both. Tariffs are taxes to raise revenue or to subsidise domestic industry. In most cases, tariffs do both of those things and they are usually regressive measures. Of course, they also contradict all this Government's rhetoric about maximising the choice of the individual in the disposal of his own income. Tariffs are taxes. I repeat that anyone who claims to have a strong philosophical commitment to low taxes and simultaneously supports high tariffs is a fool or a knave. 
The major measure being debated, as I have already mentioned, is the  Viz  increase in tax for each dollar of taxable income which is, of course, for a significant number of taxpayers, an 8 per cent increase in the amount of tax which will be paid and for any taxpayer is more than a 2.8 per cent increase in the amount of tax paid. It is interesting to note also that the collection of this increase has been compressed into seven months so far as PA YE taxpayers are concerned. Normally, the actual receipt of funds by the Treasury is about one month behind the actual payment of wages by the employers. So to get in the full financial year's revenue from this measure the Government has compressed the collection into seven months, starting from 1 January. The consequence of that little fiddle compared with the normal method of collecting PA YE taxation in a financial year is that there will be a cosmetic reduction in the deficit of some $77m. That little fiddle, of course, follows a trend or practice which has been well established by this Government, given its obsession with the deficit, of coming at every little accountancy trick that it can think of to achieve a reduction in the figure which is printed at the end of the year. It does not make any difference at all to any real economic indice. 
Yes, it is a trendy practice. I think it could possibly be more accurately described as a shonky practice. I also note in passing that the reduction from 20 per cent to 10 per cent in the permissible error for self-assessment of provisional tax will, of course, have the same effect. It will have the effect of increasing revenue in the current financial year at the expense of revenue in the next financial year or in future financial years. One does not have to be terribly suspicious to realise that that would have been a factor motivating the Government in this change. Personally I think the change is justified. People can estimate their income within an error of 10 per cent quite satisfactorily unless unforeseen circumstances arrive. It is possible in nearly all instances for people to estimate satisfactorily their income for provisional tax purposes within a margin of plus or minus 10 per cent. If some unforeseen circumstances should arise which increases income beyond that estimate, I know that the Commissioner of Taxation takes quite a reasonable view of this and rarely imposes a penalty if it is a genuine or unforeseeable error. 
I observe, following the recent publicity about impending significant borrowings by the States from overseas, that this also is in keeping with the new accountancy practices- if they can be called accountancy practices- which this Government has adopted of shifting as much expenditure as possible out of the Government accounts. Some commentators predict that the States will be borrowing $ 1,000m in the next financial year. If the previous practice had been followed and this money had been borrowed overseas by the Government then, of course, the figure published as the deficit would have increased by about 51,000m. The Government is following this practice, given its obsession with the deficit and its desire to fiddle with the figures, to present some cosmetic end-of-the-year result which it thinks will have some political advantages to shifting as much expenditure as possible out of the Government accounts- $ 1,000m from the States, $300m from Telecom Australia and so on. 
I observe also that even with all that fiddling the deficit for the first three months of this financial year already has reached $2.5 billion. According to the present Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  three years ago, the correct way to estimate the likely end of year deficit at the end of three months was to multiply by four whatever the deficit was to the end of September. If we follow that practice which the present Minister for Industry and Commerce said was the correct practice three years ago, the impending deficit that the Government is now facing is $10 billion. It also of course will owe, after it has finished its massive borrowing program in Japan, some $4.3 billion overseas. That money does have to be paid back. Our total overseas reserves at the moment stand at just over $3 billion. If one were to extend  Mr Fraser  's little homily on a national deficit being analagous to a household budget, or that sort of economic primitivism, into the international sphere one could indeed be arguing that the nation is now insolvent and will shortly be going into international receivership because overseas debts exceed our overseas reserves. 
-That is to get it back, is it? That apparently will be set against the $4.3 billion that we owe. I have little doubt that if the present Prime Minister were still in Opposition, if the roles were reversed, he would have no scruples about using that sort of argument concerning the level of overseas debt and the level of overseas reserves because it makes just as much sense as his analogies and his homilies about household budgets being analagous to national deficits. 
Looking at some of the specific measures in this package of Bills, one matter of some importance is the amount of non-farm income which may be included for primary producers' averaging. The amount which may be fully included has been reduced to $5,000 and then there is a shading in range up to $ 10,000. The Labor Party supports that measure. I personally wonder whether there is justification for even $5,000 being fully allowed, but we have not had sufficient time to study the implications of it to suggest a change. I do note in passing that that, of course, represents a partial correction for the panic which overtook the Government after it introduced its Budget last year and its sweeping taxation reforms which apparently had been cooked up in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet without the advice of the taxation experts from the Treasury. Of course, some major blunders were incorporated in the changes which  Mr Fraser  thrust upon the Government and the community. The Government in its panic, knowing that an election was looming, made massive and overgenerous changes to the averaging provisions for primary producers in a way which left them wide open to exploitation. This measure is to correct partially the Government 's mistake of last year. 
On the broader question of taxation, it is unfortunate that the most significant single tax increase which, in a full financial year, would have raised $800m in revenue, is not included in these taxation Bills. That, of course, is the massive increase in the crude oil levy which will affect the agricultural area for which I have a particular responsibility now. The cost of that measure to agriculture will be between three and four times as much as farmers get from the superphosphate bounty. I have noticed with some disappointment that the anger of the farmers throughout Australia about this totally unnecessary increase has been diverted by dragging a red herring across the trail. At the instigation of members of the National Country Party in particular who are in trouble in their own electorates the farmers have fallen for a trick and are campaigning for exemption for agriculture from this particular impost. It is probable that some crumb will be thrown to them in the near future and that they will be satisfied with it but their efforts of course are misguided. 
This measure is a revenue raising measure. It has nothing to do with conservation. As the responsible Minister admitted in this chamber last month under interrogation in the Committee stages of a Bill on a related matter, this increase in the accrued oil levy is to gain revenue. It is not a conservation measure. It is also totally unnecessary. We have this impost on the Australian petroleum consumer- farmers, country people, everyone in the community- because the Government caved in under pressure from BHP and dropped the resources tax which it had promised in the 1977 Budget. As the Prime Minister himself admitted the morning after the Budget was delivered, with respect to Bass Strait oil it was never a question of a resources tax or no tax. It was a question of a resources tax or a levy. The Government did not have the courage to impose a resources tax on the windfall profits of the oil producers and others who are mining mineral bonanzas. Instead it decided to impose this tax on the people of Australia. I am very disappointed, and it does not say much for the perspicacity of the farmers' leaders that they have fallen for this trick of agitating for some partial exemption for farmers. They will get a crumb out of that but what they ought to be doing is campaigning for the abolition of this totally unnecessary increase in the crude oil levy. They should stand up to the National Country Party leader,  Mr Anthony,  and the  Senator for  Utah and demand that they impose a resources tax on the windfall profits of Esso-BHP, the Utah Development Co. and similar companies and relieve the Australian consumers- farmers and others- of this impost which has been unnecessarily thrust upon them. 
The last matter on which I wish to make some brief comments- I will be brief because it has been pretty well covered by  Senator Button  and  Senator Evans-  relates to the changes to taxation provisions for long service and accrued annual leave. It is interesting to note firstly that superannuation has been left alone. There are no changes to the taxing provisions for superannuation payments. If that is regarded as a concession I can see no difference between superannuation and the other benefits which have been changed, such as long service and accrued annual leave. It just seems to me that there is likely to be some difference in the class of people that they would affect. Those who will be affected by the higher taxation on accrued annual leave are far more likely to be blue collar workers who do not have superannuation schemes. The provision with respect to accrued annual leave is of course retrospective.  Senator Townley  has had something to say about this. I do not know how many other Liberals will have something to say about it. 
I want to make it very clear that I am not against retrospectivity for taxation cheats. Indeed, my personal belief is that there should be a firm declaration of government policy that the definition of taxable income is subject to amendment at least during the current financial year and even for the previous year. If such a firm declaration of policy were made the taxcheating industry would be killed stone dead. It would not have a client left. But the people affected by this retrospective change to the taxation of accrued annual leave are not tax cheats. The Government itself had laid down the rules quite explicitly that accrued annual leave will be taxed although only five per cent of it will be liable to taxation. There was no cheating; there was nothing underhand, there were no shonky lawyers and accountants advertising their highly paid services to teach people how to cheat the Government. It was all done in the open and done honestiy. The Government has decided to crack down retrospectively on these people who were not trying to cheat and it is doing nothing really effective about the tax-cheating industry. But I guess we cannot expect taxation justice or any taxation morality from a government of which nearly all the senior Ministers, despite all their public posturing about cracking down on tax evasion, participate directly in tax dodging family trusts.  (Quorum formed). 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In case he is not aware of this, I preface my question by telling him that the Prime Minister announced in the House a short time ago that the Minister for Primary Industry would be leaving this evening for the United States. I ask the Leader of the Government whether he has seen the report in last weekend 's  National Times  that the Minister for Primary Industry would be making a statement shortly concerning his problems associated with the accounts of Allan Walsh Pty Ltd, funeral directors. Will the Minister for Primary Industry be making that statement before he leaves tonight for the United States? If the Leader of the Government does not know now, will he find out this afternoon? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
If, as indicated by the Minister's answer to Question No. 886 (Senate  Hansard,  11 October 1978, page 1254), the amount of $85.70 of his debt to Avis Rent-A-Car System Pty Ltd was not in dispute, why was the account sent on his behalf to the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
Did the Minister receive a receipt or any other record of payment for the amount of $1,265.90 referred to in his answer to Question No. 853 (Senate  Hansard,  27 September 1978, page 1031); if not, how is he able to be so precise about the amount paid; if so, why is he unable to state the date on which it was paid. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I ask why no Minister went to Washington earlier this month to try to head off congressional rejection of the ratification of the International Sugar Agreement which has at least equally serious implications for Australian exports as the beef legislation passed in the United States of America last week. Was it because there was no political need for any Minister to skip the country that week or is the Government disinterested in sugar? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
This might be an appropriate time to suspend the Senate. I could then make my remarks on this matter when we resume. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-We have had very little time, of course, to examine this report; but I would like to make a few comments. Some of them I make somewhat tentatively because I cannot be certain, in respect of some of the inadequacies or the dearth of information in the report, as I see it on a quick examination, that the information in fact is not available, although I have not yet been able to find it. I think it is unlikely that it is available, because the sort of comment I am going to make could be applied validly to previous reports of the Corporation and there does not appear to have been any significant change in this report, although I think there might be a little more detail. In particular it is difficult, as it has been in the past, to follow from the figures pertaining to finances and so on in the report precisely what has been going on with the operation of the Market Support Fund. What all the accounts mean might be quite clear to the people in the Corporation, but it is far from clear to the typical wool grower, although the typical wool grower may not look at the report, or to those ordinary wool growers who want to look at the report and inform themselves more adequately about the Corporation's activities. 
Something in which I am particularly interested is the dearth of detailed information about the stockpiling, the buying in and the subsequent sales from the stockpile by the Corporation. The aggregate figures are given, but we are not given very much detail broken down by wool type. In fact we are given no detail of purchases broken down by type and sales broken down by type and, consequently, of the trading profit or loss from within the stockpile according to different types of wool. We are given the aggregate figures, but that is all. The reason I am particularly interested in this aspect is that in the past the Corporation has set disproportionately high reserves for higher priced or fine wools, that is, those with a low micron count. That seems to have followed, or is perhaps an attempt to fulfil, a prophecy which, like so much of the industry's conventional wisdom, originated in the International Wool Secretariat in the mid to late 1960s. That prophecy which originated from the IWS was that fine wool prices would rise relative to other wool prices. That has not happened. One consequence of that long-standing misassessment of the relative price movements of wool was that at the end of 1977 about 25 per cent of the stock held by the Corporation was of the finest, lowest micron count wool produced, which represents 10 per cent of production; so that the Commission was holding the finer types of wool in stock disproportionately. I think that had been going on for some time. 
The present report, I note, does tell us that 25 per cent of the fleece wools currently held are 20.5 micron and finer. I am not sure- I have not had time to check this yet- what proportion of the clip is 20.5 micron and finer, but I expect and presume that that comprises about the 10 per cent of the clip which the Corporation has quoted previously. If so, the situation existing at the end of the 1977 calendar year- that the finer wools comprised 25 per cent of the stockpile but only 10 per cent of production- still holds. We are not told either the length of time for which the various qualities of wool are held by the Corporation pending subsequent resale. Therefore, we are not in a position to calculate the degree of intra-industry subsidy or cross-subsidisation from the producers of broader quality wools to the producers of finer quality wools, although a prima facie case seems to exist that such subsidisation has taken place. 
I note that the operating loss of the Market Support Fund for 1977-78, which in round figures is slightly below $10m this year, is a significant reduction on the operating loss for 1976-77. The value or otherwise of the Corporation cannot, of course, be assessed only on the size of the profit or loss recorded in the market support operation because that does not tell the whole story. It does not, for example, tell us the quantity of wool- it makes and can make no allowance for this, I believe- from which higher market prices were extracted as a result of the operations of the Corporation. We get some indirect indication of this from the section of the report which informs us that the Corporation in fact bid on 46 per cent of the wool offered at auction during the year but purchased only 14 per cent. The way that the Corporation keeps its accounts, there appears to have been some trading loss on that 14 per cent after allowance is made for storage, handling costs and so on, although we cannot be certain of that because the stockpile is a continuing exercise from one season to another. On the balance- the 32 per cent of the wool upon which the Corporation has bid- presumably a higher price has been extracted from the market than would have been extracted had the Corporation not been operating. I seek leave to continue my remarks on this matter later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
1 ) Are the premises of Peppers restaurant in the Canberra Arcade, Civic Centre, the only licensed premises in Canberra which do not have toilet facilities; if not, what other licensed premises in Canberra do not have toilet facilities. 
Does the Australian Capital Territory Liquor Ordinance stipulate that licensed premises must have toilet facilities. 
Does a sign in Peppers restaurant in fact point to the public toilet facilities at Garema Place, nearly half a mile away. 
What are the names of all personnel employed at Peppers restaurant. 
Has an application to open a shop selling health foods in the Canberra Arcade been rejected because it would lead to 'too much competition ' in the Arcade. 
The Opposition is not opposing either of these measures. The main purpose of the Patents Amendment Bill is to require publication of specifications of patents 1 8 months after the initial claim has been lodged, whereas I gather that the principal Act allowed the Commissioner of Patents to publish the specifications some time after 18 months- and he in fact had the option of how much longer after 18 months the specifications would be published. That requirement will now be mandatory. When the Patents Act is amended it will conform to common practice internationally, particularly in other industrialised countries. 
The purpose of the Trade Marks Amendment Bill is to extend the protection of a trade mark as an identification for a firm supplying services. It previously had applied only to products, goods and things. So where a firm supplying services is identified, favourably or otherwise, by a trade mark- I guess the firms that use trade marks would see them as assets and that the identification of a firm with the mark is favourable- it will be able to obtain the same advantages from the use of a trade mark as a firm that now provides goods. The Bill also provides for the removal from the Register, upon application, of any trade mark which has fallen into disuse. It also provides for a number of other similar modifications. 
I wish to make only one other observation. These Bills were among the first Bills which were referred to the Legislation committees of the House of Representatives. I must confess that I have not examined any of the  Hansard  records of the consideration of legislation which has been referred to those committees but I noticed that consideration of one of the Bills, the Patents Amendment Bill, occupied less than two pages in  Hansard.  The Trade Marks Amendment Bill provoked considerably more discussion. The Opposition is not opposing either of these Bills. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
Does the amount of $1,265 referred to in the Minister's answer to Question No. 853 (Senate  Hansard,  27 September 1978, page 1031) include any debts for hire cars incurred by him in the name of the Right Honourable J. D. Anthony. 
) Does the amount include a sum of about $950 incurred by the Minister in this way for the hire of cars for the use of himself and his wife within his electorate after 7 September 1973. 
Does the amount include any sum for the hire of cars in the name of the Right Honourable J. D. Anthony before September 1973, which was subsequently recovered from him by the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) Is any subsidy payable on the phosphate fertiliser triple superphosphate'; if not, why not. 
Under what conditions is a subsidy not paid on either nitrogenous or phosphate fertiliser. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 June 1978: 
What is the amount of revenue foregone by the Commonwealth as a result of the concessional rate of duty on tobacco imports paid by tobacco manufacturers under customs by-law which gives a concession to manufacturers whose products contain at least 50 per cent Australian tobacco leaf. 
I  present the following petition from 61 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled. 
We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Review the current Budget (1978-79) decision to index pensions annually after November 1 978 by retaining six monthly pension C.P.I, automatic adjustments as originally legislated and applied by Parliament here-to-for; in order to prevent cost-of-living hardship to all Pensioners. 
Review the current Budget (1978-79) decision to Means Test age 70 pensioners ibr automatic C.P.I, after November 1978 by retaining previous legislation (six monthly C.P.I. adjustments) as here-to-for; for all pensioner equity. 
Equalise automatic C.P.I, pension adjustment six monthly (in lieu of current Budget decision 1978-79) in line with the recent Commonwealth Arbitration Commission's decision for wage and salary six monthly hearing periods. and your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In answer to a question from  Mr Hayden  yesterday the Prime Minister stated, as he has done before, that  Mr Sinclair  had properly reported irregularities discovered when he became executor of his father's estate. I ask: Does the Minister know that the Kinnane letter published in full in today's  Bulletin  details prima facie breaches of the New South Wales Companies Act by Ian Sinclair after his father, George Sinclair, had died? Will he convey that new information to the Prime Minister, along with the question asked by  Senator Wriedt? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and I ask: Why does the Prime Minister apparently have two standards of ministerial propriety, one for the Liberal Party and the other for the National Country Party? If, as the Prime Minister claimed in the House this morning, no coalition agreement prevents him from suspending a Country Party Minister, why then has he failed to apply to  Mr Sinclair  the same standard as he applied to  Mr Garland, Mr Lynch, Mr Eric  Robinson and  Senator Withers? 
I wish to put in perspective a matter which has attracted considerable publicity in the last couple of weeks. As has been well known, for the last few months several Bills have been floating around the United States Congress, the object of which, in this United States congressional election year, was to impose, or seem to impose, further restrictions on the importation of beef to that country. Although the Australian Government must obviously have been well aware of this lobbying by the cattle States and the politicians representing the beef States of that country, at no stage did it think it necessary to send a Minister to Washington, or to the Congress, to make representations on its behalf or on  that of the Australian beef industry. It was also fairly widely recognised that most of this political activity in the United States Congress could be described as political stunting, grandstanding by politicians who represented the cattle States and who, prior to the congressional elections of next month, were attempting to ingratiate themselves with their electors. 
On 13 October the news came through to Australia that the United States House of Representatives had, in fact, passed a Bill which at least opened the possibility that, in addition to the restrictions already in force, Australian beef imports would be restricted if not immediately then at some time in the future. The  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  issued on 13 October a statement in which he referred to having just received news from Washington that the House of Representatives had passed a Bill that would modify the present law governing the United States meat imports. The final paragraph of that statement reads: 
I have recently made strong representations to the United States Government on this matter and am hopeful that these representations will be taken into account by the United States administration. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  who has often spoken and acted on behalf of the Government in matters of trade and trade negotiations, was in North America on 13 October, the day on which  Mr Anthony  issued that statement. The Government obviously did not consider it necessary to contact  Mr Peacock  and ask him to make any representations on behalf of the beef industry, or on its own behalf. In fact, no action was taken by the Government, either by way of contacting  Mr Peacock  or in any other way, on the Saturday, the Sunday or the following Monday. By Tuesday afternoon  Mr Fraser  had announced in the House of Representatives, in reply to a question, that the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  would be leaving for Washington that night- in fact I think he left the next morning- in an endeavour to have the matter 'resolved to our complete satisfaction' by invoking the presidential veto. Thus, after three and a half days of complete inertia, suddenly the matter had assumed, in the view of the Government, such urgency that the Minister must immediately pack up, leave Canberra and depart for Washington. It was not acknowledged, by the Government at least, that the fact that it was by then well known that the  Bulletin  was to publish an article next day had anything to do with  Mr Sinclair's  departure. The Parliament was expected to accept that, after three and a half days of inertia, the Government had suddenly decided that this was a crucial matter which required immediate ministerial intervention at a direct, fact-to-face, level. Even if that had been the Government's view, there were still some unresolved questions. Why, may we ask, was the Minister for Primary Industry, instead of the Minister for Trade and Resources,  Mr Anthony,  chosen to go. 
If we review the record of this year we find not only that  Mr Anthony  rather than  Mr Sinclair  has handled all other negotiations concerning beef sales on behalf of the Government, but also that of 2 1 'statements that have been issued by the two Ministers with respect to the beef industry and the beef trade no fewer than 18 have been issued by  Mr Anthony,  and no more than three by  Mr Sinclair-  facts which make difficult to accept the amazing conclusion expressed in the Melbourne  Herald  of last Saturday by Peter Costigan that  Mr Sinclair  was the Cabinet's beef expert. Indeed, in depicting the move in those terms,  Mr Costigan  was almost speaking like a senior member of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, which recently has developed an amazing facility for swallowing and regurgitating Government propaganda. 
Apart from the question as to why in this instance  Mr Sinclair  was chosen to negotiate on behalf of the beef industry or trade instead of the Minister who normally handled it, the action of the Government stands in stark contrast to its behaviour a week before regarding the International Sugar Agreement. The United States Congress had refused to ratify that Agreement. That action had potential consequences at least equally serious- certainly more so in the short term- for Australia's export trade than did the beef Bill which was passed 13 days ago. The United States Congress had the week before refused to ratify the International Sugar Agreement yet no action that we are aware of was taken by the Australian Government. Certainly, no Minister was despatched to Washington to lobby the Congress or the United States Administration, either prior to or subsequent to the congressional rejection of the ratification. 
On 19 October I asked  Senator Durack  whether the Government could explain the different approach that it had adopted as between the International Sugar Agreement and the beef Bill to which I have referred.  Senator Durack  asked that the question be placed on the Notice Paper. For technical reasons I was not able to place it on the Notice Paper and, I might add, I have not since received any other answer from  Senator Durack  or anyone else in the Government. 
While I am referring to the International Sugar Agreement I wish to refer to another peculiar occurrence. No Press statement on the ISA appears to have been issued by  Mr Anthony  or  Mr Sinclair  when the United States Congress failed to ratify it. However, last Tuesday, 24 October, I was very surprised to receive among the ministerial documents which are assembled each week day- nearly all of which were dated 23 October- a statement by  Mr Anthony  on the ISA dated 17 October. I would be interested to know the explanation for the discrepancy of one week between the date on which the statement was forwarded and the date that was printed on 
Other members of the Press who commented on this matter of beef exports were less compliant, I think one could say, than was  Mr Costigan  and the Melbourne  Herald.  For example, in the Melbourne  Age  of 1 9 October in an article with respect to  Mr Sinclair's  visit to the United States-  Mr Sinclair  was that day arriving in the United States- Creighton Burns said:  although they - 
The American officials-  are reluctant to say so publicly, they see  Mr Sinclair's  visit more as an attempt to impress Australian primary producers, and the Australian electorate than as a serious effort to influence American agricultural policy, over which Australia has only the most limited and precarious influence. 
One might interpolate that it was also fairly common knowledge that the soft option available to  President  Carter- that is, to take no action at all on the Bill- was the option that he would take. It now seems almost certain that he will take that soft option; that he will take no overt action on the beef Bill at all and that it will automatically lapse, as it would have done with or without any ministerial visits from Australia. In fact, in the  Age  of 23 October Creighton Burns expressed this view and said: 
The Bill has not yet reached the President's desk. When it does, he must sign it into law or veto it, either directly or by exercising a pocket veto- ignoring it for 10 days until it lapses automatically. 
I observe again in passing that I would have expected a journalist who has spent as much time in the United States as  Mr Costigan  had done to be a ware of that strong probability. On the same day, 23 October, the  Age  economics writer, Kenneth Davidson, commented on the visit and observed that  Mr Sinclair's  visit: 
. could even be dangerously counter-productive if US officials use the visit to pressure  Mr Sinclair  for greater access for US exports to Australia. 
There can be no doubt that the legislation, which passed Congress before it rose for the November election, will not be implemented irrespective ofthe actions of  Mr Sinclair. 
After various statements of that nature had appeared and other events  Mr Anthony  felt impelled to issue a Press release on 23 October in which he said: 
The Government would be grossly negligent if it did not take every available step to try to persuade-- 
He was referring to persuasion of the Americans. If that is  Mr Anthony's  view it begs the question: Was not the Government grossly negligent in completely ignoring the passage of this legislation in the couple of months it was kicking around the Congress, in taking no action in the time it was actually before the Congress, in taking no action on the day it was passed by the United States House of Representatives and no action in any of the three days thereafter? Indeed it took no action at all until Tuesday of last week.  Mr Anthony  then claimed that as a result of  Mr Sinclair's  visit there were some indications that our representations have been taken into account by the US Administration and that they would influence  President  Carter's decision; that is the decision which Creighton Burns had forecast he would take a week earlier, which was to take no action at all. 
Even if one accepts at face value- one would need to be at least naive, I suggest, to do so- the Government's assertions on this matter that the only reason prompting  Mr Sinclair's  hurried trip out of the country was the desire to negotiate on behalf of the Australian beef industry, there are still these serious questions to be answered: Why was no action taken? Why were no ministerial visits made when the beef Bill was before Congress? Why was the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who was already in North America on the day the House of Representatives passed the Bill, not asked to make representations on behalf of the Australian Government? Why was no comparable action taken when the US Congress refused to ratify the International Sugar Agreement? Finally of course there is the question of whether, in the particular circumstances which applied to  Mr Sinclair  at that time, it was appropriate that he should have been negotiating on behalfof the Australian Government on a trade matter if the matter was really important. 
One would need to have an extraordinarily poor opinion of the competence of the United States Embassy in Canberra to believe that it had not fully briefed the American Administration on the article which had appeared in the  Bulletin  on the day it was published and on other matters pertaining to the investigation of  Mr Sinclair's  business affairs. It might have been appropriate for  Mr Sinclair  to go if  President  Nixon were still in office, but given that  President  Carter is now in office the question must be asked whether a Minister who, to say the least is under some sort of cloud, is an appropriate Minister to negotiate on behalf of the Australian Government on an important matter, if one accepts the Government's assertion that this was indeed an important matter. 
Whether one accepts the Government's assertion on that, this incident raises serious questions about the credibility of future Australian trade negotiations. The Government, in this instance having used a trade negotiation as a tool of political expediency, raises the question whether in future Ministers who go away from Australia to represent the Government on serious matters on which representations by Australian Ministers genuinely may have some effect on policies adopted by other governments will be taken seriously by other governments. Will a foreign government say: 'Here is an Australian Minister negotiating on behalf of his Government and his country on a serious trade matter with a proposition to put before us who aims to do some bargaining with us. He has to be taken seriously. Australia is not a banana republic. He is a representative of the Australian Government and must be taken seriously. He must be accorded some credibility'? I would have expected that to be the normal reaction of the governments of the United States, the United Kingdom or just about any other country with which we have a substantial trade to visits by Australian Ministers on trade negotiations in the past. 
Given all the peculiar circumstances leading up to this visit by  Mr Sinclair  one at least would have to speculate whether in future Australian Ministers will be greeted with some scepticism by representatives of foreign governments. Foreign governments, instead of taking it for granted that the visit is for a serious trade mission, might start wiring their embassies in Canberra to find out why a particular Minister has found it politically necessary to leave Australia at that time. That is a very serious matter. It does not involve just the specific matter of beef imports by the United States. That was settled ages ago anyway. The Government has not done any harm to that; it has not done any good. But it has jeopardised the possibilities of success of all future Australian trade missions because we now no longer know whether trade missions from this Government should be taken seriously or viewed as some sort of politically expedient exercise. 
Some of the more gullible sections of the Press, I noticed, ran headlines such as 'Sinclair flies to rescue' and so on. I repeat the four questions I asked and invite any of the Government representatives to answer them. I ask: If it was considered essential for action at ministerial level on this matter, why was no Minister sent to Washington when the Congress was debating the beef Bill? Why was the Minister for Foreign Affairs not contacted on Friday, 13 October, when he was in North America, to make representations on behalf of the Australian Government? Why was not similar action undertaken when the US Congress refused to ratify the International Sugar Agreement? Why did the Australian Government for three and a half days after it was known that the US House of Representatives had passed that Bill take no action and make no statement at all? For three and a half days the Government rested on the statement which  Mr Anthony  had made on 13 October which referred to his past representations to the United States Government.  Mr Anthony  and the Government rested on that statement of 13 October for three and a half days. 'Then suddenly it would have us believe that it was vitally necessary to send a Minister, who was not the Minister who normally handled those matters, who was not in North America, but who needed to be spirited out of Australia for political reasons. 
The Opposition is not opposing the Dried Vine Fruits Stabilization Amendment Bill 1978 and the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Amendment Bill 1978. Both Bills continue a form of stabilisation scheme which commenced in 1971 in relation to some dried vine fruits products. The original 1 97 1 scheme operated on a basis similar to the wheat stabilisation scheme under which a levy was struck when world prices were particularly high. Payments were made to growers from that pool when world prices were extraordinarily low, those payments sometimes being supplemented by the government. This legislation continues such a scheme, with some modifications. One important alteration is that whereas the 1 97 1 scheme applied to raisins, currants and sultanas, this scheme will be restricted to sultanas. It extends the scheme for the 1978, 1979 and 1980 seasons. The base price of $5 15 established in the legislation will be adjusted upwards by cost changes, again similar to the way in which the wheat stabilisation schemes have operated for nearly 30 years. The $5 1 5 a tonne base price is some 20 per cent above the 1976 level. The Commonwealth contribution is limited to a $25 a tonne payment and to 60,000 tonnes. As I indicated earlier, the Government payment will be made if and when growers' funds in the stabilisation pool are exhausted. Previously the payments per tonne were limited to $23 and the quantitative restriction was 75,000 tonnes. The net result of those two changes is that the Commonwealth's absolute financial commitment has now fallen, even in money terms, from $ 1.725m to $ 1.5m. 
Some three years ago the Industries Assistance Commission examined the dried fruits industry and recommended that the assistance that had been received by the industry through the stabilisation scheme be gradually phased out. Although the Government has not formally adopted that recommendation in reducing its absolute financial liability under the scheme, one could say that in a modified form the Government is pursuing the objective that the IAC recommended. Fortunately, the present marketing position for the industry is quite good. Export prices for dried fruits, as anyone who has followed the industry would know, have been notoriously volatile over the years. I understand that the entire 1978 Australian crop has already been sold at quite high prices- way above the base price and in fact close to $1,000 a tonne, London price. Northern hemisphere crops being harvested at about this time of the year are very poor and therefore high prices for the 1 979 Australian crop are virtually guaranteed, even at this stage. Thus for the first couple of years it seems likely that some grower contribution will be made and that there will be no call on Commonwealth funds for the first two years. There is a strong probability that no call will be made on Commonwealth funds even for the third year. The industry is heavily dependent upon the export market quantitatively. Some 70 per cent to 80 per cent of sultanas normally are exported. Production has been variable both for seasonal reasons and to some extent because there is an option of either drying sultana grapes or using them for wine making. 
The final point I make is that in the! medium of longer term, if there were a substantial reduction in the number of sultana grapes being used by wine makers, there would be a danger to the dried fruits industry if those additional grapes were dried and then thrust upon the export market at a time when prices were less favourable than they have been this year and appear certain to be next year. Although the income position of many dried vine fruit producers, as revealed by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics surveys, appears to be alarming, there is certainly some indication that a proportion of the people with very low incomes have significant sources of off-farm incomes and are regarded more accurately as being only part-time farmers. In any event, the income problems of those with a small volume of output would not be significantly assisted by a greater degree of government financial assistance to the product. There is a great deal to be said for the view- in fact, as far as I am concerned it is quite decisive- that welfare needs should be treated on the basis of an individual's income rather than on the price of a commodity. 
The Opposition is not opposing the Bills. It is possible that no actual call will be made on Commonwealth funds. It appears almost certain that because of the present favourable marketing position the maximum financial liability of the Commonwealth throughout the three-year period will be the $1. 5m limited to the third year of the plan. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time, and passed through their remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to the substantial contracts negotiated by the West Australian Lamb Marketing Board for the supply of chilled lamb to a number of Middle East states. Has the fulfilment of these contracts been prevented because the Minister for Transport has failed promptly to approve back loading of charter freight aircraft? Is it correct as reported in the  West Australian Farmers' Weekly  of 2 November that the Minister's indecision will cost the West Australian lamb producers millions of dollars in lost lamb sales? 
I will speak only briefly to the second reading of these Bills. As will be seen from the second reading speech of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  the purpose of these two Bills is to clear up what was seen to be a legal doubt as to whether levies applied to dairy products for promotion purposes could be applied to cooperative dairies. The need for this legislation arose, I understand, because it could be argued that the dairy product at no time becomes the property of the co-operative. The research and promotion levy is paid by the processor of dairy products. A private individual or a private company processing dairy products actually assumes ownership of those products. There is some doubt about whether a co-operative actually assumes ownership of the product. The legislation will ensure that the same levy is applied to dairy products processed by co-operative factories as is applied to those processed by private factories. Therefore the Opposition can see no reason why it should oppose either Bill. The two Bills, of course, are associated; indeed, they are inseparable. 
The promotion of manufactured dairy products in Australia is handled by the Australian Dairy Corporation whilst the promotion of liquid milk sales is the responsibility of the State dairy authorities. The funding for the promotion of liquid milk sales is not directly covered by this legislation. There is some evidence- and I do not like to be seen to be indulging in carp and criticism- that both the State liquid milk handling authorities and the Australian Dairy Corporation and their predecessors have been perhaps less alert than they could have been in the area of promoting the sale of dairy products. For example, after a few decades of strong resistance to any sort of a deal with margarine manufacturers the Australian Dairy Corporation is now promoting the butter-margarine mix. It is recognising implicitly that margarine has certain physical advantages that butter does not have. Of course, implicit in the Dairy Corporation's involvement in this program is a belief that it would have been better for the dairy industry had it been less inflexible in the past and accepted that some sort of compromise had to be reached with margarine in the spread market. 
The liquid milk handling authorities are Statebased organisations. Although they are not directly funded by this legislation, the whole dairy industry is, of course, integrated. It is worth noting that last year, the Victorian Liquid Milk 
Marketing Authority- the State authoritylaunched a very successful campaign to promote the sale of liquid milk as an alternative drink to Coca Cola. The Authority was successful in pushing the consumption of liquid milk in that year some 9 per cent above its trend level. Given that milk sales return at least twice as much per unit to dairy farmers as do manufactured products, it is clearly to the advantage of the whole dairy industry to sell in liquid form the greatest possible proportion of total milk production. 
The Bills are designed only to remove what was seen to be some doubt about the legality of collecting levies from co-operative factories. The Opposition is not opposing the legislation. 
I wish to speak briefly- I trust that I will be able to finish before the suspension of the sitting- about the paper which was tabled this afternoon by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick),  of which the Opposition did not have a copy until some 15 or 20 minutes after its presentation. I refer to the paper entitled 'Loan Council Financing of Development Projects'. If this paper means anything at all- and there are reasons outlined in today's Melbourne  Age  why it may not mean anything- it is a clear repudiation of what the Government claimed was its central economic strategy of clamping down on public expenditure. This repudiation of government policy is hidden behind an elaborate facade built of accounting tricks. The impact on the money supply, the level of economic activity or the distribution of resources within the country of the spending of $ 1 58m on capital works funded by State government loans is identical to the spending of the same amount on the same projects with funds borrowed from the same sources but recorded in the Federal Budget, as it would have been recorded in previous years. The difference is economically meaningless but politically important; that is, if these transactions and expenditure were recorded through the federal accounts, the deficit would increase by the amount of this expenditure. This is a proposition to increase the deficit by $158m this year without acknowledging to the public that it is a proposition to do that. The fact that it is a proposition to do that has not been clearly spelt out by more than one or two newspapers and, I regret to say, was misrepresented by the Australian Broadcasting Commission yesterday morning. On its morning news service the ABC said: 
There's something in it - 
That is, the proposal-  for the Commonwealth too because overseas loans raised by the States wont affect the Federal Budget - 
That much of the Commission's assessment is correct. But the Commission went on to say:   . . and Fraser can allow big job creating programs to get under way without compromising his strategy of clamping down on public spending. 
The latter part of that statement is palpable nonsense. This proposition is the antithesis of the Government's strategy of clamping down on public spending. It is a mechanism for expanding public spending without that expansion being recorded in the deficit. But that is only a cosmetic adjustment. The underlying realities are unchanged. They are exactly as they would be if the money had been recorded in the normal fashion and the deficit increased to the extent of the expenditure on these public capital works. Of course, the Opposition does not argue that there is anything wrong with increasing expenditure on capital works. Indeed, the Opposition has argued quite strenuously for a couple of years that precisely this should be done. We welcome the Government's belated recognition of the truth of what we were saying, of the accuracy of the Opposition's diagnosis of the economy and the limited degree to which the Government has adopted the policies long advocated by the Opposition. I regret to say that the Government has not had the honesty to admit that it had repudiated its previous policies and is now pursuing a policy in the opposite direction to that which it said it was essential to pursue. I am disappointed but not surprised that the Government has not had the honesty to admit that this is what it is doing, that it is taking this devious way of increasing expenditure and has taken these elaborate measures to conceal the fact that effectively the deficit is being increased by this amount. 
It is also, of course, a panic measure arising out of the by-election results in New South Wales and Victoria in the last couple of months and the crushing defeat of the Liberal Party in the State election in New South Wales. As we would expect with a panic measure, there is very good reason to question the wisdom of the specific projects which have been chosen for funding as distinct from the overall policy of increasing expenditure on public capital expenditure. Whilst we approve of the increase in public capital expenditure, some serious questions must be asked about the viability of and the justification for the specific projects. The most outstanding example of this, of course, is the overseas trade display project of the Victorian Government. It is only by the most extraordinary manipulation of the guidelines which the Government claims to have laid down for projects of this kind last June that this Victorian project could be accommodated. According to the Government, projects must contribute to the development of Australia's natural resources and the balance of payments, must help to strengthen the structure of industry and must contribute to employment. Obviously only in the last instance- the contribution to employment- can the Victorian project be seen to be accommodated within those guidelines by any reasonable definition of what they mean. Incidentally, at no stage did the Commonwealth make it clear whether any one of those guidelines would be sufficient for a project to qualify or whether the project would be assessed by some composite consideration of them all. I think that a fair measure of the degree of desperation and panic which underpins this matter is that every project put up by any State government was accepted and approved. I note that the  Australian Financial Review  had the perspicacity in this morning's editorial to draw a very appropriate analogy with the panic funding of the Ord River scheme in 1967. There is this difference: Some private cost benefit analyses which had been done on the Ord River scheme and which were ignored by politicians of the day have since been more than justified. Since that very appropriate analogy has been drawn- it is one that occurred to me before I read it in the  Australian Financial Review-   think we might well ask about the cost benefit analysis for the $4 16m to fund the gas pipeline from Dampier to Perth. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting of the Senate I said that the Commonwealth's agreement to the funding of development projects by way of loans raised by the States was a panic measure directly attributable to the Liberal Party's crushing defeat in a Federal by-election in New South Wales, a State byelection in Victoria and, of course, the New South Wales State election. As we may predict with a panic measure, at least some of the projects have been hastily considered or perhaps ill considered. A prime example is the world trade fair building, as I think it is called, in Melbourne which has been appropriately compared to another panic measure introduced for purely political electoral reasons, the funding of the Ord River scheme in 1967. 
I think questions must also be asked about at least one other proposition in the package, that is, the $4 16m that is proposed for the gas pipeline from Dampier to the south-west of Western Australia. Of course, if this speech is reported and  Sir Charles  Court gets to hear about it, he will say that the trouble with some people in the Australian Labor Party is that they are knockers and they have no vision. But before  Sir Charles  gets too hypnotised by his own rhetoric, I suggest to any journalist who may interview him that he ask  Sir Charles  how the Ord River scheme is going.  Sir Charles  Court was responsible for that scheme and he said precisely the same things about the people who told him back in the mid-1960s that the Ord River scheme was not economically viable. So before  Sir Charles  is too enthusiastic in castigating what he calls knockers, he should be confronted with some of his glaring failures, the most dramatic and best known of which is the Ord River scheme. He was also responsible for the settlement of what he used to boast was 1 million acres of new land a year in the south of Western Australia. As usual, when that ill-considered settlement went bad in the early 1970s for ecological as well as economic reasons,  Sir Charles  attempted to hand responsibility over to the Federal Government. 
This leads me to the question which has not been answered in the statement- whether these funds to be borrowed overseas will be guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government against possible default by the States. Regardless of what the formalities might lay down, I assume that no Federal Government would permit a State to default on an overseas debt and that if any State were in a position in which it was likely to default, the Commonwealth would step in to prevent the default. Ultimately, the Commonwealth would probably be taking on financial responsibilities at least for funds that are borrowed overseas. That question has not been answered. If the States behave in the way they are accustomed to behaving, they can ingratiate themselves with their own electorates by funding pork barrelling projects like the Ord River scheme. Indeed, a number of State governments seem to have developed a very pernicious method of operation under which they bribe enough pressure groups and pork barrel enough electorates to gain or retain power. They then send the bill for their pork barrelling to Canberra. If Canberra will not pay they then pick up an electoral bonus by condemning Canberra for refusing to fill the pork barrel with which the States maintain political power within their domains. I suspect that there will be elements of this sort of pernicious irresponsibility in the policy which this Government has adopted in panic and in desperation. 
We have not been told who will carry the exchange rate risks if the money is to be borrowed overseas. Are the States to carry the risks of the likely further depreciation of the Australian dollar against most other currencies in which loans are likely to be borrowed or are the risks to be underwritten by the Federal Government? I wish to make two final comments. If the money is to be borrowed within Australia, this is directly contradictory to the Government's stated policy of forcing interest rates down or of allowing interest rates to fall down. Forcing interest rates down by decree is a more accurate description of what the Government is trying to do. If an extra $ 158m is to be recruited this year and $340m is to be recruited next year on the domestic loan market, it will be in direct conflict with the Government's stated objective of getting domestic interest rates down. If, on the other hand, the money is to be borrowed abroad- this has been left as an option- quite clearly this will add to the money supply. It will thereby be in conflict with the Government's stated policy of maintaining control of the money supply. The commitments, as far ahead as the Government says it will accept them in this proposal, severely or significantly restrict the Government's feasibility on such matters as the balance of payments, control of the money supply and the general level of capital works in the future. 
I would like to make reference to a few lines on page 7 of the statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on Loan Council financing of development projects which is before us. It stated: 
Loan Council acknowledged that the additional borrowings approved under this program will need to be borne in mind in considering the normal 'semi-government' borrowing program in June. 
I would like to know what that means. Does it mean that the $340m which is envisaged will be borrowed under this program next year will be taken out of the normal semi-government borrowing allocation? If this is the case the whole policy becomes meaningless, except that irresponsibility by particular State governments is encouraged. The statement continues: 
It was unanimously agreed that as Tar as possible, all capital equipment required for the projects should be purchased from Australian manufacturers. 
What does that mean? Does it mean that the Commonwealth Government will lean on the States to provide additional protection for Australian produced capital equipment? Whatever the arguments might be for or against providing additional protection for Australian produced capital equipment, it should not be done in this back-door, underhand way of leaning on the States and saying: 'If you want approval to borrow X amount of dollars, you have to guarantee to give a kick-back to some Australian manufacturer in the form of higher protection, preference to locally sourced products and so on'. 
Yes, or go without. Whatever the validity of the arguments about higher or lower protection, I hope that there would be general agreement, even on the Government side of the chamber, that this is not the way to pursue a high protection policy. If the passage that I have quoted does not mean that the Government envisages additional hidden protection wrapped up in this policy, I would like to know what it does mean. 
Finally, it is a panic measure. If it means anything at all, it entails a clear repudiation of what this Government has said has been its fundamental economic strategy in terms of restricting the size of the public sector and restricting the level of government expenditure. The Government said that government expenditure had to be restricted or it would crowd out the private sector and kill off recovery. The Government is now expanding public capital expenditure. While we in the opposition approve of that in principle, we assert that the Government ought to have the honesty to admit that this is what it is doing. Although the Government is doing the right thing, it is doing it in a bad way and for the wrong reasons. It is doing it for political opportunism. It is not doing it in a manner which is considered, rational or compatible with the national interest. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a first time. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I remind him that when the Minister for Primary Industry returned to Australia on 27 October he claimed that he had instigated all the inquiries into his business affairs. I ask the Minister: Is the Minister for Primary Industry claiming that he initiated an investigation into the transfer of some $164,000 from various funeral companies to the Sinclair Pastoral Co. during 1966 and 1967, that is, the investigation which the  Bulletin  of a couple of weeks ago revealed that the Corporate Affairs Commission was undertaking? If so, did the Minister for Primary Industry initiate that CAC investigation? If he did not initiate the CAC investigation what inquiry on these matters did the Minister initiate? 
At a farmers' meeting in Warrnambool on 18 April 1975 the then Leader of the Opposition asserted on behalf of the then Opposition that funds would be available for the purchase of land for up to 30 or 35 years. In  Mr Fraser's  1 975 policy speech he promised to 'establish a rural bank for long term finance '. For nearly two years after he became Prime Minister he did nothing in this direction. In the dying days of the last Parliament the Government hastily passed the Rural Bank Act. In  Mr Fraser's  1977 policy speech, he promised that the new bank would provide 'long term credit for up to 30 years at concessional rates of interest'. That promise is now, to use that delightful Nixonian euphemism, inoperative. It should be noted that the Prime Minister promised credit for up to 30-year terms and on concessional rates of interest. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  was once equally magnanimous. In the  West Australian  on 26 September 1975 it is reported that he said in Perth that 'a new national rural bank would provide long term finance to producers at low rates of interest'. The Primary Industry Bank story is another important chapter in the history of the duplicity of this Government in general. The Government's betrayal of farmers on the question of interest rates was the ultimate product of its earlier betrayals on the bank's control and structure. The initial legislation which was passed just a year ago made no mention of important details such as interest rates, equity capital distribution, the magnitude and source of funds for lending or the directorship of the corporation established by the Act. It said that there would be 12 directors, including a chairman and one other government appointee and two appointees of primary industry. Who the other eight directors would have been was, at that stage, a complete mystery. 
The 1977 Act explicitly forbade the Bank to deal directly with customers. It could provide funds only for what was termed 'on-lending' by the trading banks and other financial institutions. There is no doubt that the Australian Bankers Association demanded that restriction or that  Mr Fraser,  as is his custom when confronted by determined opponents who have some independent source of power, weakly complied.  Mr Michael  Davidson, formerly the  President  of the politically conservative and now amalgamated Graziers' Association of New South Wales and also a director of the Primary Industry Bank of Australia, on 1 1 August last said, speaking for farmers: 
The policies that we wanted adopted were not adopted by the Government. The Government chose to institute a bank that had largely been prepared by the Australian Bankers Association. I still say that we would prefer to see a bank with a different structure, a different board structure to more of a prime lending role. 
At that stage the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council was saying similar things. It appears to have changed its mind since then. I will give some details of that later. Denying the bank a prime lending role naturally induced suspicion by many people that the trading banks would simply use the rural bank as a receptacle for their bad debts. This was explicitly denied on 25 May by the then newly appointed  Chairman  of the Bank Board,  Mr Ives,  when he said: 
An impending borrower will go to his own bank and if that bank decides that his proposition is viable, then that bank will go to the Primary Industry Bank and ask for funds. But the prime lender - 
That is the trading bank-  takes the risk. 
Thus we have a farmers bank that does not lend money to farmers. The trading banks assess the commercial proposition and carry any risk of default. Money is lent at or slightly above overdraft and Commonwealth Development Bank rates of interest. Collectively, it is quite clear that these attributes leave no valid reason for the Bank's existence. The legacy of the Prime Minister's recklessly dishonoured promise is a totally superfluous institution which adds to the cost of finance by interposing an extra tier of bureaucracy between the borrowers and the money. 
After innumerable delays and postponements the Primary Industry Bank finally started operating this week. In the meantime in June the Government amended the original legislation. The amendments completed the Australian 
Bankers Association's domination of the new institution by giving the trading banks a clear majority on the board and giving the board more power over the conditions of borrowing and lending. It is no exaggeration to say that during this series of manoeuvres and betrayals the Government has been assisted by some of its more loyal farm leaders, the most prominent among these being  Sir Samuel  Burston, the  President  of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, who appears to have tailored his demands to what the Government has promised already. As the Government has progressively reneged on its several undertakings,  Sir Samuel  has obligingly watered down his requirements. In April of last year he was advocating, among other things, that the Commonwealth Development Bank be split in lieu of the establishment of a separate institution, that the interest rate paid on income equalisation deposits be increased as a result of their being made available to the bank and that there be, as he put it, predictability of financial arrangements from the outset. But by November, when the Bill actually appeared just in time for the election,  Sir Samuel  had come up with a completely new set of requirements which included 'facility for producers to approach the bank without first being referred by the trading banks' and a 'guarantee of increased skills of loan appraisers'. Neither of those requirements has been met. 
The next major re-writing of the proposition of the  President  of the AWGC on this matter occurred on Budget night. Within half an hour of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  delivering his Budget Speech, the AWGC issued a Press statement in which  Sir Samuel  said: 
I am particularly pleased that the Government has acted upon AWGCs representation to utilise lEDs - 
That is, income equalisation deposits-  as a means of reducing interest rates for loans made by the new Primary Industry Bank. As a result, interest rates will be set in the region of 9 to 10 percent. 
Strangely enough the same organisation was silent when the rate of 10! per cent was finally announced. A few days later, after the interest rate was set, the line which emerged from the AWGC was that the overall level of interest rates was more important than the particular rate of interest applied by the Primary Industry Bank in relation to interest rates in the community as a whole. On Budget night the important thing was that the use of income equalisation deposits would enable the rural sector to obtain an interest rate concession vis-a-vis the other borrowers. A few weeks later the overall level of interest rates was the important factor, according  to the  President  of the AWGC. It was perhaps fortunate that the Council had managed to get this idea around when it did because last week when every bank in Australia apart from the Primary Industry Bank lowered its interest rates the AWGC was still particularly pleased. Although the PIBA did not bring its rates into line with those of other trading banks until last night, the AWGC had no hesitation in issuing last Thursday a Press statement welcoming the 16  per cent cut in interest rates that at that stage had not been adopted by the Primary Industry Bank. Despite those valiant efforts by  Sir Samuel  Burston to sell the Primary Industry Bank and despite the Government's specious rationalisations of its switches in policy, the great majority of farmers know that they have been deceived and betrayed. Like other Australians, the farmers know now that the Prime Minister's promises become inoperative each election night. 
In the Budget Speech it was announced that $30m from the income equalisation deposits would be made available to the Bank at 5 per cent interest. This is to dilute the $50m to be obtained from the private loan market, presumably at interest rates of 9% per cent or  9Vi  per cent. Thus the average cost of funds to the bank will be below 8 per cent. Its minimum lending rate was to have been 10% per cent- it is now 10 per cent- which emphasises the fact that this phoney Bank simply adds to the cost of borrowing. It is very important to note that we have not been told where the $80m is likely to be lent in the first year. If all or almost all of it is not lent in the first year the Bank's impact on the total rural lending of about $3. 1 billion will be negligible, which emphasises again that the whole institution is an expensive political gimmick. If the $80m is lent this year, will another $30m at 5 per cent interest be available next year and for every future year if the Bank is to continue to lend $80m each year? If the Bank loses this cheap IED money its interest rates must go up by about 2 per cent, which would put them well above the overdraft rates and the term loan rates. The Bank's current interest rates are, of course, identical to overdraft rates and to those rates which have long been available from the Commonwealth Development Bank. In prime ministerial newspeak, all that will comprise a concessional rate of interest. I might observe here that the questions that I have just asked ought to have been asked by the agricultural Press and the farmer organisations, but they have not been asked. Whatever the answers to those particular questions may be, there is no doubt that $30m will not be available indefinitely each year from the income equalisation deposits. It is highly doubtful whether S60m would be left in the IED account next year if another $30m is required for the Primary Industry Bank. It must be doubted whether even S30m will remain in the IED account next year. The reason is that the tax advantages that these deposits once had were almost wiped out by changes to tax averaging following the 1977 Budget. The probability is that these IEDs will be substantially withdrawn over the next 12 months. They may be running down even now. As was observed in the  Bulletin  today, the Primary Industry Bank has broken the cardinal rule of banking in that it has borrowed short and it intends to lend long; it has borrowed virtually on call. 
On the question of the current level of the IEDs, I have had on the Notice Paper for two months a question seeking the monthly balance in this account over the last 12 or 1 5 months. It is question No. 784, if anyone wants to look it up. I do not believe it is conceivable that this simple, piece of information could not have been supplied within a week. The fact that it has not been provided in eight weeks certainly suggests that the deposits are running down and that the Government wants to avoid drawing attention to that run-down. The Prime Minister has tried to divert attention from his dishonoured election promise on interest rates by emphasising that money may be provided on long terms of up to 30 years. He alleges that the extended term is far more important than the interest rate. A few gullible farmers and journalists have swallowed that line. But what is the truth? Firstly, the Prime Minister promised both loan terms of up to 30 years and concessional rates of interest. More importantly perhaps, the Primary Industry Bank may provide loans on terms of up to 30 years. I stress the word 'may'; there is no obligation necessarily to do so. The Commonwealth Development Bank has long provided and still provides loans for up to 20 years at the same rate of interest. Thus the possibility now exists of the terms being up to 30 years instead of up to 20 years. That is the only change vis-a-vis the Commonwealth Development Bank as far as the borrower is concerned. 
On the mathematics of the question, the annual repayment of a loan, as I suppose most people realise, is affected by both the rate of interest and the term of the loan. What is less generally realised is that the higher the interest rate is the less important the loan term becomes. That is the way the arithmetic works out. Ironically at interest rates above 10 per cent little reduction in annual payments accrues from  extending the loan term beyond 20 years. In other words, what the Government has done in extending the term makes very little difference. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics report entitled  A Review of Credit in the Australian Rural Sector  which was published some time in 1977 makes this very observation. On page 5 it states: 
There is little reduction in annual repayments through extending the term of loan repayment beyond 20 years at current commercial interest rates. The major factor influencing annual repayments of long term loans is the rate of interest. 
If we look at specific examples of credit foncier arrangements, we will see that the annual repayments for a 15-year loan at a 6 per cent interest rate are lower than those for a 30-year loan at a 10 per cent rate of interest. The specific figures are $102.96 for a $1,000 loan over 15 years at 6 per cent and $106.08 for the same loan over 30 years at 10 per cent. At an interest rate of 8 per cent the annual repayments for a 15 -year loan are almost identical to the annual repayments for a 30-year loan at an interest rate of 1 1 per cent. So at current interest rates the extension of this term is almost meaningless. In this context the Government's claim that the loan term is more important than the interest rate is almost as counterfeit as the Prime Minister's election promises. Whether as an ongoing policy the agricultural sector should have interest concessions or cheap money must be seriously doubted for a number of reasons. Equity considerations aside, if as an ongoing policy money is to be made available for the purchase of land at concessional interest rates, it is inevitable that the interest rate concession will ultimately be capitalised in the price of land and that borrowers will finish up paying the same amount of interest on a higher principal and at a lower rate; and, of course, the initial equity requirement will go up. Moreover, many farmers are beginning to realise now that the interest concessions will adversely affect the volume of rural credit. In an article published in April of this year in the  Australian Journal of Agricultural Economics,  B. J. Standen of the New South Wales Department of Agriculture made certain observations in this respect. In an examination of the history of rural lending Standen came to the conclusion that interest rate concessions induced a greater proportionate reduction in the rural share of advances. Perhaps that is not put as clearly as it could be. But the point that is being made is that if there is an interest concession the volume of credit available will fall, which really is not surprising. In the same article Standen makes this observation: 
Farm Development Loans simply replaced overdraft advances; rural borrowers were not discriminated against in periods of tight credit; . . . 
That opens the possibility that whatever finance is provided by this institution will simply replace finance currently being provided from other institutions. But whatever the justice or the wisdom of providing or not providing cheap credit for agriculture, there can be no justification for cynical pre-election prime ministerial promises to deliver cheap money- promises which are inoperative as soon as the votes are safely in the ballot box. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 24 October 1 978: 
1 ) If, as stated in the Minister's answer to Question 909 (Senate  Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1370), the amount of $1,265.90 paid to Avis Rent-A-Car System Pty Ltd 'was settled personally and is of no concern to the  Senator', why  did he provide full or partial answers to Question 853, 871, 886 and 908 (Senate  Hansard,  27 September 1978. page 1031; 10 October 1978, page 1 184; 1 1 October 1978, page 1254; and 17 October 1978, page 1370, respectively). 
Why has the Minister repeatedly avoided disclosing, or refusing to disclose, the date on which the accounts were paid. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
On what volume of (a) diesel fuel; (b) aviation gasoline; (c) motor spirit; and (d) aviation turbine fuel: (i) was excise paid from 1968-69 to 1977-78; and (ii) is excise expected to be paid in 1978-79. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
Will the Report of the Ord River Review Committee be tabled in Parliament; if so, when. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer him to the latest issue of the Rural Industry Information papers which came out last month and which said with respect to dairy underwriting: 
The quantity of butter to be underwritten for 1 978-79 will be limited to 96,000 tonnes. 
I ask the Minister: If 100,000 tonnes is produced, which 4,000 tonnes will not qualify for underwriting purposes? Further, can the Minister assure the Senate that denying underwriting to any 4,000 tonnes will not breach section 5 1 (iii) of the Constitution? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
Did the Minister's Department seek from the Attorney-General or his Department a legal opinion covering the power of the Remuneration Tribunal to make determinations on any of the matters contained in its determination Number 1978-9; if so, on which matters was an opinion sought. 
What was the nature of the opinion provided. 
Was the opinion accepted by his Department. 
Was any other opinion sought; if so, from whom. 
What action was taken as a result of any legal opinions provided concerning the determination. 
Will any persons affected by action taken as a result of any such opinion be informed why they have not received the new salary rates determined by the Tribunal and therefore legally applicable from 1 July 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
1 ) From which countries does Australia import avocadoes 
In which of these countries are the diseases 'black streak' and 'sun blotch' endemic. 
What measures exist to guard against the introduction of these diseases into Australia. 
Is it possible that viable seeds from imported fresh fruit could transmit these diseases. 
Has any consideration been given to banning imports of fresh avocadoes from countries in which these diseases are endemic. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Has the Prime Minister sought or received from the Minister for Primary Industry a declaration concerning his involvement in the affairs of Allan Walsh Funerals Pty Ltd or Allan Walsh (Hornsby) Pty Ltd; if not, why not. 
Has the Prime Minister been informed of the identity of the person who authorised payment of monies allegedly misappropriated from the Walsh companies. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 25 October 1 978: 
1 ) Are foreign embassies or their diplomatic staff entitled to import motor vehicles under more favourable conditions than Australian citizens. 
What restrictions apply to the resale of such vehicles. 
Are embassies or individual diplomats required to notify the Department of Foreign Affairs or any other Department of the details of any such sales. 
Has any embassy or diplomat sold a Mercedes Benz 280 SE to any Government Minister; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 8 November, 1978: 
Did the Minister hire cars in the name of the Right Honourable J. D. Anthony for use in his own electorate between 2 December 1972 and 11 November 1975: if so: (a) did the Right Honourable J. D. Anthony approve of this practice: (i) in advance: (ii) in each individual case: or (iii) in retrospect; (b) did the Minister for Services and Property ask him to cease this practice; if so, when; (c) did the Government ask the Minister to pay any accounts received for cars hired in this way; and (d) did the Government seek reimbursement for any accounts incurred in this way which had already been inadvertently paid by the Government. 
-Did the Prime Minister mislead Parliament in concealing his knowledge of  Mr Sinclair's  far more significant involvement as a director of those companies? 
My question is directed the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It arises from the answer that he gave yesterday on behalf of the Prime Minister to question on notice No. 956, in which answer the Prime Minister referred to an answer he had given on 16 August last year. I direct the Minister's attention to the section of the Prime Minister's answer last year in which he said: 
The Minister's - 
That is,  Mr Sinclair  's- 
. involvement with the Allan Walsh company was as executor to his father's estate. 
Will he ask the Prime Minister whether  Mr Sinclair  at that time had informed him that he was a director of the Walsh companies and had been for some years? If he had not been informed, what action did he take against  Mr Sinclair  for his failure to disclose to the Prime Minister his pecuniary interests? If he was aware of  Mr Sinclair's  involvement as a director of the companies, why did the Prime Minister mislead Parliament by concealing the knowledge? 
As  Senator Bishop  has raised the matter of defence service homes I will add a few words. My attention has been drawn to a defence service homes village at Karawarra, a suburb of Perth in Western Australia. The selling price of the homes was substantially increased after last year's Budget because the Government decided that the land component of the houses would be priced at an estimate of market value instead of at the cost to the Government or to the Department as it was prior to 1977. There has been a great deal of criticism of the Government's decision to change the historical cost system of pricing. In this instance at least- I should be surprised if it had not applied in other instancesthere is prima facie evidence that the Government has over-estimated the market value of the land or the house built upon it or both. I am informed that 22 houses were offered for purchase and offers were received for only six of them. The obvious implication, of course, is that the potential buyers considered the price of those houses to be above market value. The Department then decided that it would call tenders for the remaining houses. 
I placed a question on notice about this matter a few weeks ago. I sought to establish what tender prices were ultimately received and whether they were below the prices at which houses had previously been offered for private placement. If the Government finally disposes by tender of the houses which it could not place privately, I suggest that it is at least morally obliged to make an appropriate refund to those exservicemen who clearly would have been overcharged for the houses they bought. I invite the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to make some comment. 
I speak very briefly about propriety and in particular about the evasion by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of questions which are clearly relevant to his responsibility as the head of this Government the standards which he purports to have laid down with respect to propriety by Ministers, and the alleged insistence by him of" the disclosure by Ministers to him of their business and pecuniary interests. 
On 24 October I placed on notice a question in two parts addressed to  Senator Carrick,  as the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I asked: 
1 ) Has the Prime Minister sought or received from the Minister for Primary Industry a declaration concerning his involvement in the affairs of Allan Walsh Funerals Pty Ltd or Allan Walsh (Hornsby) Pty Ltd; if not, why not. 
That the Minister for Primary Industry is and has been, since at least the early 1970s, a director of both of those companies is a matter of public record which may be ascertained by anyone who cares to pay the appropriate search fee and go through the records of the Corporate Affairs Commission of New South Wales. So I was not asking the Prime Minister to disclose details of  Mr Sinclair's  private business activities which were not already matters of public record. The question to the Prime Minister was whether  Mr Sinclair  had declared that pecuniary interest to the Prime Minister. 
The second part of the question was: 
Has the Prime Minister been informed of the identity of the person who authorised payments of monies allegedly misappropriated from the Walsh companies. 
In both of those cases, the only answer that was required was yes or no: Either  Mr Sinclair  did make a declaration of his interest in those companies to the Prime Minister, as the Prime Minister insisted that all his Ministers must do, or  Mr Sinclair  did not make a declaration. Either the Prime Minister has been informed of the identity of the person who authorised the payment of moneys which had allegedly been misappropriated or the Prime Minister has not been informed of it. A simple yes or no answer to both parts of the question is all .that was required. 
The Prime Minister's answer, however, was: 
1 ) and (2)1 have nothing to add to the answers I have given to two questions without notice on this subject, to the  Hon.  ?. G. Whitlam on 16 August 1977  (Hansard,  pages 9 and 10) and to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  on 24 May 1978  (Hansard,  page 2392). 

 Mr President, I seek leave to incorporate from previous issues of  Hansard  those two questions and answers. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

PECUNIARY INTERESTS OF MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT AND PUBLIC SERVANTS 

 Mr E. G. WHITLAM; I direct a question to the Prime Minister in the first question time in this Parliament 1 asked him whether the Government intends to proceed to implement the unanimous report of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament, whose members were drawn from both sides of both Houses in the last Parliament and whose report had been presented to both Houses on 30 September 197S. In particular I asked whether he had requested his Ministers to make declarations of interest which that Committee recommended they should make. He may remember that he replied that all Ministers had been asked to make declarations to him and that the recommendations of the Committee were taken into account in formulating that requirement. I now ask him whether the Minister for Primary Industry informed him of the full nature of his financial interests and responsibilities which have now been discussed in the media and how long ago that Minister first informed him of the changes in shareholdings and directorships flowing from changed family responsibilities? May I also ask him again whether the Government intends to implement the recommendations in the report 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER;The honourable gentleman has referred to a number of matters. So far as the parliamentary Committee's report is concerned, the honourable gentleman will know also that some recommendations were contained in the report of the Royal Commission on Public Administration which in a related way covers the Public Service. At the moment an interdepartmental committee is looking at the Royal Commission's recommendations and at the parliamentary Committee's recommendations to see to what extent they are compatible with each other so that the Government may be in a position to make a decision on the overall question of pecuniary interests in relation not only to parliamentarians but also to public servants. The honourable gentleman will be aware that it is not uncommon practice in a number of countries for public servants to be in a position of making statements concerning their pecuniary interests. It seemed to the Government that it would be sensible to proceed in parallel in the two areas- politicians and public servants- because obviously decisions relating to one would have significant implication on decisions relating to the other. In case the letter itself has not been tabled in the Parliament- my recollection is that it may have been- I am perfectly happy to table a copy of a letter that I wrote to all Ministers and to all later appointed Ministers to indicate the nature of the statement that is required of them. I will also table the covering letter to the Minister for Administrative Services who has the responsibility of seeing that ministerial staffs fulfil this same kind of commitment. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has made declarations, as have other Ministers, and I have obviously, in view of the circumstances of the past day or two, spoken to the Minister concerning these particular matters. I am not aware of anything that has arisen in recent days which would indicate that any elements of the declarations made to me were inaccurate. The companies with which I am advised the Minister is involved are private companies. They involve two or three families at most. 

 Mr Sinclair; They are proprietary companies. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER; They are proprietary companies. The Minister's involvement with the Alan Walsh company was as executor to his father's estate. I do not believe that matters relating to pecuniary interest should be pursued to such an extent that any member of this Parliament would be precluded from being an executor to his father's estate and from carrying out the responsibilities that are thereby involved. I think that that is a perfectly proper matter for any member of parliament or Minister to pursue. It needs to be noted also that to my knowledge this is the first government that has sought from Ministers a record of their pecuniary interests in a quite detailed manner and it is the first government - 

 Mr E. G. Whitlam;That is not so. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER; And in relation to Minister's staffs? 

 Mr Charles Jones; Yes, we did that. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER; That might have happened rather late in the day. But let me say that my Administration has taken these matters very seriously from the outset and, 1 believe, with a proper sense of propriety. I am happy to table the letters, as I have indicated. 

 Mr SPEAKER;The letters are tabled. 
I thank honourable senators. The crucial point of the Prime Minister's answer to  Mr Whitlam  's question is this sentence: 
The Minister's involvement with the Alan Walsh company was as executor to his father's estate. 
Nothing else in those two answers to which the Prime Minister said he had nothing to add had any relevance to the questions that I asked. The one crucial point which I have quoted seriously understated, to say the least, the true nature of  Mr Sinclair's  interest in those companies. The Prime Minister said: 
The Minister's involvement with the Alan Walsh company - 
The singular 'company' should have been the plural 'companies', but that is an excusable error: 
. was as executor to his father's estate. 
It is true that the Minister had a connection with those companies as executor to his father's estate, but it is also true that he was a director of both of those companies, at least since the early 1970s. Either the Prime Minister was aware of those facts or he was not aware of those facts. If he was aware of them he, to say the least, was less than forthcoming in attempting to answer that question. If he was not aware of them he should have been insisting that the Minister for Primary Industry give a satisfactory explanation of why he did not disclose those facts to him in January 1976. It is alleged that at that time the Minister lodged with the Prime Minister a full declaration of his pecuniary interests. The Prime Minister has said repeatedly: 'There is no need for Ministers to disclose publicly their pecuniary interests. I have insisted that they be disclosed to me'. We now want to know from the Prime Minister whether the Minister for Primary Industry disclosed to him his involvement as a director of those two companies. There is a simple yes or no answer which the Prime Minister refuses to give. He is dodging the issue. What is he hiding? 
The involvement of the Minister for Primary Industry with these two companies evidently goes somewhat beyond that which is revealed in the directorship of them. I have here a document dated 4 July 1978 and headed: 'Special Investigation into the Affairs of the Walsh Group of Companies'. It is sub-headed: 'Examination of  Mr Creighton  William Walsh held at Sydney'. The document relates to an examination conducted by  Mr M.  Finnane. Page 9 of the document reads: 
Mr Finnance: . . . Whilst I haven't finally come to a final determination of it, it would appear to me that the Sinclair Pastoral Company has been running at a loss for many years and has been heavily in overdraft, unapproved overdraft in excess of $100,000 for quite a while. It's perfectly obvious to me that this money, in the time of George Sinclair, was used to prop that company up and reduce its overdraft, and it seems perfectly obvious to me that since that time the money has been used for precisely the same purpose and also to enable a house to be purchased at Woollahra. 
Further down on page 9  Mr Finnane  says: 
I want to come to these particular transactions with you in some detail, but I find it very hard to see that there's been any great break in the way in which these companies have been running since George Sinclair's death. They seem to have been run in precisely the same fashion before and after his death and for the benefit of the same person really. I find it rather strange that members of your family aren't hopping mad about it, and aren't trying to get some of this money back. I don't know whether they realise that there's $600,000 or more involved. 
I am quite willing to table the document. I have it here. It is a one-page extract. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
Did a Minister of the Crown go to Washington earlier this month in an attempt to prevent the Congressional rejection of the ratification of the International Sugar Agreement. If not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
1 ) How many telephone calls were made by subscribers in: 
metropolitan areas; and 
non-metropolitan areas. 
What proportion of these calls was made within the following groups: 
up to50 km 
50-85 km 
85-165 km 
165-325 km 
325-485 km 
485-645 km 
over 645 km by both metropolitan and non-metropolitan subscribers. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
1 ) What has been the balance of the Income Equalisation Trust Account at the end of each month since its establishment. 
What total deposits have been made in the Income Equalisation Trust Account since its establishment. 
What 'expenses of borrowing' costs have been incurred by the Commonwealth, and paid in accordance with section 6 of the Loan (Income Equalisation Deposits) Act 1976. 
To what purpose have these funds been put. 
5 ) How much interest has been paid. 
I had not intended to speak during the Committee stage but one or two points still need to be cleared up. With reference to the general purpose payments to the States,  Senator Wriedt  was demonstrating that the promises of a more generous allocation of funds from the tax sharing arrangements were illusory; that in fact the States had received from that component of federal funds the pre-existing floor that was inserted by the Labor Government in, I believe, 1973. 1 am not quite certain of the date. The first stage of new federalism was sold to the States on the assertion that they would receive a significantly higher share of federal income tax and a significantly higher payment in real terms. That simply has not happened. In fact, the States' allocation of funds under this heading has been the floor which was inserted, at the insistence of some of the more perspicacious Premiers, in 1 976 and which applied to the previous financial arrangements I believe that expires in the next financial year. Some of the States quite properly are worried about what is going to happen after that. 
The other point that I wish to make with respect to the Bill is that its real purpose is to allow for an increase in public capital expenditure without the need for the Government to overtly repudiate the foundation of its economic policy for the last few years. It is a device for increasing public capital expenditure without increasing what is recorded in the accounts as the deficit. Its effect on the money supply, the level of economic activity and everything else is precisely the same as if the Commonwealth Government had borrowed the money and as if the transactions had been recorded in the national accounts and, other things being equal, had increased the deficit by exactly the amount which was borrowed. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on  25  October 1978: 
Has the Commissioner of Taxation applied for a grant of probate of the estate of the late George Sinclair of Lindfield, New South Wales. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on  26  October 1978: 
When can I expect an answer to Question No. 784. 
The purpose of these three Bills is firstly, to terminate the bounty payable on a restricted range of machine tools and introduce legislationthe main Bill being the Bounty (MetalWorking Machine Tools) Bill 1978- to arrange for payment, on a different basis, of the bounty in respect of a wider range of machine tools. The Opposition will not be opposing the measure. 
The major Bill, which replaces that which will be repealed by the associated Bills, extends a bounty in respect of all machine tools manufactured in Australia. The previous legislation restricted payment to only a portion of such machine tools. The bounty payable will be one-third of what the legislation calls the factory cost, which conceptually is similar to or probably identical with, the value added principle used by economists and accountants in other areas. In addition, the legislation provides for an allowance of one-quarter of the design cost of machine tools. 
The second qualification regarding the payment of the bounty is that it is to be paid only on that component of factory or design cost which is of Australian origin. In that sense it is compatible with the principle that the Industries Assistance Commission has been pushing for some time, that is the seeking of a common denominator of effective protection for the assessment of levels of protection. 
The IAC, in its report on this matter, which substantially the Government is implementing, argued that extending the range of bountiable products to include all machine tools would encourage the expansion of the more efficient subsectors of the industry- those within Australia that operate at lower cost- at the expense of those that operate at higher cost. That is a reasonable expectation but, as far as I know, there is no reliable indication of the extent to which that is likely to happen. However, I think that the idea ought generally to be accepted. The level of effective protection provided is between 40 per cent and 45 per cent which is, even judged by Australian manufacturing industry standards, rather high. 
The IAC suggested- and I gather that the Government has endorsed the notion- that a somewhat higher level of protection can be justified for these industries because they have some defence significance. Whatever merit that argument may have in the context of the matters under discussion, I have observed in the past that defence or a defence argument is frequently the last refuge of the high protectionist when a particular level of protection cannot be justified or rationalised on any other ground. As a general principle, the payment of protection by way of bounty instead of tariff should be endorsed because people are then more conscious of the true cost of providing protection. The degree to which people are not conscious of the cost of protection by way of tariff is revealed clearly when politicians assert simultaneously that they approve of high tariffs and of low taxes because tariffs are conceptually a particular form of taxation. They either raise revenue for governments or effectively subsidise, at the expense of final consumers, the manufacture of tariff-protected goods in Australia. So a far more honest way of providing protection is by way of bounty instead of the more common way of tariff. 
The estimated cost of this legislation is $8m a year, a quite insignificant cost when compared with the total cost of protection by way of the alternative form of protection- tariffs. I expect that the Government will not significantly change the emphasis in its protection policy from tariffs to bounty because, if bounties were to replace tariffs entirely, it is obvious that they would have to be a very much higher level of direct, open and acknowledged taxation levy whereas the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  can continue the present system, asserting that he is a low tax Prime Minister, while simultaneously being a high tariff Prime Minister. Of course, there is a fundamental contradiction in those assertions which, unfortunately, has not been properly exposed. I do not imagine that it will be exposed because that theory has been adopted again in this legislation. 
The reservation that I would like to express about the Bill is that, as I gather from a reading of clause 6, one-third of the factory cost, or value added cost, will be applied to the Australianproduced component of the items providing that Australian component exceeds 55 per cent. It is not explicitly stated but it is implied- and I think that I am correct in interpreting it in this waythat, unless the local component does exceed 55 per cent, no bounty will be payable. A similar arrangement applies to the Bounty (Agricultural Tractors) Act, the amending legislation for which was discussed in the Senate a couple of months ago. I make the point again that this is an irrational procedure which allows the payment of a significant bounty to a product which has 55 per cent local content but allows no bounty to a product which has 54 per cent local content. The incorporation of local content as a qualification to receive a bounty is consistent with the principle of effective protection expounded by the Industries Assistance Commission, but the insertion of an arbitrary cut-off point of 55 per cent or at any other level departs from that logic or principle. I have been informed that the IAC recommended the 55 per cent cut-off point but I have not today been able to obtain a copy of that IAC report. However, I request the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  when summarising the debate to clear up whether this is in fact the IAC recommendation. If it is, I am surprised because it represents quite clearly an illogical departure from the principle of effective protection which the IAC has expounded for a number of years. 
I put one other query to the Minister. I refer to clause 6 sub-clause (3) (d) which in effect provides that the bounty is payable if the tool is used or sold by the manufacturer for use in Australia. I assume from that provision that machine tools produced in Australia and exported do not qualify for a bounty payment. If that is so, why has that provision been inserted in the Bill? 
I ask the Minister for Science the two questions to which I invited him to respond in the second reading debate. I did say that if he preferred me to take up the matter in the Committee stage I would do so. The questions are: What is the anticipated volume of lending this financial year by the Primary Industry Bank of Australia? If most or nearly all of the $80m-odd is lent, is it expected that another $30m will be made available from income equalisation deposits next year and the year after? 
I wish to ask two other questions. Firstly, is it correct to assume that the Government has not got the faintest idea how much money will be lent or what the future source of funds will be? Secondly, is it intended to use the expertise of the existing assessors of the Commonwealth Development Bank in assessing the viability of propositions put to the Primary Industry Bank of Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will know that the wheat harvest has commenced in at least three States. Given that government spokesmen have been telling selected wheat growers for some weeks that the first advance will be $75 a tonne minus only half the rail freight to ports, why has no official announcement yet been made and when can we expect an official announcement to be made? 
Just a year ago the Bill to establish what was then the Rural Bank, and what ultimately became the Primary Industry Bank, was passed by this Parliament. Now, for the second time, legislation is before the Parliament to amend the original Act. The purpose of the amendment is to make available to the Bank for on-lending $30m from the Income Equalisation Deposit Account at an interest rate of 5 per cent. Towards the end of my speech I shall be moving an amendment to the motion for the second reading. That amendment refers to the failure of the Government to fulfil the pre- 1977 election promise ofthe Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to provide funds at concessional rates of interest. The amendment is in the process of being printed and will be circulated before I conclude my remarks. 
About three weeks ago when this matter was last discussed in the Senate- just in case somebody is interested in it- I was castigated by  Senator Thomas  for raising a matter of public importance and then having nothing to say on it because I had spoken for only 20 minutes. To set the record straight, the reason that I spoke for only 20 minutes was that there had been an agreement between the Government Whip and the Acting Opposition Whip to reduce the time available to all speakers on that matter of public importance. Apparently the other speakers were not aware of that agreement and I was the only one who voluntarily reduced the time which had been allocated to each  speaker. 
The promise that the Prime Minister made, and to which my amendment refers, was that the Primary Industry Bank would provide credit to viable borrowers for up to 30 years at concessional rates of interest. Despite all the contortions of the apologists for this Bank, as it finally materialised, no Government spokesman has established that that promise has not been broken. 
Quite clearly, it has been broken but the people who speak for the Government will not admit that. The first point I want to make is that the Prime Minister promised both concessional interest rates and long term loans of up to 30 years at concessional rates of interest to viable borrowers. He promised both. Apologists for the Government have endeavoured to get themselves off the hook on this issue by emphasising that, of course, by making available to the Bank funds for on-lending to farmers on long term and at rates identical to those charged by the Commonwealth Development Bank and by trading banks on overdraft, is in fact a concession. This, of course, ignores the fact that the Prime Minister promised both 30-year terms and concessional rates of interest. The Government certainly has not fulfilled that promise, and hence the amendment I will move at the end of my speech. The second significant point to note is that, with the high interest rates now prevailing, extension of the term of a loan beyond 20 years, which is currently available from the Commonwealth Development Bank, and even more so beyond 25 years, which is available from the term loan fund, has a negligible impact upon the annual loan servicing costs. I will say more about that later. 
Although the Government has persuaded a couple of people in the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council to support it in regard to this Bank, the fact quite clearly is that the great majority of farmers have not been fooled by the Government's attempts to get itself off the hook for failing to fulfil the Prime Minister's election promise. I notice that even within the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council there is not unanimous support for this Bank.  Mr Michael  Davidson, the  President  of the Graziers Association of New South Wales, a significant figure in the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, and one of the two farmer directors of the Primary Industry Bank of Australia, said on 11 August: 
The policies that we wanted adopted were not adopted by the Government. The Government chose to institute a bank that had largely been prepared by the Australian Bankers Association. I still say that we would prefer to see a bank with a different structure, a different broad structure to more of a prime lending role. 
Notwithstanding the fact that the Government has persuaded a couple of people in the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council to go in to bat for it on this issue, other significant people in that organisation are opposed to the Primary Industry Bank as it ultimately emerged. When we look at the other larger farmer organisations we find that  Mr Cassell  of the Cattlemen's 
Union of Australia succinctly described the bank as a sellout. In August, at the meeting of the Australian Farmers Federation, the executive of the Federation described the new Primary Industry Bank as being completely unacceptable to rural industry in its present form. Its present form has not changed since that statement was made. As recently as yesterday  Mr O'Brien,  the  President  of the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation, the farmer organisation with the greatest number of affiliated members, said: 
Upon direction from the AWMPF Annual Conference in May, and I should say with continual support and encouragement from your Executive, the AWMPF has pursued a very strong line against the Charter of PIBA. 
Those comments are taken from  Mr O'Brien's  address to the AWMPF conference in Canberra yesterday.  Mr O'Brien  continued: 
The Federal . . . Organisations, except for one organisation, were united in supporting the AWMPF against PIBA. 
I hope but I am not confident that we will hear no more of the nonsense that we heard from Government spokesmen a few weeks ago about this institution being accepted by farmers as the sort of institution they want or the sort of institution they were promised by the Prime Minister. Finally, of course,  Mr Sinclair  admitted in a Press statement issued on 7 August of this year that the Prime Industry Bank was not an institution to provide cheap money for farmers. If Government spokesmen want to try to get the Prime Minister off the hook for the Government's failure to honour his election promise, or if they want to assert that the Government has in fact kept its promise, they should also explain why  Mr Sinclair  made that admission on 7 August. The essential point to remember about the promise is, of course, that  Mr Fraser  promised both concessional interest rates and 30-year terms. The Bank is empowered to lend for up to 30 years- whether it actually does is another matter- but the interest rates which will apply are identical to those for the Commonwealth Development Bank and trading bank overdrafts. Extending the term of a loan beyond 20 years at prevailing interest rates has a negligible impact on annual repayments. 
Of course, the question of whether there is justification for making finance available to agriculture as a continuing policy is a matter of opinion. Indeed, there is a number of sound arguments against an ongoing policy of making funds available to agriculture at concessional rates of interest. Firstly- many farmers are coming to be aware of this- it was set out clearly in an article by B. J. Standen in the  Australian Journal of Agricultural Economics  in April of this year that making funds available to agriculture at concessional rates of interest causes a shortage of finance in agriculture. This is only to be expected. If interest rates are arbitrarily set at low levels, it is quite predictable that less money will be made available for lending in the agricultural sector than if interest rates are not arbitrarily set at low levels. Standen also made the point that increasing the availability of finance to agriculture from government or semi-government sources has the effect of crowding out private finance. To use a term favoured by the Government in a different context, finance from private trading banks previously made available as overdrafts has been crowded out by funds made available by government or semi-government bodies such as the Primary Industry Bank, the Commonwealth Development Bank and the rural reconstruction authorities. 
The second point that should be noted is that if funds are made available at concessional rates of interest for the purchase of land it is almost inevitable that that concession will be capitalised in the price of land, that the equity requirement of people who want to buy land will go up- it will make it more and not less difficult for people to buy agricultural land- and the amount paid in interest will finish up being about the same except that the rate of interest will be lower and the principal will be greater. Concessional rates of interest have a regressive effect on the distribution of income in the farming community. This was studied by C. B. Baker and in an article published in the  Australian Journal of Agricultural Economics  in 1974 he established that in fact the smaller farmers are less likely to owe money than the larger farmers and, as the smaller farmers have lower incomes than the larger farmers, the effect within the farming community of making funds available at concessional rates of interest is to give proportionately greater benefits to the larger, high income farmers than to the smaller, low income farmers. There is a widespread but fallacious belief that it is the smaller farmers who owe a good deal of money. The fact is the reverse. The larger farmers are more likely to owe money than the smaller fanners. That is not surprising because the major reason they owe money is that to become larger farmers they purchase land and other equipment. Of course, if the margin of return to investment in agriculture is low it is a market signal against investing further funds in agriculture. It certainly does not justify a policy aimed at resisting that market signal by encouraging further investment in agriculture. Likewise, if agriculture is losing its comparative advantage, that is a signal to restrict or to reduce the amount of investment in agriculture, not a signal to increase it. 
The arguments I have outlined against providing finance at concessional interest rates to agriculture as an on-going policy are sound. They are accepted by many people associated with the provision of finance to agriculture. They seem to be accepted by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and are accepted, indeed, by a significant number of farmers. But whatever the merits or demerits of providing funds at concessional interest rates, there is no excuse for making extravagant promises, as the Prime Minister did just a year ago, which become inoperative as soon as the votes are safely in the ballot box. That is precisely what happened in this instance. 
On the broader question of interest rates, in the last fortnight we have seen some financial institutions, under a great deal of political pressure, reduce their nominal interest rates. But one little trick with respect to overdraft rates pointed out in the  Australian Financial Review  a couple of weeks ago is worth repeating. The banks of course are only acting under pressure. Interest rates have been forced down by political fiat and not by market forces and the trading banks have resisted this. 
Just hear me out. I have said that nominal interest rates have come down. Whether real interest rates come down is another matter, because this little trick operates in this way: Somebody is granted an overdraft of $100,000 at 10 per cent interest. The bank then insists that $25,000 of that $100,000 be deposited with the bank on fixed deposit at seven per cent interest. That is part of the deal. The outcome of course is that the real rate of interest being charged is 1 1 per cent and not 10 per cent. 
The other point about interest rates in general is that the Prime Minister appears to be unaware of the mutual exclusiveness of his policy of attempting to maintain the international value of the Australian dollar and his populist policy of forcing down interest rates in Australia by fiat. The only reason that as much private capital has been persuaded either to come to Australia or to remain in Australia over the last couple of years, knowing, as everybody does, that the Australian dollar is weak and is likely to be devalued is that there has been a significant interest differential between Australia and the countries from which that capital usually comes. Generally the interest rates in Australia have been higher than the interest rates overseas by a margin of three per cent or four per cent. That gap has now closed. If political fiat, disguised as something else, forces interest rates in Australia down, one of the consequences will be a worsening of our balance of payments position and a strengthening of pressure for devaluation of the dollar. The simple fact is that, given our continuing adverse balance on current account, a policy of forcing interest rates in Australia down is not viable unless the dollar is devalued.  Mr Fraser  appears to believe that he can do both- maintain the exchange rate and force interest rates down. The two policies are mutually exclusive, and they will not last. 
The confusion within the Government ranks over this legislation was brought out in the debate in the House of Representatives. I was sur.pised, to say the least, that the leading  speaker  for the Government after the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  was  Sir William  McMahon, whose activities these days seem mainly to be directed toward preserving the rorts cf tax dodgers. 
-Oh, yes, I know that. But the passage I am about to quote says something about the confused state of  Sir William  McMahon 's thinking on the matter. The passage I will quote afterwards from  Mr Short  establishes the confusion between different members of the Government on this matter.  Sir William,  in referring to his term of office as Minister for Primary Industry, which I think was in the late 1950s, said that - 
That is a good question, but  Senator Archer  should direct it to McMahon because he raised the matter in the House of Representatives. That is a fair question, but the honourable senator should not direct it to me. He should direct it to the person who put these remarks into the  Hansard  record.  Sir William  McMahon said: 
It was my intention that it - 
That is, the Commonwealth Development Bank-  should relate only to primary industry. I ask our mate from Parramatta: Can you get that? Need there be any further justification for one 's belief in the primary industries, their basic role in this country and the wish to protect them? I remember these words, and they will be written on my heart when I die: 
The function was to provide finance for persons for the purpose of primary industry, and for no other purpose. That is why the Development Bank was created. The man who gave me the inspiration was  Dr Strong  of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. 
I must admit that by the time the law came in- I was then Minister for Primary Industry- someone had added 'also for the establishment and development of industrial undertakings'. That hurt my feelings because I did not want anyone else to get any of this money that was to be provided by the Development Bank. So to suit me 'particularly small business undertakings' was added. That was something that I had to accept because we wanted a primary industry bank. That was the origin of a primary industry bank in this country of ours. 
Ignoring all the gibberish that preceded the last sentence, that was the origin, said  Sir William  McMahon, of a primary industry bank in Australia- that was the Commonwealth Development Bank- in 1959. The next Government  speaker  was the honourable member for Ballarat,  Mr Short,  who said: 
I emphasise that this is the first time in the history of this nation that the rural sector has had its own specialist nationwide bank. 
The first quote says something about  Sir William's  confused thinking on the whole matter and the two quotes together show us something about the confused thinking of the whole Government on this matter when it cannot decide whether this is or is not the first time that agriculture has had a primary industry bank. 
There is one other comment I must make on  Sir William's  address, since he was the leading  speaker  for the Government on this subject. He disputed whether the Australian Labor Party was in fact responsible for the introduction of a reserve floor price for wool. 

 - Senator Archer may well ask: What has this got to do with the Primary Industry Bank? But again that question should not be directed to me; it should be directed to  Sir William  McMahon. 

 -Well, Senator Archer should ask  Sir William  McMahon the next time he gets the opportunity. I cannot speak on  Sir William  's behalf.  Sir William  said: 
He-  that is,  Mr John  Brown, who preceded him in the debate-  said that the Australian Labor Party introduced the policy with regard to a reserve price for wool. I hope that none of my senior colleagues are here, but I happened to be the Prime Minister at the time. We had two difficulties. I was Prime Minister when the price of wool dropped to below 40c per lb and without any legislative authority- I say it in this 
House- I approved of$250m being applied, as honourable members will know . . . 
Given the sorts of things that were being said about three years ago, that is a very interesting assertion from a former Liberal Prime Minister that $250m of taxpayers' funds were committed without any legislative authority. 
To correct  Sir William  on a point of history, I point out that the Australian Wool Corporation is under no such delusions about who introduced the reserve price for wool. In its updated marketing report which came out at the end of last month, the Corporation identified three periods with respect to wool marketing. The first was the decade that ended in 1970 prior to the reserve price scheme. The second was a reserve price scheme without a guaranteed minimum. The third was a reserve price scheme with a guaranteed minimum. A footnote relating to the second period, that is, the period to which  Sir William  McMahon referred, said: 
During 1971 the Australian Wool Commission declared that it would not allow reserves to fall further, but the declaration was without legislative backing or formal guarantee. 
In the Government's attempt to escape from the embarassment of its failure to honour the Prime Minister's 1977 election promise, under this legislation it concentrates on the extension of the term of loan to a maximum of 30 years. Previous comparable maximum terms were 20 years from the Commonwealth Development Bank and 25 years from the Farm Development Loan Fund. Government spokesmen have asserted frequently that this extension up to 30 years, or beyond 20 years, is quite crucial. In fact, at prevailing interest rates, extending it beyond 20 years has a negligible impact on the loan's annual servicing costs, a fact which the Bureau of Agricultural Economics noted in its 1977 study on rural credit when it said: 
There is little reduction in annual repayments through extending the term of loan repayment beyond 20 years on current commercial interest rates. The major factor influencing annual repayment of long term loans is the rate of interest. 
I have here a table which I invite the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  to look at because shortly I will seek leave to incorporate it in  Hansard.  It brings out this arithmetic fact. The point to which I want to draw attention particularly is that at an interest rate of 6 per cent on a 1 5-year term loan the annual servicing charge is lower than it is for a 30-year term at a 10 per cent rate of interest. So even beyond 15 years at a 10 per cent rate of interest, extension of the term has little impact. In fact a doubling of the period of repayment from 15 years to 30 years does not offset the difference between 6 per cent and 10 per cent rates of interest. That is an arithmetic fact. Now that the Minister has had a chance to look at the table, I seek leave to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="079232197811211_42_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Senate. 
It has been extracted from credit foncier tables, but one does not have to prove a multiplication table to work it out for one's self. Provided one has the necessary arithmetic skill one can prove the figures for one 's self if one doubts their authenticity. If one seeks leave to incorporate the multiplication table I do not think one is obliged to give its cited source. 
Which comment? 
The Minister is making an assertion. I am just asking him to clarify it. The important thing this table shows is that doubling the term of repayment from 15 years to 30 years is less important, in terms of the annual servicing charge, than reducing the interest rate from 10 per cent to 6 per cent. Those arithmetic facts are not as yet widely known and, if I may say so, the agricultural Press has been more than a little remiss in not making them more widely known than it has. The facts have been drawn often enough to the attention of the agricultural Press. 
I want to take up two other matters. If the Minister likes to deal with these questions during the Committee stage I am quite happy to ask them then. I would like to know the anticipated volume of lending by the Bank in its first year. The Bank has funds totalling about $86m, being $6m equity share capital, $50m that it plans to raise from the commercial loan market and $30m from the income equalisation deposits that are to be made available under this amending Bill. I would like to know whether it is envisaged that most or nearly all of that $86m will be loaned by the Bank in the first year. If not, I visualise that the Bank will have a negligible impact on total rural credit which stands now at about $3.1 billion. On the other hand, if it is planned to loan most or nearly all of the $86m this year, what sources of funds will be available to the Bank next year? In particular, will another $30m from income equalisation deposits be made available to the Bank next year to enable it to keep its interest charge to the customer down to 10 per cent or 12 per cent? Unless further funds are made available from income equalisation deposits it will not be possible to maintain those interest rates at rates identical to overdraft rates without some overt subsidy. This is an important question which again has received no attention. Further, what plans exist to cope with a rundown in the income equalisation deposits? 
After a couple of months I finally got an answer last week to my question on notice on this subject. Whilst the current balance of the IEDs is at a higher level that it was 12 months ago, it is significantly lower than it was in the NovemberDecember January period. I know that there is probably a seasonal factor at work here and that we will not be able to identify it accurately until the deposits have been running for some time, but in looking at this table one can see that there is absolutely no justification for concluding that the amount of money in the IEDs is likely to go up and there is some suspicion that it is likely to drop. The balance at the end of September was just over $60m. There is at least a possibility that the balance will get below $60m at some time in the not-too-distant future, which obviously would make it impossible for a further $30m to be advanced from this income equalisation account to the Primary Industry Bank. If the Bank does not get funds from this source it will not be able to maintain its existing interest rates, which in any case are only identical to overdraft rates and not concessional. My foreshadowed amendment has now been circulated. To the motion 'that the Bill be now read a second time ' I move: 
At end of motion, add-  but the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill takes no account of the Prime Minister's 1977 election promise to provide through the Primary Industry Bank long term credit at concessional interest rates '. 
I do not think this session ofthe Parliament should be allowed to close without some comments being made on a book which is soon to be released and from which extracts are currently being serialised in two or three newspapers. I refer, of course, to  Sir John  Kerr's book  Matters for Judgment: an autobiography  which purports to reveal the facts pertaining to the events of 1 1 November 1975 and the events leading up to that date. I forecast that one very important fact which will not be revealed in this book is that there were two telephone calls between  Sir John  and  Mr Fraser  on the morning of 11 November 1975, of which  Senator Withers  informed a number of journalists at a party in his office on the night of 8 August. In the publicity for the extracts which are being published in its newspaper the Melbourne  Age  of last Wednesday quoted  Sir John  as saying 'I have always been a person vigorously interested in currency'. Ironically, in the memoirs published so far  Sir John  strongly objects to being thought of as venal. He may object but he should not be surprised. After all, the way in which his book was prepared provides us with some insight into just how currency conscious he is. The book was prepared substantially at the taxpayers expense, as was revealed in an issue of the  Laurie Oakes Report  of 1 November. Under the heading 'Transactions on the taxpayer', Oakes wrote: 

 Sir John will make a great deal of money from the book, which purports to "tell all" about his controversial dismissal of the Whitlam Government. Ironically, he was able to get much of the work involved in assembling his recollections done at the taxpayers expense. He did this by dictating his recollections into a tape recorder and giving the tapes to the Oral History section of the National Library. The Library transcribed the tapes and gave  Sir John  copies. They amounted to a first draft of the memoirs, and cost the author nothing. 
In other words, the National Library of Australia has provided a free typing service. The instalment of the memoirs published in the Mebourne  Age  and the  Sydney Morning Herald  on Monday gave yet another indication of  Sir John's  currency consciousness. He went to a good deal of trouble to try to convince us that he was in no way responsible for the lavish terms and salary offered to him before he agreed to become Governor-General. He would have us believe that he had them thrust upon him by  Mr Whitlam.  He neglected to mention that the salary was almost doubled at the time he took the job and the pension, which made future employment possible but unnecessary, was lifted to about three times the level of the average weekly wage and is linked to the salary of the Chief Justice so that it increases substantially year by year. If we accept  Sir John's  account we are left with the impression that  Mr Whitlam  had to twist his arm to get him to accept the lavish offer. We are also told by  Sir John  that the offer was first made by  Mr Whitlam  at dinner. If that is so, and if normal conditions applied, it is probable that  Sir John  would have had a very cloudy recollection of what happened at dinner. I might mention that the only time on which I spoke to  Sir John  Kerr was at a function at Government House in September 1974. It was 7.30 p.m. He was drunk. At the time I was surprised. Later I learned that normally he was drunk at that time of the day. Still later I learned that he was frequently drunk any time after lunch, and he demonstrated that very convincingly to the whole of the nation at the Melbourne Cup last year. He has, of course, degraded the office of Governor-General to the considerable embarrassment of the incumbent. 
The Opposition is not opposing any of the three Bills which are currently before the Senate. I think one can fairly say that the major Bill is the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill, the purpose of which is to increase the levy struck on sheep, goats and cattle which are slaughtered for the purposes of meat and meat processing research. The Live-stock Export Charge Amendment Bill provides for a comparable levy on animals which are exported live. These Bills do not increase the livestock levy struck to fund the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation per se to cover its administrative expenses, although the Government has forecast an intention to introduce legislation in the near future to increase the levy for the administration of the AMLC. Given the fact that the Government has forecast its intention to introduce further amending legislation, I am somewhat puzzled by the decision to double the levy applicable for sheep slaughter when only half the existing maximum levy is being applied. Perhaps that is something the Minister might take up when he is replying to the second reading stage of the debate. One would assume, since only half the existing maximum levy is applied, that there is no need at this time to provide for a further increase in the levy. Anyway, the Government has forecast its intention to amend this legislation further in the not too distant future. I wonder, therefore, why the decision has been taken to increase the levy on sheep slaughter at this stage. The maximum levies under the Act as it stands have been generally doubled. It should be noted, of course, that the fact that the maximum has been doubled does not necessarily mean that the actual levy applied will be doubled, at least not immediately, except in the case of research for meat processing where the levy has been increased- in fact it has been quadrupled. 
Although these Bills will not directly provide the funds for the administration of Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation they are, of course, related to the operations of the Corporation and the levies are being increased at its request. I will take this opportunity to make a couple of brief comments on the AMLC's annual conference held in Sydney last Thursday. I attended the conference and, in particular, I was most disturbed by a comment made not by a member of the Corporation but by a member of one of the informal producer consultative groups. I refer to a comment made by  Mr Bargwanna,  the  chairman  of what I think is the meat exporters and abattoir proprietors consultative group. He expressed the view that competition was the lifeblood of our economic system and spoke at some length about what he say as the danger of statutory regulation. That sort of belief is common enough and it is expressed commonly enough. But what disturbed me in this context was that if  Mr Bargwanna  's statements are to be taken seriously, of if he means them to be taken seriously, it is quite clear that he is advocating the removal of the regulation of beef exports. 
Beef exports to the higher priced markets in North America and Japan have been regulated for many years and for very good reason by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation, a statutory body, and its predecessor, the Australian Meat Board, which also was a statutory body. Therefore in warning about the dangers, as he saw them, of statutory regulation, it appears quite clear that  Mr Bargwanna  is arguing that the AMLC should cease regulating beef exports to those high price markets. The effect of such a withdrawal by the AMLC or a reversion to the free market so far as we, the sellers, are concerned, would, of course, be to transfer enormous profits to those who manage to import the meat into the United States. It would transfer the benefit of the high price market from the Australian exporter, and hopefully the Australian cattle producer, to the person who held the import quota at the other end, in a similar way to the distribution of the benefits of import quotas into Australia in respect of textiles. 
I find it most disturbing that such a view should be put forward by a man who, although not a member of the Corporation, is closely associated with the Corporation. I trust I am wrong in my interpretation. If I am wrong in interpreting  Mr Bargwanna  's remarks as being critical of the principle of regulating exports to those high price markets, I trust he will qualify them. If he does so I hope he will make it quite clear that in criticising statutory regulation he was doing so in a selective way and that in fact he approves of statutory regulation of beef exporters by the AMLC. I hope he will take the opportunity to clear up this matter. 
The third Bill which I want to mention is the Livestock Diseases Bill, the purpose of which is to provide the same disease controls in the Territories- the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory- as presently apply in the States. The Opposition sees no reason to oppose that Bill either. I want to make a couple of brief comments about livestock disease control in Australia. In particular I want to refer to an incident- I know there is less than total agreement about the facts on this issue- that occurred on Sunday, 19 January 1976 when fowl plague was diagnosed in Victoria as a result of which some 60,000 birds ultimately were slaughtered. I am informed that the State Department of Agriculture officer had the legal power to order the slaughter of the birds but was reluctant to do so until he received an assurance from the Australian Agricultural Council, or the federal authority, that compensation would be paid in respect of the birds slaughtered. Consequently the slaughterings were not undertaken until the morning of Wednesday, 22 January. They were completed some five weeks later. As I said, I understand that there has been less than total agreement about the facts of this matter. However, if the fact as given to me are substantially correct it would appear that there is a case for examining or re-examining the procedures which operate between State departmental veterinary officers, who have the legal power to order slaughtering, and the co-ordinator or the centralised authority, which handles compensation funds, to ensure that unwarranted or avoidable delays in diagnosis and compensation arrangements are avoided. In this instance no great harm was done but I undrstand that if the problem had been Newcastle disease or some other serious poultry disease a delay of 48 hours could have been critical and disastrous. 

 -Mr President - 
I want to take up a point which was not answered by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  in his reply. I refer to clause 5(1) (b), which states that the prescribed class varieties which can be accepted shall be determined by the appropriate Minister in the State in which the wheat is delivered. Given that the principal Act which this Bill amends operates for only one season, given the statement by the  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board that two years' notice will be given before dockages are actually applied and given the statement in the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that 'it is not intended that dockages for varietal control purposes will be actually imposed in respect of wheat of the 1 978-79 season', why is the Bill being amended in this way at this time? The amendment appears to be completely superfluous. If it is considered desirable to write this provision into the new Act when the Bill is finally passed as I can see the reasons why it may be desirable why is it being done unnecessarily now? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
How much tobacco was imported into Australia each year from 1973 to 1977: (a) under the Customs By-Law which applies a penalty rate of duty to products which do not contain at least SO per cent Australian leaf; and (b) at normal rates of duty. 
What rates of duty apply in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
How much phosphate fertiliser (22 per cent P2O5 equivalent) was imported in each of the months since June 1974. 
-With reference to the Dried Vine Fruits Equalization Levy Bill, I ask the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  whether the funds collected under this levy will be, as is the normal procedure, paid into a trust fund. I also ask him whether the moneys paid into that trust fund will receive interest while they are in the trust fund and prior to their distribution to, technically, the packer but, ultimately, the producer of dried fruits. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Firstly, I draw his attention to the annual report of the Insurance Council of Australia in which it is stated that the Ministerthat is,  Mr Sinclair-  has responded to the ICA's submission and confirmed that he will initiate action to repeal the reference to insurance in section 14 of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation Act. I ask: Is that report correct? If so, what is the reason for the proposed amendment? Will the Minister consider making a statement in Parliament on this matter so that we can find out about the situation in that way instead of reading about it in an annual report of the insurance industry. 
I shall speak only very briefly on this Bill as the Opposition does not oppose it. Its purpose is to include for purposes of assessing import duties the cost of packaging in accordance with what I understand is known as the Brussels Accord- in any event to conform with international practice. Because it is a move to conform with international practice the Opposition will not be opposing the Bill. It may be argued, validly I think, that where the cost of packaging is high or a high proportion of the total cost, and given that packaging previously was exempt from duty, the effect of this measure will be to increase the rate of duty applied on imports. It may be argued also that this is not warranted but I suggest that in those cases where duty has increased appreciably and where it is considered that there is no justification for such an increase in duty, the appropriate response or remedy is to alter the rate of duty. It seems to us a common sense measure that we should conform with standard international practice in this regard. I understand that subsequent to my comments  Senator Evans  has some remarks to make about the legal aspects of this Bill. We shall not oppose it. 
I want to speak to clause 4 of the Bill, the clause which proposes to increase the crude oil levy. I waited until now to speak to this clause because I wanted to allow  Senator McLaren  to move his requests pertaining to the increases in the excise on tobacco and various alcoholic beverages. Clause 4, to which I want to speak briefly, relates, of course, to the increase in the crude oil levy and the immediate movement towards full import parity for domestically produced crude oil. I note in passing that this is contrary to the declared intention of the Government in 1977, particularly the declared intention of  Mr Anthony. 
I note that in a speech in Adelaide on 16 November last the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman),  asserted that 'some progress has already been made in restraining the rate of growth of consumption of liquid fuels'. That statement was made in the context of the Government's crude oil pricing policies having had some effect on the growth or consumption rate of crude oil. I want to refute that totally fallacious assertion. In fact, it is refuted by the Government's own estimates, in the 1978-79 Budget Papers, of the revenue which will be derived from the excise on refined petroleum products. The 1978-79 Budget Papers, as can be seen from Budget Paper No. 1 at page 167, forecast an increase in the consumption of petroleum fuel subject to excise of 5 per cent in this financial year when compared with that for the previous year. 
If we look back over the past four years we see that the actual rate of increase in the volume of consumption has been 4.9 per cent. If we look back over the previous six years we see that the actual growth rate in consumption has been 4.87 per cent. So the Government's own revenue estimates for this year reveal that the Government is forecasting a growth rate in the consumption of petroleum fuels greater than that of either the last four or six years. Notwithstanding that fact, the Minister for National Resources had the audacity six or seven days ago to say that some progress had already been made in restraining the rate of growth in the consumption of liquid fuels. That statement was fraudulent. 
I refer now to the question of the crude oil levy, or excise, as it relates to primary industry in particular and to the economy in general. First, for the information of those who claim to be, as does the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, primarily or overwhelmingly concerned with restraining the rate of inflation, the Government 's decision to move immediately to full import parity adds about one per cent to the consumer price index. That is a completely avoidable addition. 
The rationale, in general terms, for the Government's oil price policy has already been discredited by the Government's own statement. The Government has said that the policy is designed to conserve a scarce resource and to encourage exploration. I have already dealt with the first of these aims. The Government's own forecasts show that it expects absolutely no reduction in the consumption of petroleum products as a consequence of the very substantial increase in prices that will flow from clause 4 of the Bill. The second expressed aim, that of encouraging exploration, is and always has been fallacious. Ever since September 1975 full import parity has been guaranteed for any new discoveries of crude oil. 
A third, equally fallacious argument that is sometimes put up by Government spokesmen is that the movement to full import parity is justified because it will increase the economically recoverable reserves from those fields that have already been discovered. The Government's own expert committee in this area, the National Energy Advisory Committee, stated in its report, which was issued last year, that the net addition to recoverable reserves as a result of the movement to higher oil prices would in fact be negligible. 
Assorted primary producer organisations have argued that there ought to be exemption for primary producers from this increased crude oil levy. Regardless of what merit that claim may have- I do not believe that it has much merit- it is quite clear that those who are putting forward that argument have failed to understand the Government's policy. The Government decided this year, in contradiction of its decision in 1977, that it would move immediately to full import parity. In 1977 it decided that, progressively, the price received by Australian producers would move towards full import parity and that by 1980-81 something more than 51 per cent of Australian domestic crude oil production would be priced at import parity to the Australian producer, principally Esso-BHP. In the 1978-79 Budget the Government brought down a policy of immediate import parity pricing for Australian consumers while retaining the policy in the 1977 Budget of progressive movement towards something more than 50 per cent of import parity for Australian producers. 
In other words, the levy that is being imposed by the clause of the Bill that we are discussing is progressively to be passed over to the Australian producers of crude oil, principally Esso-BHP. By 1980-81, Esso-BHP will receive full import parity for something more than 50 per cent of its total production, and the margin of 45 per cent, or whatever the figure might be, the difference between the price that Esso-BHP receives and that which is actually paid by Australian refiners will equal the residual crude oil levy. But the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said in his Budget Speech that as soon as possible after 1980-8 1 the price of crude oil to Australian producers would move to full import parity. In other words, according to the Treasurer, it is already established as firm government policy that by 1980-81 most of this crude oil levy will have been transferred to the Australian producers of crude oil and as soon as possible thereafter the entire existing crude oil levy will have been transferred to the Australian producers of crude oil and that government revenue, which in this financial year is to amount to some $680m, will have been transferred entirely to the Australian producers. 
From those facts it is clear that for thoseunfortunately they include most of the primary producer organisations in Australia- who are arguing for exemption for primary producers from the crude oil levy, even if their representations were successful, and, as the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  has already made perfectly clear, they will not be, the exemption gained would be a temporary benefit only because the levy from which those organisations are seeking exemption is self-terminating. 
My final point is that these organisations, instead of applying their energies to a futile quest to obtain exemption from the crude oil levy provided for under clause 4 of the Bill, ought to be applying those energies, and their political leverage, to the implementation of a resources tax. The reason why we have this crude oil levy is that the Prime Minister lacked the courage to carry through the policy, announced by the Government in 1 977, of applying a resources tax to the windfall gains of Australian producers of crude oil and to other highly profitable Australian mining enterprises. 
As the Prime Minister himself stated on the radio program  AM  on 16 August, the morning after the presentation of the Budget, in response to a question as to why the Government had dropped the resources tax which it had itself forecast in 1977, the Prime Minister said: 
In relation to Bass Strait oil it was never a question of a resources tax or no tax. It was a question of a resources tax or levy. 
So the reason why we have this enormous increase in the price of crude oil, as provided for in clause 4 of this Bill, is that this Government, and particularly this Prime Minister, has lacked the courage to pursue the policy announced in 1977. The Prime Minister likes to present to the public an image of being a very tough Prime Minister. The facts speak otherwise. Whenever the Prime Minister is confronted by significant opposition, from IBM Australia Ltd, from the industry lobby or from the Premiers of Western Australia or Queensland, he goes to water. National Country Party Ministers and members are particularly culpable, particularly in the context of the effect of this decision on agriculture. At all levels, particularly through State governments, they have been, and still are, aggressive opponents of a resources tax. In their anxiety to please the mining lobby they have abandoned their farming constituents. The reason we have this tax, this imposition, which will increase the consumer price index by one per cent this year and which will increase costs in agriculture by at least $120m, is that this Government and the Prime Minister lack the courage to implement the policy they announced last year. It is a substitute for the resources tax and on behalf of the Labor Party I want to stress our very strong opposition to clause 4 of this Bill. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Third Reading 
Bill (on motion by  Senator Durack)  read a third time. 
At the outset I think I ought to lodge a protest at the procedure which has been followed not only on this legislation but also on some eight or nine Bills today. Legislation which did not even appear on the Notice Paper of the Senate which came out this morning will be rammed through this Senate. 
This is supposed to be a House of review, according to a number of people on the other side. When eight or nine Bills are rammed through this place without serious consideration- Bills which did not even appear on the Notice Paper which came out this morning- one would have to be particularly naive, particularly gullible or particularly stupid to accept that in any meaningful sense this is a House of review. 
Having been approached today, quite spontaneously, by dried fruit producers- people whose names were not known to me, people I have never spoken to before- who were protesting not about the intention in the four Bills which are before the Senate but about the fact that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has failed adequately to consult with the producers concerned, I feel that I must register a protest on their behalf in addition to the protest that I have already stated on behalf of members of the Senate collectively. 
The Australian Dried Fruits Corporation Bill is a Bill to establish the Australian Dried Fruits Corporation. The Corporation will replace the Australian Dried Fruits Board. The Corporation will perform a similar function to that carried out by the Board. The membership of the Corporation will be more limited than the membership of the Board. A question which I would like to raise at this stage, one to which I invite the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  to respond, is whether it is usual in determining the membership of corporations of this nature for a panel of names to be submitted by the relevant producer organisations from which the Minister selects the members of the corporation. So far as I can determine this Bill contains no provision for the appropriate producer organisation to submit a limited number of names from which the Minister finally will select the four producer representatives on the body. 
I move now to the Dried Vine Fruits Equalization Bill and to the two Bills which are consequential upon it. The purpose of this legislation is to establish marketing arrangements for dried fruits which are conceptually identical with those which already apply to manufactured dairy products and to eggs. The legislation seeks to maintain prices on the domestic market at a level higher than the prices which normally apply for export markets. The machanism used in pursuing this objective is a levy struck on all production within Australia, and that levy is refunded, in this case to fruit packers who export the product. Effectively, the export of dried fruits under this legislation may be subsidised- but not necessarily- from the levy revenue collected from all growers or administratively from all packers. I say 'may be collected' rather than necessarily will be collected' because whether effectively a subsidy will be paid on exports depends on the prevailing export price level and whether that is above or below the prices prevailing on the domestic market. That decision will be made by the Corporation from time to time. 
The Opposition has some reservations about this policy. I personally favour the market share or two-price pool arrangements suggested by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on the industry under which, for the normally higher priced domestic markets, each Australian producer would have a quota which would receive the domestic market price and any above quota production would be marketed at export parity price. This sort of marketing arrangement provides the potential for growers to increase their income without Australian consumers or anyone else being worse off. However, we recognise that some administrative complexities are entailed in this sort of arrangement and it could well be, given that the industry in total is not a large one, that the administrative complexities of applying the Industries Assistance Commission marketing arrangements or the arrangements proposed under the legislation will become almost a matter of indifference. 
Although the Opposition has some reservations it has decided not to oppose this Bill. Nevertheless, I have a few other complaints to make. Firstly, this legislation was introduced into the House of Representatives last Wednesday night- eight nights ago. This begs the question: Given that the Minister forecast 18 months ago that legislation pertaining to this matter would be introduced, why did the legislation which is to be passed by the Senate tonight appear only eight days ago? I have had complaints from growers on this point because they became aware of what is contained in the legislation only two or three days ago. Despite that fact, the Parliament will pass the legislation tonight. The Opposition has not had adequate time to consider it. Even Government members who have received complaints and representations from growers have not had adequate time to consider it. For 1 8 months we have known that the legislation would be introduced but the Minister did not introduce the legislation into the House of Representatives until last week. This suggests that the present Minister for Primary Industry is so preoccupied with handling his personal business affairs and difficulties that he just cannot devote the time that is required to do his job. This emphasises the justification of the repeated calls by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  that this Minister should be replaced by someone else until his private business affairs have been properly sorted out. It is quite clear from his behaviour in this matter and in another matter which I will raise in Question Time tomorrow that he has not devoted or has not been able to devote the time to his duties as the Minister for Primary Industry which that office demands. 
In his second reading speech the Minister asserted that the amendments and the marketing arrangements which are proposed under this package of Bills had been recommended by the Australian Dried Fruits Association. While that statement is not untrue it tells less than the whole truth. The Australian Dried Fruits Association disregarded a recommendation from the producer component body of that organisation, or from the producers themselves, that some different marketing arrangements should be applied. So while the Minister was not exactly misleading the Parliament, he certainly was telling less than the whole truth. There is not the unanimity of opinion on the wisdom or appropriateness of this legislation that the Minister's second reading speech suggested there was. 
I understand that in the Riverland area in South Australia alone some 600 ethnic or nonAngloSaxon producers of dried fruits have not been consulted at all on this matter. Although I do not know the number, there is no doubt that a significant number of producers in the Sunraysia district are in the same position. I would like to know whether the proceeds of the levy imposed under the Dried Vine Fruits Equalization Levy Bill will be paid into a trust fund prior to redistribution to producers or, technically, to packers within the industry. I would also like to know whether for the time that the levy is in a trust fund interest will acme to the trust fund and ultimately, of course, to the producers or the packers who have contributed to it. 
The purpose of the Bill before us, which the Opposition is not opposing, is to change the  basis of protection for assemblers of heavier motor vehicles and also for the Australian manufacturers of the components of heavier motor vehicles. In March of this year the Government sent a reference to the Industries Assistance Commission on this matter. The reference was of the type with which we became familiar in the 1960s during the McEwen era. It was the type of reference in which the recommendations are written into the terms of the reference. In giving the reference to the IAC, the Government virtually instructed the IAC to bring down the sort of report and recommendations which it finally brought down. If anybody cares to look at page 78 of the IAC report on this matter, where the letter of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  is republished, they will see precisely what I mean. As it is a lengthly  letter I will not read it but seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 12 April 1978: 
What is the maximum length of subscriber's line provided by Telecom for a subscriber connected to an automatic exchange. 
Is it the same length as that provided for a subscriber connected to a manual exchange. 
The recommendations made by the IAC were that an import duty of 22  lA  per cent be applied to completely built-up vehicles and that the components from which those vehicles may be assembled be allowed duty free entry. That move in isolation, of course, would have removed any protection from the Australian manufacturers of" those components, and so the IAC recommended that a bounty of 20 per cent of the cost of locally produced components be paid to Australian manufacturers of those components. The Government made only one minor variation to the recommendation when it limited the range of components upon which that 20 per cent bounty would be payable. Conceptually one can easily work out the effective rate of protection provided in this legislation for assemblers. 
The formula for working out the effective rate of protection is the landed cost of the completely built-up vehicle divided by the landed cost of the completely built-up vehicle minus the landed cost of components, the product of which is multiplied by 22  Vi  per cent. The formula is relatively simple, at least when one sees it written down,  but we do not know what in reality it means. From the sources that I have consulted I have not been able to find out what the landed cost of the components is as a proportion of the landed cost of the completely built-up vehicle, but I would guess that the landed cost of the components would be about two-thirds of the cost of the completely built-up vehicle, in which case the effective rate of protection would be 6714 per cent. If the landed cost of components is one half of the cost of the completely built up vehicle, the effective rate of protection would be 45 per cent. Either of those figures is fairly high. To that calculation one rider should be added. If, as the IAC thought possible, the final prices of these vehicles came down, the effective rate of protection would be less. But if those final prices are not lowered the cost per extra job, as this Bill affects vehicle assemblers, will, according to the IAC estimates of its employment generating potential, be in the vicinity of $90,000 which is an extremely high level of employment subsidy, if I could use that term. The effective protection for the local component manufacture, on the other hand, appears to be something less than 20 per cent lower than for manufacturing industry as a whole. 
This legislation demonstrates the ad hoc nature of the Government's industry policy. A couple of pages of definitions illustrate that this Government has much less objection in practice than its rhetoric suggests to government intervention- or government meddling as, I suppose, members of the Liberal Party would be inclined to put it- in the economy. The final point I wish to raise is really a question of the Minister. If he does not mind I will put it to him in the second reading debate instead of in the Committee debate. Clause 5 (a) stipulates a component purchased by a vehicle assembler from an Australian manufacturer becomes eligible for a 20 per cent bounty payment. Does an assembler who is also a component producer- where the two activities are integrated- receive any bounty payment for that component which such a firm would be supplying to itself? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
Were Avis Hire cars, driven by  Mrs Rosemary  Sinclair, hired in the Minister's name between 7 September 1973 and June 1975; if so, did he become aware of this before or after the vehicles were hired. 
If the Minister became aware of this practice after the vehicles were hired, approximately how long afterwards did he find out. 
What steps, if any, did the Minister take to ensure that the practice ceased when he became aware of it. 
Does the Minister know of any other instances of any other persons charging official car transport to his entitlement between 2 December 1972 and 11 November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
What proportion of the total Australian fleece wool comes within each of the stockholding categories (i.e., 20.5 micron and finer, 20.6 to 22.5 micron and above 22.5 micron) identified on page 9 of the Australian Wool Corporation's 1 977-78 interim Annual Report. 
What proportion of purchases by the Corporation and its predecessor has fallen within each of these categories since buying, stock-holding and selling commenced. 
What is the average length of time for which stock has been held in each category since the Corporation and its predecessor began buying, holding stocks and selling. 
What was the average purchase price and selling price (or, for wool still held, present market value) for wool in each category. 
What are the answers to (2), (3) and (4) above if the questions are applied to non-fleece wool. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 8 November 1 978: 
1 ) How many recipients of the Tertiary Education Allowance have been affected by the 1976 amendment to Regulation 44(1974) of the Student Assistance Act 1973 in a manner similar to  Mr Ward  of West Leederville, Western Australia (see Senate  Hansard,  8 June 1978, page 2646). 
Is legal action to be taken against any such students for the recovery of alleged over-payments. If so, against how many students will action be taken. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Assuming that the  Sir Cecil  Looker whom the Prime Minister appointed to the inquiry concerning public duty and private interest is the  Sir Cecil  Looker who demonstrably failed to protect the interests of Associated Securities Ltd depositors, what steps will be taken to ensure that  Sir Cecil  will not again put private interests before public duty? In view of  Sir Cecil  's record, does the Prime Minister consider him a fit person to serve on such a sensitive inquiry? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service matters, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
1 ) What proportion of employees employed under the Public Service Act 1922 is paid solely according to length of service, with no weight being given to qualifications on entry. 
Did the Public Service Board recommend to the Department of Administrative Services that Electorate Assistants and Legislative Assistants be remunerated according to their length of service alone and that their qualifications should not be taken into account. 
Is this contrary to Determination 1978/9:9.6 (b) of the Remuneration Tribunal. 
Why was Determination 1978/9:9.6 (b) not implemented. 
5 ) Will the Minister request that the Public Service Board makes public its reasons for recommending against the implementation of 1978/9:9.6; and, in particular, why it has opted for length of service as the sole criterion. 
Does the Public Service Board plan to abandon academic qualifications as a factor in determining salary rates for any other public service employees. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 4 September 1 978: 
1 ) Has either television Channel 9 or Channel 7 in Perth made an application to establish a relay transmitter in the Bunbury area. 
Does the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 allow these Channels to operate a relay transmitter. 
Are there two currently unused channels,  on  the coaxial cable from Perth to Bunbury, which could carry the television relay. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
1 ) Did the Decentralisation Advisory Board recommend that a loan of $115,000 repayable over 7 years be made to Computer Services Pty Ltd of" Albany, Western Australia; if so: 
What rate of interest is to be charged on the loan; 
b ) Was this rate of interest recommended by the Decentralisation Advisory Board; and 
Who are the directors of Computer and Management Services Pty Ltd 
2 ) Has any similar type of assistance been recommended by the Decentralisation Advisory Board. 
3 ) Are applications for loans of this type advertised. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 8 November 1 978: 
How many tenders have been received for the purchase of 22 houses at the Karawarra Defence Service Home Village, Western Australia. 
What was the range of prices tendered for these houses. 
3 ) At what prices were the same house previously offered for direct sale to ex-servicemen. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 November 1978: 
How much of the $132,000,000 estimate of receipts from the Excise of Potable Spirits for 1978-79 is expected from sales of: (a) whisky; (b) brandy; (c) rum; (d) vodka; (e) gin; (f) and other spirits. 
What was the amount of revenue from this Excise on each of these spirits for 1977-78. , 
3 ) What quantity of each of these spirits wascleared from bond in: (a) September 1977; (b) October 1977; (c) September 1978; and (d) October 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 17 November 1978: 
What is the definition of 'official selling price' when applied to Arabian light crude oil in calculating the import parity price of indigenous crude oil. 
Where is the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)?  Is he in the building? If he is here in the building, why is he not in this chamber listening to this debate? Why is he not issuing the statement which he is obliged to issue in his position as the Leader of the Government? Does the Senate intend to permit the Leader of the Government to treat the Senate with the contempt which he is showing it at this moment by being in the building and not being in the chamber? An hour and a half ago rumours were flying around this building to the effect that the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  had resigned from the ministry. Everybody was asking: ' Why has he resigned?' Of course, it was not very long before the customary, and perhaps uncharitable, reply to such questions was being thrown around. People were asking: 'Has he been caught with his fist in the till?' If the Leader of the Government has no respect for the Senate - 
May I speak on the point of order,  Mr Deputy  President? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Scott)  -Order!  Senator Walsh,  you are perhaps testing tolerance, and I ask you to moderate your language. 
I am quite happy to withdraw the remark, but  Senator Rae's  objection just emphasises the point that I am making. That question is being asked around this Parliament. It has been asked around this Parliament tonight. Where is the Leader of the Government? Why is the Leader ofthe Government not here in the chamber? He has just entered the chamber. Perhaps now he will lay to rest these smears which are being thrown around Parliament House about the former Minister for Finance. Let the Leader of the Government tell us why the Minister for Finance resigned, and people will stop asking that question. 
This latest resignation, of course, just continues the record of scandal with which this Government was ridden even before it was elected. Seven days before the election in December 1975 the  Canberra Times  broke a story about a Minister in the then caretaker Government being involved in electoral malpractice. He was finally suspended because of that story. In 1977 the then Treasurer and Minister for Finance stood down from his position when it was revealed that that Minister,  Mr Lynch,  was involved in some highly profitable land speculation; he was a speculator in common with one Peter Leake, who had used his access to inside information gained as a member of the government planning committee to remove all of the risks from speculation. It was highly profitable and the former Treasurer was a beneficiary of that highly profitable land speculation. 
After the former Treasurer was stood down the Prime Minister said that he had received a report on  Mr Lynch  's activities from  Mr Lynch  's accountant and  Mr Lynch  's solicitor. The Prime Minister said that this account had completely exonerated  Mr Lynch  from any suspicion of malpractice. But the Prime Minister said that he would not show us what was in the report prepared by  Mr Lynch  's solicitor and  Mr Lynch  's accountant. The Prime Minister said that the report cleared  Mr Lynch  but he would not make it public. I presume that we have the Prime Minister's word of honour that that secret document prepared by  Mr Lynch  's accountant and  Mr Lynch  's solicitor clears  Mr Lynch  of all suspicion of unsavoury business conduct. 
Yes, he is an honourable man, as  Senator Mcintosh  said. We learned from  Senator Withers  the day after he was sacked by the Prime Minister something about the man of honour who leads this country.  Senator Withers  revealed, and the  National Times  later published, that the Prime Minister had invited  Mr Robinson-  strange that his name should keep cropping up- to amend the testimony that he had given to the inquiry into electoral malpractice in Queensland. The Prime Minister invited the former Minister for Finance to perjure himself. The Prime Minister said that he would deny knowledge of  Senator Withers  having contact with the Chief Electoral Officer, which knowledge the Prime Minister had gained from  Senator Withers  and others as early as 24 January 1 977.  Senator Withers  asked the Prime Minister how if he was to become the scapegoat and to be dismissed the Prime Minister would cope with the fact that he himself was a party to that information for some three months before he set up the royal commission. 

 Senator Withers told the bevy of journalists that were in his office that night- the  National 

 Times and the  Australian Financial Review  later published this-that  Mr Fraser  said that he would deny that he had heard it on that occasion. So we have the Prime Minister, on the word of  Senator Withers,  saying that he would deny that he knew what he did know and the Prime Minister inviting the former Minister for Finance to perjure himself to the electoral inquiry. But on the word of honour of the man with this record we are supposed to accept that this secret document prepared by  Mr Lynch  's accountant and  Mr Lynch  's solicitor clears  Mr Lynch  of all suspicion of business malpractice. 
The Prime Minister, to defuse this issue, decided that he would set up a committee on public duty and private interest. It was headed by a former Liberal Party Minister,  Sir Nigel  Bowen. One of the other two members was  Sir Cecil  Looker, the former  Chairman  of the Melbourne Stock Exchange, the exponent, the great proselytiser of the rule of self-regulation for stock exchanges. He does not want public bodies sticking their noses into what happens in the Melbourne Stock Exchange. This is the  Sir Cecil  Looker who has been appointed to investigate what should be divulged about the pecuniary interests of politicians, a committee which the Prime Minister appointed to try to defuse the Lynch affair. 
What did we find out two weeks ago? This  Sir Cecil  Looker who is going to protect the public interest on that inquiry is the same  Sir Cecil  Looker who demonstrably failed to protect the interests of the depositors in Associated Securities Ltd. Does the Prime Minister believe that a man with a personal business record such as that is a fit person to serve on such a sensitive committee which is supposed to protect the public interests? 
This resignation is part of a continuing sequence of scandal which has ridden this Government since before it was elected the first time and which has continued unabated ever since. I am pleased to see that the Leader of the Government has returned to the Senate. I hope he now proceeds to give us a proper and full explanation of why the Minister for Finance has resigned. 
1 address a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In India last month the Prime Minister stated that there were no restrictions on the export of Australian merino sheep and promised, in response to a request, both written and oral, from the 
Raymond Knitting Mills Co. of Bombay, to deliver 20 merino ewes. In view of his earlier statement I ask the Minister whether he is confident that the Prime Minister knows his Government's policy on this matter and that he knows the difference between ewes and rams. Has the policy announced by the Government last year to permit the export of up to 300 merino rams and to maintain a total embargo on the export of merino ewes been changed? If so, when? If not, will the Prime Minister guarantee to find out his Government's policy before he again glad-hands abroad? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 15 November 1978: 
1 ) Does the firm, Eric White Associates, appointed as coordinators of the National Energy Study Team (announced in the Minister's Press Statement, 9 November 1978) have as clients any oil companies. 
Is Eric White Associates retained by any energyproducing companies or any producers of products dependent on high energy consumption, for example, disposable containers. 
What steps did the Minister's Department take to ensure that no conflict of interests occurred in this and other similar contracts which it awards. 
Were tenders called in this case. 
) What proportion of the $50,000 fee will be paid to Eric White Associates. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I am disappointed that we have not yet in front of us a copy of the text. However, I think we all have a fair idea of what is in it and I would like to make one or two brief remarks about it. What the Government hopes to achieve with this policy is to make the Australian motor vehicle industry more competitive by entering upon a higher degree of specialisation, probably of capital intensity and certainly of length of production runs. This policy to manufacture between 240,000 and 300,000 four-cylinder engines in Australia, some two-thirds of which are destined for export, I think can correctly be seen as a declaration of intent by the Government to make the Australian motor vehicle industry more international and to facilitate the interchange of components between Australia and other countries. The 85 per cent local content plan is, of course, to be reduced effectively to an 80 per cent local content plan when this scheme comes into operation. 
However, the detailed effects of this Government policy are far from clear. I think that virtually everyone who has looked at the motor industry recognises that, if it is not to become progressively more uncompetitive, with progressively higher costs, and if it is not to become progressively smaller, demanding everincreasing levels of protection from imports, some rationalisation of the industry is essential. Today the nation is suffering from the legacy bequeathed to it in the 1960s, principally by  Sir John  McEwen but also by the Menzies, Holt and Gorton governments of that period. We note with some regret that the people who are politically sponsoring this plan today resisted an attempt by the Australian Labor Party in 1975 to rationalise the industry by interchanging components on an inter-company basis within Australia. This would have achieved at least most, if not all, of the objectives which the Government seeks with its present policy. The proposal which the then Labor Government put forward in 1975 was for the establishment of a four-cylinder engine manufacturing plant in South Australia, the objective being that that plant be established by a consortium involving Chrysler and, I think, two Japanese manufacturers and that it supply the four-cylinder engines for all Australian motor vehicle manufacturers. 
As I said, that proposal would have allowed us to achieve many of the economies of scale, of specialisation and of length of production run which the current Government policy seeks to achieve; but it would have been done on an internal rather than an international basis. Whilst there probably are arguments for and against both policies, I observe in passing that we would have had more control over industry rationalisation which was carried out not only on such an inter-company basis but also, so far as Australia was concerned, on an internal basis. However, the Government has chosen to pursue the same objective through a different means, that is, to achieve the economies of scale by further internationalising the manufacture of motor vehicles within Australia. Because of that decision we will in the future be more vulnerable both to economic shocks which are generated abroad and to managerial decisions regarding the size, location and output of plants. To a significant degree such decisions are already made abroad, but they will be made abroad to a greater degree in the future. 
The only other comment I wish to make is that this is about the fifth car industry plan which the Government has produced in a little over three years. We have had almost as many car industry plans as ministerial sackings. I think the record short term car industry plan, which was supposed to have lasted six years, lasted about six weeks. The industry plan which this proposal replaces was supposed to last until 1984. This one is supposed to commence in 1982. One would not have to be too sceptical to question how long this proposal will last and whether- if the Government runs true to form- it will be abandoned in 1982, before it supposedly becomes operative. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Chaney)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is he the other Minister who was on the brink of resigning last Friday? Did he discuss the matter with his parliamentary colleagues? 
The Patents Amendment Bill, in view of  the accompanying memorandum, is obviously a fairly complex and technical matter, rather than what one by contrast might describe as a politically controversial matter. The Bill is not seen as being politically controversial. It relates to a question of administration, and the Opposition will not be opposing it. I do not propose to say very much about it, other than that it establishes a form of two-tiered patenting under which petty patents, as they are referred to in the second reading speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney),  may be taken out for terms varying between one and six years. The petty patents will cover technically simple inventions which often will be covered by only one patent and will therefore not require the rigorous and exhaustive examination to determine whether an invention is patentable to which inventions are necessarily subjected under the existing law. For more complex inventions the existing patenting procedures will continue to apply. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; (f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 20 February 1 979: 
Did a  Mr Robert  Anthony accompany the Minister on his trip to China between 27 October and 4 November 1978; if so: 
why was  Mr Anthony's  name not included in the list of members of the party released in the Minister's Press Statement of 12 October 1978; 
b ) why was  Mr Anthony  included in the party; 
who paid the cost of his travel and accommodation expenses; and 
is  Mr Anthony  the Minister's brother. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) What is the name of the photographer who took the  photographs of the Peking Foreign Agricultural Machinery 
Exhibition published for the Minister's Department in the magazine  Overseas Trading,  Vol. 30, No. 24, 8 December 1978, pages 794-5. 
Is the photographer an employee of the Commonwealth; if not, how much was he paid for taking these photographs. 
) Was the photographer paid for any other assignments undertaken during the Minister's trip to China between 27 October and 4 November 1978; if so, what are the details of any such assignments. 
I shall not speak at any length on this Bill. The Opposition is not opposing the measure. 
It is a measure which removes the former liability on exporters of excisable goods to submit returns on a consignment basis and instead requires the exporters of excisable goods to submit returns on a time unit basis. It is, I think, selfevident that a change of this nature simplifies the clerical work, both from the point of view of the exporter and from the point of view of the administering authority, and for that reason the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) Did any photographers accompany the Minister on his trip to China between 27 October and 4 November 1978; if so: (a) what are their names; (b)what organisations did they represent; (c) who paid their travel and accommodation expenses; and (d) what were the expenses in each case. 
2 ) Were any organisations invited to send representatives other than those who actually did. 
Did any organisations seek to send representatives but were not permitted to. 
Just wait a moment,  Senator Missen.  That was a point of view which the Prime Minister himself supported in the House of Representatives yesterday. If the Prime Minister and his wife are going to use the line of argument that it is morally reprehensible to criticise the granting of a loan to a retired personthe Prime Minister's wife's words- they should be notified that retired persons, by definition, are ineligible to receive loans under these provisions. 
However, the whole story of the poor disadvantaged Beggs family who had been burnt out of house and home and had been given some compensation was blown apart by the Australian Broadcasting Commission's  Nationwide  program on Thursday night. We were informed that the fire had gone through in February 1977. We were told that 75 per cent of the 7,000 acre Beggs property near Hamilton had been burnt out, although there had been some other reports which suggested that the property was in fact 4,000 acres; but that is not a crucial fact. We were told that 40 miles or 64 kilometres of fencing had been destroyed and that 2,500 stud sheep had perished in the blaze. Incidentally, if they were all stud sheep that is an extremely large sheep stud. It was also revealed by the Prime Minister's brother-in-law,  Mr Hugh  Beggs, that the family had applied to the Victorian Rural Finance Commission for a loan about mid- June, some four months after the devastating fire swept through the property. That was indirectly revealed because of another statement that  Mr Beggs  made. 
We were also told, though not by  Mr Hugh  Beggs, that all the landholders who had been affected by the fire collectively sued the State Electricity Commission which acknowledged responsibility for setting off the blaze. We were also told that all the landholders contacted by the ABC, other than the Beggs family, were satisfied with the settlement. We subsequently learnt that the Beggs family had in fact received $180,000 from the SEC. There was one report which said that it was $ 1 85,000, but again that is not critical. We are not sure of the exact time that the SEC commenced to make these payments in about August of 1977.  Mr Hugh  Beggs informed us via  Nationwide  that the loan obtained from the Rural Finance Commission had been used for what he termed as 'restructuring the family's substantial debts'. He also informed us that the property was now substantially back on its feet. Both those pieces of information are important. 
Earlier that day his father,  Mr Sandford  Beggs, was reported by Australian Associated Press to have said: 
We naturally shopped around and took the lowest rate of interest available to us. 
But the crucial fact which emerged from the  Nationwide  program was that the Beggs family had been compensated by the SEC for its losses in the fire. I note in passing that that crucial fact was not published in either of the Melbourne morning newspapers on the Friday, notwithstanding the fact that the transcript of the  Nationwide  program was in the hands of the Canberra bureau of the  Age  by 11 p.m. that night- in plenty of time for the late edition. The  Age  article Insight' published on Friday, 2 March, referred to what purported to be an in depth examination of this question. In the article we were told that these investigative journalists had ferreted around State Government departments in Victoria and discovered from somewhere or other that the Beggs family had suffered losses amounting to $300,000 in the fire. That was a questionable figure but the important thing is that the 'Insight' team's in depth investigation and its ferreting around in Victorian State Government departments failed to turn up the fact that the Beggs family had received compensation of $185,000. This was followed by the prolonged game of yes no, yes no, daisy petal plucking, from the Victorian Premier over his business links with the Fraser and Beggs families. 
The issue arose in Parliament again yesterday. A question was directed to the Minister for Primary Industry who administers the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act asking whether he was satisfied that all loans granted in all States by the State authorities who act as agents of the Commonwealth had complied with the conditions laid down in the Schedule to the State Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act. He replied that they had and invited the questioner and the Australian Labor Party, in effect, to put up or shut up if they had any information. This we will now do. There is clearly a prima facie case that the Begg 's loans do not comply with three of the conditions laid down in the Schedule to the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act. Two of those conditions were not met when the loan was originally granted and one of those conditions has subsequently, because of changed circumstances, moved into the category where it no longer applies to the loan. Ironically, the evidence for all this has come mostly from the Beggs family itself. The first condition which was not met is in Part 1 on page 7 of the Schedule to the Act. It was quoted by  Senator Wriedt  yesterday. Part I sub-clause (d) states: 
Companies will not be eligible for assistance unless the Authority - 
That is, the State authorities- having considered the shareholdings and being satisfied that the shareholders are bona fide primary producers relying primarily on the income of the company for their livelihood . . . 
Of course, it is well known that one of the shareholders in the company that received this loan was the Prime Minister's wife. If one were to argue that the loan to Nareeb Nareeb, which is a company, complied with the conditions laid down in the Schedule to the Act, it would also be necessary to accept that the Prime Minister's wife is a primary producer and primarily dependent on the income from Nareeb Nareeb for her livelihood- that is, that she is a bona fide primary producer. The second condition which was not met is in Part 1 sub-clause (h) on page 8 of the Schedule. It states that the arrangementsthat is, the conditions of the loan to farmers who are assisted- may be reviewed from time to time and may be cancelled if the person who receives the loan ceases farming. The Schedule goes on to state: 
Otherwise the arrangements shall be terminable - 
Not 'may be terminable', but 'shall be terminable '- when the Authority decides that his prospects of successful economic operation are no longer dependent on the extension of concessional finance. Upon termination of the arrangements, all debts will then become due and payable. 
We have it on the authority of  Mr Hugh  Beggs, who appeared on the program  Nationwide  last Thursday night, that the farm at Nareeb is substantially back on its feet. That can only be interpreted to mean that its survival is no longer dependent on concessional finance. Nevertheless the loan stands. Finally, under Part 2, Debt Reconstruction, on -page 8 of the Schedule, subclause (2) (a) states that a person is entitled to receive a loan only if he 'is unable to obtain finance on reasonable terms to carry on, from any other normal source and is thus in danger of losing property or other assets if not assisted under the Scheme'. That is commonly known as the 'lender of last resort' provision. We have it again on the authority of Hugh Beggs on  Nationwide  last Thursday night that the money received from the Rural Finance Commission was used to restructure the substantial debts of the family farm. We have it on the authority of  Mr Sandford  Beggs as reported by the Australian Associated Press of the same day: 
We naturally shopped around and took the lowest rate of interest available to us. 
Clearly, this loan does not comply with the lender of last resort provisions stipulated in the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act.  Mr Sandford  Beggs was also reported to have said that the examination of this matter in Parliament was: 
. an unbelievable intrusion of our privacy. 

 Mr Beggs obviously wants to shop around, as he put it, for the lowest interest rates, in his case 4 per cent, and to maintain a fiscal pipeline into the bank, but expects immunity from public scrutiny of the loans which may be granted to him. How do all the other farmers feel about this grant, this loan at 4 per cent to the Prime Minister's in-laws, from the Victorian Rural Finance Commission? How do all the farmers who have been knocked back by this and similar authorities in all States feel about a sum of $100,000 being given to the Prime Minister's family at concessional rates, apparently in breach of at least three provisions of the Schedule to the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act? What are the feelings of the farmers who received trivial amounts? The Western District farmer who received $2,000 was the only farmer in the Western District affected by that bushfire other than the Beggs family who  Nationwide  could find who had received anything from the Commission. How does that farmer, who received $2,000, feel about the Prime Minister's relatives receiving $ 100,000? 
How do all the farmers who were also affected in the fire and who received nothing feel about that?  Senator Missen  raises a question of losses. This family received $ 1 80,000 from the State Electricity Commission in Victoria in full compensation for the losses sustained in that fire. The fact that that loss was met by that Commission surely removes any just claim which the family could otherwise have had for financial assistance from the public. The Prime Minister is a man who is very concerned about costs for the taxpayers. How do the taxpayers who ultimately foot the bill for this massive interest subsidy feel about the Prime Minister's relatives getting $50,000 at 4 per cent, especially when most of the taxpayers are paying 1 1 per cent or 12 per cent on their own housing loan mortgages? How do they feel about it? 
If they can get them.  Senator McLaren  raises the issue of those who cannot get housing loans. The people whose incomes do not permit them to get housing loans buy household equipment on hire purchase. They pay 18 per cent or 20 per cent interest and the Prime Minister's family gets public money at 4 per cent and has the audacity to complain that it is 'an unbelievable intrusion' on their privacy when these facts are brought to light in the national Parliament. 
The Prime Minister thinks that all this is in order. He does not just think it; he arrogantly asserts it. I suppose, given the well-known subjectivity of the Prime Minister, it is no wonder that he breaks his election promise to provide concessional funds to farmers through the Primary Industry Bank. Apparently all his relatives can get public money at 4 per cent; they certainly do not need the Primary Industry Bank concessional rates of interest. Let us consider the whole question in the context of the Prime Minister's philosophical beliefs. I state immediately that I absolutely repudiate the view. But the view of such a disaster, if relevant- and it ceased to be relevant in this instance as soon as the SEC paid the compensation- would be that it would be wrong to compensate people who lost property in natural disasters if they could insure themselves against such loss. The Randian view is that such action only encourages improvidence. The Randian view is normally supported by the Prime Minister. It is not supported by me; it is not supported by my party; but it is supported by the Prime Minister. 
I return to the question whether the compensation was adequate. In the  Age  the Insight article failed to turn up the crucial fact that the family had been compensated. All the other landholders in the Western District whom the ABC could contact last Thursday night agreed that the compensation had been fair and from the ABC's researches only the Beggs family claimed to have been dissatisfied. That claim was wittingly or otherwise supported by the  Age  Insight article of 2 March in which it was stated that the losses were $300,000. There were 2,500 sheep. At that time they would have been worth about $10 a head. It was claimed that they were stud sheep although, as I noted earlier, it would be an extremely large stud if there were 2,500 stud sheep. Let us say that they were worth $20 a head. That gives us a figure of $50,000. 
Allegedly 64 kilometres of fencing was destroyed. I have obtained quotations from contractors in the Australian Capital Territory on the erection complete with materials supplied of such a task. The whole finished job- six-line hinge joint with two barbs, sheep and cattle proof fencing- would cost between $1,500 and $ 1 ,800 a kilometre. That amounts to something between $96,000 and $1 15,000. The pasture, of course, was burnt out. That represented 75 per cent of an area between 4,000 and 7,000 acres. It would be difficult to put a value on that in normal circumstances but given that the fire took place in mid-February and that the growing season in that area normally commences in March or early April, no great value can be placed upon the pasture. So without the pasture, at most, the losses sustained by the family in the fire were of the order of $165,000. That makes the SEC's compensation look quite satisfactory and quite reasonable, as apparently all the other landholders affected by the fire found it to be. 
On the question of natural disasters- since some people have related this whole question to natural disasters- it should also be put on the record that on 9 June last year,  Mr Anthony,  presumably in the capacity of Acting Prime Minister, sent a telex to the South Australian Minister of Agriculture regarding payments of Commonwealth funds for disaster relief because of the drought that State was suffering last year. He objected to loans above $15,000 having been paid to individual farmers in South Australia, claiming that that was in breach of pre-existing agreements between the State and the Commonwealth. He did, however, agree that the average loan could be raised to $20,000 and that there should be an upper limit, an overall limit, of $40,000 per farmer. If it is to be claimed- I do not know whether it is- that this was disaster relief compensation, the Beggs family in Victoria can get $100,000 apparently without any objections from the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  the Prime Minister or anyone else in the Liberal and National Country parties in this Parliament. In South Australia an overall limit of $40,000 is set. 
I can understand the anger of  Mr Digby  Crozier who has reported in today's  Age  as saying that he wants to gag the ABC. He wants to impose political censorship on it. Given the tame cat coverage of this issue over the last few days by the Melbourne Press, the tame Melbourne Press, I am not surprised at his extreme anger at the fact that the ABC has effectively blown the story. Were it not for the ABC, it probably would not have been blown. Nevertheless, there are a couple of fascinating and perhaps unintentional items raised in the  Age  Insight in-depth investigation of 2 March. The article on that investigation stated: 
The Labor Parly's attack came as no surprise to the Prime Minister. It is believed  Mr Fraser  got wind of the planned attack late last year and has held talks with the commission's  chairman, Mr Ian  Morton, to keep abreast of Labor's investigations. 
Is that not an extraordinary revelation? The  Chairman  of the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission held private tete-a-tetes with the Prime Minister about a political matter which the Prime Minister feared would be raised in this Parliament. I am not sure how significant that fact is, or even whether it is true, but I note that neither  Mr Fraser  nor  Mr Morton  has disputed the claim, and that article was published five days ago. Perhaps it helps to explain- I suggest that it does explain- why last Thursday the Prime Minister knew precisely whom to ring when this matter was raised and why the Prime Minister was on a first name basis with the  Chairman  of the Commission. 'Get Ian Morton of Rural Finance. I want him to make a statement on the Beggs loans', he said.  Mr Morton  complied. 
This Beggs affair has dramatised the issue of administration of concessional interest Federal funds made available to farmers. The people who will be most annoyed by this matter are the farmers who did not get the money, whether it was because they and the Beggs family were not similarly placed I do not know, but they did not get the money and they will be annoyed about it. They are entitled to be annoyed about it. On the broader question the Minister for Primary Industry, who during Question Time in the Parliament on two days has accepted responsibility for this matter, clearly has not secured from the States the information which the appropriate Act clearly entitles him to secure and he has failed to exercise proper control over taxpayers' funds to ensure that the always limited concession funds are directed where Parliament intended them to be directed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 22 February 1979: 
1 ) What is the cost per kilogram of beef, sheep, and pigmeats of: 
a) Commonwealth export meat inspection; 
b ) Victorian domestic meat inspection; and 
Commonwealth domestic meat inspection in South Australia and Tasmania. 
What is the ratio of inspection staff to throughput in each of these categories for each type of meat. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) How many people are employed by the Minister's Department (a) throughout Australia; and (b) in Western Australia. 
How many Aborigines are in each of the above categories. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Depanment to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Depanment to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. No doubt  Senator Carrick  will be familiar with the Prime Minister's frequently stated beliefs that a household budget is just like a national Budget; that deficits have to be paid back; that nations, like families, must live in hardship while deficits are being paid back; and that deficits incurred under Labor condemned the nation to prolonged poverty, and so on and so forth. Does the Minister know that the aggregate deficit in the three Labor Budgets was less than $6.5 billion and that the aggregate deficit for the three Fraser Budgets stood at $10.7 billion at the end of January and will be about $9 billion at the end of the fiscal year? Does he believe that the Prime Minister's view of deficits is correct? If so, for how long can we expect to live in poverty while the Fraser Government's vastly bigger deficits are being paid back? 
The Opposition is not opposing this Bill. The purpose of the amendment is to remove any legal doubts which may have existed whether the Australian Dairy Corporation was entitled to promote liquid milk products and other close derivatives on the Australian market. Apparently this has been questioned. We see no reason why this move to remove the legal doubts should be opposed. Indeed, there are positive reasons why the objective of the Bill, which is to increase sales of milk and closely related products, should be supported. 
Milk, apart from being a consumption good, is the raw material for a variety of end products. As a general rule, when assessing the relative profitability of these end products to the dairy industry or milk producers, liquid milk is the most profitable of all and the close relatives of liquid milk are nearest to liquid milk in profitability. The more manufactured products- particularly butter- return a considerably smaller net price to the dairy farmer than those products more closely related to the raw material. The more milk or closely related milk products that can be disposed of, the higher the average prices that will be received by the dairy industry. 
If the promotion campaign of liquid milk and related products is successful, it follows that the consumption and the proportion of the dairy industry's total output consumed in this way will increase. One demonstration of the potential which exists in promoting a flavoured milk drink- I believe it is the only example in existence at present- is the success of the Victorian State Dairying Industry Authority in promoting a flavoured milk drink, Big M, which was sold in competition with Coca Cola, other aerated waters and similar products. In the year after the Victorian State Milk Marketing Authority launched that campaign, the consumption of liquid milk rose by about nine per cent above the pre-existing trends. 
That experience in Victoria suggests there is considerable scope for similar campaigns in other States. One could perhaps argue that the State liquid milk marketing authorities have been remiss in not promoting flavoured milk as a competitor for aerated waters in other States. The Australian Dairy Corporation is now empowered to do so. It does not follow that all promotion campaigns for primary products or for other products closely related to milk will be rewarded with that sort of success. I believe there is good reason to question whether the expenditure of any funds on the promotion of red meat within Australia can be justified, in spite of the recent decision by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation to devote some $750,000 to it, possibly at the instigation of Harry M. Miller, whom I do not expect to remain a member of that Corporation for very much longer. 
The average price to the dairy farmers could be increased if more milk was devoted to producing cheese and less to the ultimate production of butter. This leads me to a statement made by  Mr Webster, Chairman  of the Australian Dairy Corporation at the Agricultural Outlook Conference early in this year and about which I wish to pass a few remarks. In the paper he delivered  Mr Webster  appeared to be recommending that there should be new investment in the dairy industry aimed at increasing dairy output. He stated that such investment for dairy farmers in Victoria is highly profitable.  Mr Webster  was later reported in the Press as stating that the returns on capital of 20 per cent are feasible for new investment and expanded production in the dairy industry in Victoria. 
When he was questioned with regard to the assumptions upon which. his recommendation of new investment in the dairy industry was based, he stated that it was based on the assumption that the extra milk would be used to produce cheddar cheese at its underwritten price of $975 a tonne and that 1 5 per cent of the increased output would be disposed of as liquid milk at liquid milk prices. It may be quite correct that an investment in Victoria based on those assumptions will provide a 20 per cent return on capital to the individual, as  Mr Webster  stated, and therefore the investment for the individual is highly attractive. However, the position from the industry's point of view is quite different. The method that  Mr Webster  used in assessing whether this investment should be undertaken is certainly not appropriate from the national viewpoint or from the point of view of dairy farmers in the industry other than those who are embarking on new investment and increased production. 
The question whether  Mr Webster's  recommendation for an expansion of the production base should be acted on can be looked at from at least three perspectives and the answers in all cases can be different. There is the perspective of the individual farmer with which I have already dealt. On the assumptions that  Mr Webster  used, it would appear that his recommendation is sound. However, from the point of view of the other dairy farmers in the industry, there is no doubt that that son of expansion would reduce the average prices they receive and that in the case of all dairy farmers other than those who are actually increasing their production incomes would fall, assuming that price relativities remained the same. 
From the national point of view, it is quite inappropriate to consider any liquid milk component in determining whether industry output should be increased. From the national point of view the clear rule which governs this and all other such decisions, from the economic aspect anyway- there may be other considerations- is that the output should be increased only if the marginal cost of that extra production is lower than the marginal revenue it will return. The correct marginal revenue figure to use in this instance is probably the net export price of cheddar cheese, which is about $950 a tonne.  Mr Webster  had assumed in his calculations an underwritten price of about $975 a tonne. But even if, on that basis of marginal cost being lower than marginal revenue, the dairy industry output should be increased, it still follows that the average prices received by all dairy farmers would fall and the incomes received by dairy farmers not participating in this increased production would decline, other things being equal. 
At the same Outlook Conference,  Mr Webster  recommended an increased output of cheese on the basis that there was an unfilled demand for cheese on the Japanese market. Again, the decision to be made is whether output should be increased to meet that demand at the rate of $950 a tonne. Output should be increased only if the production cost is less than $950 a tonne, unless somebody wants to bring tariff compensation arguments and exchange rate effects into the matter. There may be something to be said for that argument, but I do not propose to delve into it at this time. The way in which  Mr Webster's  recommendation came out was rather unfortunate. The assumptions underlying the recommendation should have received more publicity than they have received. Even if the cost and return realities justify an increase in total output from the industry in the existing situation, a preferred immediate option would be to divert some of the milk which at present is utilised in butter production towards cheese production, because on a non-farm basis or non-factory basis at prevailing prices cheese is a more attractive product that butter, especially if the element of government support is removed. While price relativities remain at their present level, the first change that should be made in the dairy industry and its final output mix is a reduction in butter output and an increase in cheese output. Any decision on whether the whole industry output should be increased deliberately should be based upon the marginal price of the preferred product, namely, cheese. 
At the end of November last year the Government announced that the first advance payment to Australian wheat growers would be $75 a tonne less growers' freight. It also evidently arranged for the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia to make an advance to the Australian Wheat Board of about $800m to pay that first advance. At that time it was expected that the total deliveries would be something less than 12 million tonnes. By mid-January, when most of the grain had been harvested, it was apparent that the final deliveries would be in the vicinity of 17 million tonnes. It is now expected that even that figure will be exceeded. So between 5 million and 6 million tonnes more wheat will be delivered than was anticipated at the time the Government made that financial decision. Consequently, an extra 5350m to $400m has been pumped into the money supply, adding about one per cent to it from that source alone. The effect on the money supply, at least in the short term and for the extended term as I will demonstrate in a minute, of advancing this money to wheat growers through the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank is conceptually identical to printing 350 million to 400 million dollar notes. 
The effects of this big addition to the money supply will persist for longer this year than they normally do. The wheat growers have nearly all the money now for the 17 million tonnes they have grown. But there is a physical limitation on the amount of wheat that can be shipped from the country, regardless of what the marketing conditions may be. That physical limitation is somewhere between 10 million and 12 million tonnes. So the export credits for a large amount of wheat will not be earned within 12 months. Consequently the additional potential income will not be realised and the Government will be likely to be forced to continue borrowing overseas to avoid further devaluation of the Australian dollar. Therefore the money supply has already been pumped up by the payments to the wheat growers. But what could have been an offsetting effect- that is, a reduction in overseas borrowing requirements because of the additional export income which the wheat could have generated- will not materialise because the wheat cannot be physically shipped out of the country. So the balance of payments effects of this very large wheat harvest in this calendar year are not likely to be favourable, given the very high propensity of wheat growers to import when they have high incomes. 
One can sympathise with the Government in this money supply problem which has been generated by the first advance payment to wheat growers. At the time the payment was announced nobody expected that the harvest would approach anything like the current figure. If the Government had said publicly and openly in about mid-January, when it became apparent that a money supply problem was looming, that it intended to transfer a part of the Wheat Board overdraft held by the Rural Credits Department to the private trading banks- if the Government had taken this action- it could have avoided the money supply implications of financing through the Rural Credits Department. Wheat growers would have complained about the higher interest rates, but there could have been no serious and informed criticism of the Government for taking that sort of measure to offset the money supply consequences of an earlier decision taken with imperfect knowledge. But it seems that whenever the Government is given a choice between behaving openly and behaving furtively it cannot resist the temptation to behave in a furtive manner. 
We are not entirely sure of what has happened, and this is one of the reasons I have raised the matter in the Senate today. We do, however, know that towards the end of January the Wheat 
Board actually suspended payments to growers. It stopped paying out on the wheat delivery warrants submitted to it by growers. A grower has pointed out in a letter published in last week's issue of  The Land  newspaper that he drew his warrant on 3 January and 1 7 January. He went on to say that at the time of writing the letter he had still not received payment. That was undoubtedly a consequence of the fact that the Wheat Board had actually suspended payment because the Reserve Bank would not advance it anything in excess of the $800m originally planned. It is not unusual under any circumstances for there to be a delay of up to three weeks or four weeks in the money actually being paid into the growers' bank accounts. Growers might wonder why there was a delay of up to a month. It was because the Wheat Board suspended payments. There was no massive outcry because normally there is some time lag. There is no doubt that for a period towards the end of January the Australian Wheat Board suspended payment on warrants tendered. In the  Australian Financial Review  editorial of 1 March the General Manager of the Wheat Board was quoted as saying with regard to the policy on finance that it had not changed one iota. That is not true. If the General Manager of the Wheat Board made that statement he was lying. It has never been policy to suspend payment to growers because the Wheat Board cannot get any additional advance from the Reserve Bank. That situation has never arisen before. 
A question was asked by  Senator McLaren  on 19 February on this matter. As a result of early reports in the  Age  newspaper  Senator McLaren  asked whether the Government had a proposal to transfer to the private banks some $250m of the credit extended from the Reserve Bank to the Wheat Board. The question was asked of  Senator Webster.  In spite of a special request to have it answered that day,  Senator Webster  was unable to do so. The next day he answered on behalf of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  The answer had nothing to do with the question. The answer told us that the wheat harvest was much bigger than anyone had expected- which everybody knew- and that consequently the required aggregate of payments was much larger than anybody expected. It did not answer the question whether the Government had a proposal to transfer some of the Wheat Board's outstanding debt from the Reserve Bank to the trading banks. A similar question was asked in the House of Representatives on 22 February. I quote part of the question which was directed to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  In part it states: 
Is pan of the total amount now being required from commercial sources . . . 
The Treasurer's answer did not come to grips with the question. He said that financing from the Rural Credits Department will remain an integral part of funding the first advance; that there was no suggestion of shortening the repayment period. Then he repeated that funding from the Rural Credits Department would remain an integral part. Again the Treasurer plainly ducked the question which asked: Did the Government have a policy to transfer part of the Wheat Board's outstanding debt to the Reserve Bank to the private trading banks? Statements were made last week and finally last Friday the ABC's  National Farm Report  reported that there had been a Cabinet decision the previous day to transfer some $300m of the outstanding debt in that way. We have heard no more about it. I want to know what the Government has done about this arid what it intends to do. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  boasted a fortnight ago that the money supply was under control. We do not know whether at that stage the plan to transfer $250m to $300m of the debt to the trading banks was operative or not or whether the plan had been abandoned by that stage or whether it has been resurrected subsequently. If the plan had not been abandoned when the Prime Minister boasted that the money supply was under control, what off-setting measures has the Government taken with regard to the $300m which it planned to withdraw from the money supply? If the Government has resurrected the plan to transfer some $300m from the Reserve Bank to the trading banks, we want to know that. But why will the Government not come clean on this? It would be a quite reasonable proposition because of the unexpected size of the harvest and its money supply implication for the Government to have made such a move. Why will it not do it in the open? What is the role of the Wheat Board in all this? Why is the General Manager of the Wheat Board lying to the Press, assuming that the  Australian Financial Review's  report is correct? It is time that the Government came clean and told the wheatgrowers and the country precisely what it intends to do about this. If the Prime Minister is going to boast as he did a fortnight ago that the money supply is under control, there is a clear obligation upon him to let the nation know what action the Government is taking, has taken or contemplates taking to offset the very substantial increase in liquidity caused by the size of the wheat harvest. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 

 General Business taking precedence of Government Business at 8 p.m. 

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. , 
asked the Minister for Abor  iginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister'sDepartment to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 1 0 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd;  (0  Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; (f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd;  (0  Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) How much does the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation propose to spend on domestic promotion campaigns during 1978-79. 
2 ) Are tenders called for public relations firms and/or advertising firms to undertake these activities. 
3 ) What firms have so far been engaged. 
What fees are they to receive. 
) On what basis are these fees determined. 
Do any members of the Board of the Corporation have any financial interest in any firms engaged for public relations and/or advertising; if so, what are the details. 
Has  Mr Harry  M. Miller made a declaration of his interests in any firms which have sought or are seeking to gain contracts from the Corporation for public relations and /or advertising. 
-Does the Minister representing the Prime Minister know why a prominent member of the National Country Party in trouble with the law was sacked from a government consultancy position by a Liberal Minister when two Country Party Ministers who had appointed him to statutory corporations did not take similar action? Do Liberal Party Ministers insist on higher standards than Country Party Ministers or are Country Party Ministers reluctant to establish potentially embarrassing precedents which make propriety in business a qualification for public office? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
I would just like to seek some further clarification from the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  on a couple of points that I raised. The Minister said that each State is assured of a reimbursement from the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia trust fund of at least 75 per cent of the moneys contributed by that State. The question is: How? I cannot find the answer in the legislation, and since no one has suggested that the legislation sets the matter out I assume that it is not covered by the legislation or by regulation. But I assume from the Minister's remarks that the 75 per cent assurance is by private guarantee or by private arrangement between the Minister and CEMAA. My first question is whether it is just a private agreement at this stage unenforceable by any regulation? 
Yes, a gentlemen's agreement. 
-Yes. I wish to ask the Minister a second question. We have been told that the levy will not be struck in the Northern Territory. I gather from the Minister's remarks that subsequently, by regulation, a hen levy could be imposed if this is desired. Is it envisaged that such a levy will be struck before any payments are made from the CEMAA fund to Northern Territory egg producers? 
No. My second question is in respect of the Northern Territory only. The Minister said that a levy will not apply in the Northern Territory initially but implied, I thought, that at some later date a levy could be imposed by regulation without the legislation being amended further. If that is correct I ask whether it is envisaged that prior to any reimbursements being made from the fund to Northern Territory egg producers a levy will be struck on those producers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) What conditions apply to the superannuation rights of Qantas employees who leave and then subsequently resume employment with the airline. 
Has any exception been made to these rules from 1969 to 1978; if so: 
what are the names of the employees for whom exceptions were made; 
on whose authority was each exception granted; and 
was one of the exceptions a  Ms A.  Waller. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What quantity of: (a) whisky; (b) rum; (c) vodka; (d) brandy; (e) gin; and  (0  other spirits, was cleared from bond in each month during 1977 and 1978. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government. I ask whether there is any regulation or convention which would inhibit or preclude a former  Chairman  of the parliamentary Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on his retirement from Parliament from accepting a job lobbying on behalf of an armaments manufacturer Government and departmental contacts he established as Committee  Chairman.  Is it correct that former  Senator Cormack  is now a lobbyist for the French aviation group OFEMA, the maker of the Mirage 2000 aircraft? 
The two Bills which are before the Senate, the Poultry Industry Assistance Amendment Bill (No.  2)  and the Poultry Assistance Levy Amendment Bill, are complementary. The levy Bill raises the levy imposed on licenced hens from a maximum of $  1  in the pre-existing legislation to a maximum of  $2.  The associated measure also authorises, under conditions which are not stipulated in the Bill so far as I can tell, reimbursements from the levy proceeds to egg producers in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory. So far as I can tell, there  is no provision for levying hens kept by egg producers in the Northern Territory, but that is a matter I will be taking up in the Committee stage or on which I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  to advise us in his reply to the second reading debate. 
The purpose of this legislation is to maintain what is perhaps somewhat euphemistically called orderly marketing and what could be more accurately described as the maintenance of a two-tiered pricing system under which sales of eggs on the domestic market are concluded at considerably higher prices than those which prevail on the export market. The difference varies from State to State but the difference in the returns from those two markets is in the vicinity of 60c a dozen, which is a very large gap given that eggs in various States sell for from a bit under $ 1 a dozen to around $1.27 a dozen. The effect of any export production, of course, when the returns are equalised to producers, is that the higher the volume of exports the lower the average price returned to producers. At present, if we were in what I see as the ideal situation where egg production exactly fitted domestic egg consumption at prevailing prices, average producer returns would be some 10c a dozen higher than they are now. About 15 per cent of total production is exported at prices around 60c a dozen below those prices realised on the domestic market. 
Although there are some obviously unsatisfactory elements in that situation, it is vastly preferable to that which existed prior to 1975 when the broad framework for the existing marketing legislation was laid down. At that stage some 30 per cent of total Australian production was exported and there was no overriding Commonwealth legislation. The various State boards operated under the shield of State legislation alone. So at the very worst one would have to say that the existing marketing arrangements are much more satisfactory, both for the Australian egg producer and consumer, than the pre- 1965 arrangements prior to the Commonwealth's entry legislatively into the field. This is for the reason I stated previously; that is, under present prices on domestic and export markets and the prices which have pertained on those markets for a very long time, the greater the quantity that is exported the lower the price to egg producers will be and /or the higher the prices paid by Australian egg consumers will be. 
When the original legislation was passed in 1965 it was incumbent upon the States to license all poultry flocks of more than 20 birds- flocks being defined as commercial flocks if they contained more than 20 birds- to impose a limit on the number of hens that could be legally kept. The levy was struck on the basis of a maximum of $1 a bird on all those licensed hens. The proceeds which are derived from this hen levy have been used in the past to subsidise, through the State egg boards, the losses incurred on export sales. The present levy of $1 a bird has not been sufficient for some time for that practice to continue and in fact the State egg boards have been informally subsidising exports from the proceeds of domestic sales as well as from the proceeds of the hen levy. It is for that reason basically that the present proposal to increase the levy from its present maximum of $1 to $2 a bird is before the Parliament. The Opposition is not opposing the measure. 
In my view, there are clearly some undesirable features built into the present marketing arrangements and the fund from which the losses on exports are subsidised. The Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia trust fund is a central fund, but the control of hen numbers in the various States lies in the hands of the State egg marketing boards and ultimately the State governments. So we have what I believe is always an undesirable separation of financial liability and responsibility to control production. Not surprisingly, this system, over the 14 years that it has operated, has led to significant interstate transfers of payments and receipts. 
It can be seen from a table which I will seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  shortly that, for example, New South Wales has received almost $8m more from the CEMAA fund than New South Wales hen licensees paid to the fund; Victoria has contributed to the fund $3.6m more than it has received; Western Australia has paid in some $3. 8m more than it has received; and South Australia has received some $3m more than it has paid in. The greatest anomaly in proportionate terms, although not in absolute terms, arising from this arrangement affects the producers in the Australian Capital Territory, of whom there are only a few. They supply only the local market. They have paid in some $860,000 and have received no reimbursements from the fund. I will be asking some questions about that matter later. I seek permission to incorporate the table in  Hansard.  It shows payments into and out of the CEMAA fund since 1965 on a State basis. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="080232197903270_35_2.jpg"></graphic>

-The table clearly shows that there are financial inequities between the States in the present system. I have been told by people in the egg industry that the new arrangements under this legislation will eliminate this interstate income transfer. If so, I think that it is a move to be commended. It is a movement towards bringing power and responsibility together instead of separating them, which is always desirable. However, I am not able to find in either of the amending Bills or in the second reading speech of the Minister for Science and the Environment any indication of how that objective will be achieved. The Minister's second reading speech states: 
The assurance of CEMAA provides that if any State Egg Board receives levy reimbursements in excess of its equalisation requirements - 
That means to subsidise the losses incurred on exports- the excess money will be returned direct to the producers in the State on a per hen basis. 
I fail to see how that assurance provides any guarantee that payments into the fund on a State basis will equal payments out of the fund on a State basis. Other sections of the Minister's second reading speech state that the CEMAA levy and fund will be used to pay the pooling charges and research expenditure incurred within the States. That does not really affect the central question that I am asking. I can see no sure provision within the legislation or the second reading speech which guarantees this highly desirable objective that payments into and out of the trust fund on a State basis will be equalised or will at least be proportionate. 
I will explain why I think that that is necessary. If each State is able to cover the total losses incurred on exports from that State, or what the Minister calls its equalisation requirement, there is no direct disincentive for that State to license an excessive number of birds in the State. The losses incurred in the industry as a whole by licensing an excessive number of birds will not be picked up by the producers and the egg boards within that State, but will be spread over all the egg producers in Australia. I trust that I can get a satisfactory answer to that question. It is certainly the belief of the egg industry producers to whom I spoke that such an equalisation of payments and receipts on a State basis will be achieved. 

 Senator Ryan and the honourable member for Fraser,  Mr Fry,  have contacted me on this matter on behalf of the poultry producers in the Australian Capital Territory. They are seeking some guarantee that the payments from the CEMAA fund to the producers in the Australian Capital Territory will be commensurate with the payments into that fund by Australian Capital Territory producers. The Australian Capital Territory producers in the past have not contributed to surplus egg production. Therefore, their argument is that they should not be compelled or required to subsidise the losses on exports from surplus stocks which occur in other States. It is a point of view which I personally think is valid. Some poultry producers in northern Queensland have also complained in the past that they do not contribute to the egg surplus and therefore they should not have to subsidise the export losses. I think that their case is somewhat weaker on these grounds: The Australian Capital Territory is the political unit which controls the number of birds which are licensed within the Territory, whereas the political unit under which the north Queensland producers operate is the whole State of Queensland. While within the context of the State of Queensland they may have a valid complaint that they are paying for the excess production but not contributing to it, I think that that argument should be pursued with the State Government of Queensland, which is the political unit controlling the allocation of hen licences in that State. The Australian Capital Territory is its own political unit for this purpose. 
There have been some complaints from producers in Tasmania also. I did not cite the Tasmanian figure; but over the 14 or 15 years Tasmania is another State which has paid considerably more into the CEMAA fund than it has received from it. Proportionately, I think that the case in the Australian Capital Territory is somewhat stronger than the Tasmanian case. The case that the north Queensland producers have against the State of Queensland is possibly also stronger; but I do not think that this Parliament is the place in which to pursue that matter. 
It is rather disappointing when one looks over the statistics for egg production and exports over the last few years to find that in spite of the objective of the present marketing legislation, that is, to bring production and domestic consumption as much as possible into balance, we seem to be struck with a fairly consistent surplus of 15 per cent; that is, 15 per cent of total production is still exported. While it is probably quite feasible to eliminate those exports entirely, it seems that there ought to be considerable scope for reducing that 15 per cent to something of the order of 5 to 10 per cent. This would provide the potential for benefits to both egg producers and the Australian consumers. I am also reliably informed that in some States at least, and particularly in New South Wales, the licence to keep hens has a considerable value in itself. I am reliably informed that the value of the licence on the market per se- not the capitalised value of the sheds, et cetera- is in the vicinity of $12 a bird. 
I have two comments to make about that matter. Firstly, I am a little surprised that it is so high in New South Wales when, in fact, egg prices there are the lowest of all the States. Prices are marginally lower in the Australian Capital Territory than they are in New South Wales, or were a few months ago when the last statistics which I have were produced, and considerably lower than they are in the other States. One would expect, therefore, that the capitalised value of the licence would be lower in New South Wales than it is elsewhere but instead it appears to be higher. If that is the situation it certainly suggests that the poultry producers in New South Wales are either more efficient or that, for some reason which is not readily apparent, have lower costs of production than producers in other States. Whichever it is, if the licence to keep hens has a significant market value it suggests that the price of eggs could be lower than it is. Certainly the price of eggs could be lower if domestic production and consumption were brought more into balance than they have been in the past. 
The Minister rushed hurriedly into the chamber when I first started speaking and appeared a little confused. I have some questions which I would like him to answer either at this second reading stage or in the Committee stage. Firstly, what are the provisions, if any, which will, if not guarantee that the payments into and from the fund on a State basis are in balance, at least ensure that they are much closer to being in balance than they have been in the past? Secondly, will egg producers in the Northern Territory be subject to the levy? Thirdly, what guarantees, if any, can the Government give that Australian Capital Territory egg producers will receive an equitable distribution of the funds of the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia, and by 'equitable' I mean commensurate with their payments to that fund? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 28 February 1 979: 
1 ) What was the quantity of wool shipped to Europe on the ABC Lines vessels. 
In accordance with answer to part (6) of question number 2378 on the House of Representatives notice paper was the Minister for Primary Industry or the Minister for Transport given complete details of the size, nature and legal implications of the shipment. If so, was the advice given in writing and to whom and on what date or dates. 
Is it correct that the Australian Wool Corporation agreed to make payments to certain members of the Australian Council of Woolbuyers equivalent to all or part of the savings made on the shipment of wool on the ABC Lines as against the Conference Lines operating on the Australia to Europe trade. 
Was the notion that the Australian Wool Corporation should pay all or part of the payments to members of the Australian Council of Woolbuyers the Corporation 's suggestion or some other organisation's suggestion. If the latter, who made the suggestion. 
Has the payment been made to members of the Australian Council of Woolbuyers, and if so, what was the total amount paid. If it has not been paid, when will it be paid. 
Is the payment being made direct to members of the Australian Council of Woolbuyers or is it being made through some other body and if so what is the name of that body. 
Was the approval of either the Minister for Transport or the Minister for Primary Industry sought for such payments to be made and if so, when. 
If specific approval was not sought, was either Minister informed prior to the payment being made and if so on what date. 
If it is correct that the payment has been made or is to be made by the Corporation to members of the Australian Council of Woolbuyers, does it imply that the shipment of wool on the ABC Lines was a breach of the agreement with the Australia to Europe Shipping Conference and if so does it mean also that the shipment was more than a trial as described in answer (9) of question 2378 and that if future shipments are undertaken while the Australian Wool Corporation is a signatory to the contract with the Conference that the precedent exists for further payments to be made to members of the Australian Council of Woolbuyers. 
10) Was the wool shipped on the ABC Lines owned by the Australian Wool Corporation or members of the Australian Council of Woolbuyers. If owned by the AWC was it purchased at auction or through the LOPS scheme. 
1 1 ) What was the actual savings in the rate of freight and what is the refund per bale to be made back to the Australian Council of Woolbuyers. 
On what basis was it decided that the payment if made or to be made should be made to the Australian Council of Woolbuyers instead of direct to the woolgrowers from whom the corporation had bought the wool. 
Was the decision made as a result of discussions between the Australian Wool Corporation and representatives of the Australian Council of Woolbuyers and if so which representatives of the ACW and on what date. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Treasurer's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb TariffServices Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; (f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate because possibly it covers more than one portfolio. Did the Australian Wheat Board suspend first advance payments on growers' warrants between 20 January and 3 February or thereabouts? If so, why has the Board 's general manager denied it? Did the Board suspend payment because the Reserve Bank's rural credit department refused to increase the Board's overdraft? When, and on whose authority, did the Board get extra finance and resume payments on growers' warrants and who in the Government and /or the bureaucracy instructed the Reserve Bank, on or about 20 January, to stop the Board's overdraft from exceeding $800m or $850m? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: 
a ) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; 
b) Cramb TariffServices Pty Ltd; 
Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; 
Dunkley International Ltd; 
e ) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd ; 
Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; 
International Public Relations; 
Macintosh Parkes and Associates; 
Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and 
Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, on notice, on 21 March 1979: 
Does the Government intend to close the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization establishment at Baker's Hill, Western Australia; if so: (a) what is the proposed date of closure; and (b) what are the reasons for the closure. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry refers to the Government's announcement that it will subsidise the differential in interest rates between that which would have been payable by the Australian Wheat Board to the Reserve Bank and that which the Wheat Board will now have to pay to the trading banks as a proportion of their overdrafts. I ask: Will special legislation be introduced to authorise these payments? If not, in what way will the payments be made? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; (f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met with representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; (f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j ) Eric White Associates? 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion? 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion? 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration? 
I move: 
That, in the opinion of the Senate, the following is a matter of urgency: 
The Government's failure to adhere to a coherent interest rate and money supply policy, particularly its procrastination over funding wheat growers' first advance payments and over its own borrowing program. 
In the 1 977 election campaign, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  gave a number of unequivocal guarantees. He guaranteed that unemployment would fall continuously from February 1978; in fact it has gone up by 50,000. He guaranteed that within a year inflation would be running at between 6 per cent and 8 per cent. For the calendar year 1978 the Prime Minister just managed to break that upper limit. The consumer price index went up by 7.9 per cent. Everyone now knows that inflation is rising and many informed observers expect it to be 10 per cent this calendar year. He also guaranteed that interest rates would fall by 2 per cent within a year.  His  exact words were: 
It is a target that can and will be achieved. 
Recently, with the objectivity of a Stalinist, in a television interview with Capital Communication Services News, he, like a Stalinist, qualified and re-wrote his words. He re-wrote history. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I believe that the word  'Stalinist'  in the Australian context is an unfortunate word to use. I would appreciate your withdrawing it,  Senator Walsh. 
To overcome the problem, I will withdraw the reference,  Mr Deputy President.  However, I did refer to the objectivity of a 
Stalinist.  Stalinists are not noted for their objectivity; that is the point. They are noted for rewriting history in a way that is convenient to them for propaganda purposes. That is the meaning of the term 'objectivity of a  Stalinist'.  People can draw their own conclusions from this. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Mcintosh  is sitting in the Whip's place and today he is the acting Whip. Perhaps he will speak from his own seat. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Walsh,  I believe that you are retaining the inference you first made, and I would appreciate your making a complete withdrawal. 
I withdraw,  Mr Deputy President.  I will just let the facts speak for themselves. Some 15 months ago the Prime Minister gave an unequivocal guarantee that interest rates would fall by 2 per cent within a year. 'It is a target that can and will be achieved ', he said. On 9 February this year he said: 
What I said was: there could be reductions of up to 2 per cent . . . It was not an absolute statement. 
It is a target that can and will be achieved', he said. That sounds to me like an absolute statement. On the question of interest rates,  Mr Fraser  could be said to be the last of the school men, that is, the mediaeval moralists who believed that interest rates were immoral, were evil, and were usury, and tried to ban them.  Mr Fraser  appears to believe that interest rates can be fixed by government fiat at any desired level without affecting any other important economic variable. Perhaps a more distant historical metaphor would be more appropriate. He could be called the Canute of finance. 
By a combination of bluff and hectoring, aided by  some  very peculiar manipulations of the bond market by the Reserve Bank of Australia and false expectations of capital gains on government securities by investors, most interest rates did, in fact, fall by between one-half of one per cent and one per cent during 1978. The illusion that interest reductions were sustainable was temporarily maintained. In November 1 978, in spite of a weakening balance of payments, rising inflation in Australia, rising interest rates abroad and a Budget deficit out of control for the second year in succession, the Government actually cut the long term bond rate from 9 per cent to 8.8 per cent. That policy marked the high summer of money management by magic. It did not last. When it failed, the Prime Minister, as is his custom, blamed the bureaucrats for giving him bad advice; but the simple truth is that the policy could not last unless the money supply was allowed to run wild and it nearly did run wild. 
The annual growth rate of M3 in February of this year was 12 per cent, and it may well go higher. That is the record of a Friedmanite government which believes that the future rate of inflation can be determined precisely by subtracting the real gross domestic product rate from the money supply growth rate. By February the mutual exclusiveness of his interest policy and money supply control was becoming apparent, even to the Prime Minister. The outcome of that awakening was a weak compromise- no February loan but a conversion loan with the bond rate going up from 8.8 per cent to 9 per cent. Superimposed on the Government's mismanagement in this period was an additional problem- the monetary implications of funding the Australian Wheat Board 's overdraft to make first advance payments to wheat growers. The Government responded to this problem with a mixture of procrastination and sly attempts to coerce the Wheat Board- attempts which have compromised both the Board and the Government. 
At the end of November the Government announced, after its usual procrastination while the Liberal and Country parties sorted out their intra-Cabinet squabbles, that the first advance would be $75 a tonne less growers' freight. When the matter was first put before Cabinet, that is some time early in November, it was believed that the wheat deliveries would be about 12 million tonnes. Arrangements were made to provide $800m to the rural credit department of the Reserve Bank to make the required first advance payment to growers. When the $75 a tonne announcement was made finally it was known that the harvest would exceed those earlier estimates. As the harvest progressed estimates were revised upwards progressively. In mid-January it was known that deliveries could reach 17 million tonnes, a figure which ultimately was exceeded. Reserve Bank funding of wheat growers' advances has exactly the same effect on the money supply, at least in the short term, as printing currency. The wheat harvest ultimately added 3 per cent to M3, which was a full one per cent more than the Government had anticipated in November when it made the $75 a tonne announcement. 
The Government certainly was aware of this problem by mid-January, if not earlier. The proper response, as the Syntec newsletter of 5 March scathingly observed, would have been to come clean with the public and instruct the Wheat Board to draw commercial bills for part of the money but the Government chose not to do this. What it did do is not entirely clear but we know that the Board ran out of money on or about 23 January and stopped making payments on growers' delivery warrants. Payments were resumed about a fortnight later after the Reserve Bank had increased the Board 's overdraft limit, thereby enabling the Board to make the first advance payments on all warrants tendered. Payment delays of a couple of weeks are not unusual so not very many wheat growers noticed that anything was wrong or that payments had been suspended for a period. However, a few letters of complaint have appeared in the agricultural Press. The prima facie case is that the Government, instead of openly stating its difficulty, as Syntec and others told it it should have, and instructing the Board, simply refused to allow the Board any more money. It believed it could secretly coerce the Board into drawing bills on the commercial market to fund all advances in excess of $800m. When the Board refused to comply, the Government, after a bluff period of about two weeks, allowed the Board sufficient funds to pay a $75 advance on all wheat deliveries. 
If the Genera] Manager of the Wheat Board was reported accurately in the  Australian Financial Review  editorial of 28 February he lied when questioned on the matter. The Board, contrary to his statement, did suspend payments. The Board and its Manager were placed in an untenable position by the Government's sleazy manoeuvring, about which it still refuses to come clean. The Government will answer no questions on this matter.  Senator McLaren  first raised a question on 21 February and got an irrelevant answer. I asked a question last Tuesday and was told to put it on notice. Many more questions were evaded between those dates. We know that the Board suspended payment on or about 20 January because it could not get more money from the Reserve Bank. What we want to know is who issued the instruction to the Bank not to fund fully the first advance as it always had done previously. Was the scheme to coerce the Board conceived by John Stone? Did he sell the idea privately to the Prime Minister? If it was not conceived and implemented in that way, how was it conceived and who implemented it? Who gave the instruction that the Reserve Bank was not to lend more than $800m to the Board? Who later rescinded that instruction, on 3 February or thereabouts, and allowed the Board to increase its overdraft? The public, the Opposition and the wheat growers are entitled to know these things. I gather from the notes that he is making that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  will reply. We will probably hear another lengthy monologue about the alleged sins of the Whitlam Government, inflation and money supply control, unemployment and so on. 
But let  Senator Carrick  address himself to these questions for once. Let him be relevant for once. Who issued the instruction to the Reserve Bank that it was not to allow the Wheat Board an overdraft of more than $800m. Was it John Stone in collaboration with the Prime Minister? Was it the Reserve Bank in collaboration with the Prime Minister? If not, who was it, and who in the bureaucracy or the Government subsequently reversed that decision, on or about 3 February, and allowed the Reserve Bank to provide the Board with sufficient funds to meet its full obligation? 
Ater payments were resumed early in February the Government's duplicity and procrastination continued. Having failed to make the Board 'volunteer' to go to the commercial market and after allowing it to resume payment, the Government then leaned on the Board to transfer portion of its $ 1,200m debt to the trading banks. The Press was leaking that fact through most of February. Questions in Parliament were evaded consistently by the Government. Finally, the day after the first parliamentary session closed- that was on 9 March-  Mr Fraser  announced to the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce, of all places, that between $150m and $450m of the Wheat Board's debt to the Reserve Bank would be transferred to the trading banks. I understand that $155m has now been transferred. The Government has said that it will pay the interest differential of about 2 per cent on whatever amount is transferred. My question yesterday on how the payment was to be made ran into the usual stone wall: 'Put the question on notice '. 
The whole Wheat Board charade is a measure of the Government's innate dishonesty and incompetence, or perhaps of the Liberal Party's chronic incapacity to discipline the economic hillbillies with whom it is in coalition- shades of 1971 and the cowardly decision not to revalue the dollar. If the Government had come clean in January it could have avoided all the destabilising speculation which has followed this manoeuvre. It could have avoided compromising the Wheat Board by putting its General Manager in the position where he felt it was obligatory to lie to the financial Press. The Syntec newsletter of 5 March states that this is a prime example of poor government management. I should like to quote a few extracts from that report. It is not exactly a left wing publication. In part, it states: 
The Government must have known several months ago that the new wheat crop had been vastly underestimated . . . 
Yet it proceeded with a first advance payment to growers of $75 per tonne, thus creating some $500m in unscheduled new money. 
I repeat that that has exactly the same effect on the money supply as printing bank notes. It continues: 
Once this was done, the Government should have acted quickly to counter the new money creation. 
The Wheat Board should have been instructed months ago to draw commercial bills for part of the first advance money. 
Then the Syntec newsletter concludes on this note: 
If it becomes apparent abroad that the Fraser Government is much less competent in internal monetary management than its boasts in the US would imply, then there is danger that run-out on private sector capital account will offset the significant improvement now occurring on trade account. 
What does this sordid, sorry charade do to the Government's attempt to persuade the world that it is on top of the job of money control and general economic management? Leaving aside this bizarre episode, the Government, in a broader field, continues to flounder in the economic morass of its own making. It has been forced to make some concessions to reality. Local government borrowing rates went up from 9.4 per cent to 9.7 per cent this week but the Government still fails to admit that the interest rate and money supply policies it proclaimed and propped up throughout 1978 are mutually exclusive. It is still stuck with the Prime Minister's election boast that a 2 per cent interest reduction is a target that can and will be achieved. That is an absolute statement. The more rustic version of the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  on the same theme is reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 26 November 1977, where he said: 'Interest rates will come down by 2 per cent in the next 12 months or I will eat my hat.' May he suffer severe indigestion. The 
Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  at least for the present, is more prudent. Yesterday, in answer to a question from  Mr Hayden  he stated: 
. I will not guarantee the level of interest rates in any area of the Australian economy. 
What he did not say was that the Government will not admit what are the actual interest rates. The Government has lost control of the money supply. It clings to the fiction that the bond rate is 9 per cent when last week the Reserve Bank of Australia could sell only 35 per cent of its issue at an interest rate of 9.46 per cent and when for weeks the market rate for long term government securities has been between 9.3 per cent and 9.5 per cent. Kenneth Davidson, the economic writer for the Melbourne  Age-  this is only a sample of what the financial Press and writers have been saying this week- on Tuesday, 3 April, stated: 
Unless yesterday's test run did not fairly reflect the market, it would suggest that a market rate for long-term Government securities is higher than 9.S percent. 
That is what the real rate of interest is now, not only because Kenneth Davidson says so but also because the market performance has proved it. Kenneth Davidson's opinion or his assessment of the situation has been endorsed in general by the financial Press. The Government now seeks to obscure reality with its tap and tender system which is to become operative but, as usual, we do not know when. If the Government knows, it has not told us. The indications are that it will become operative sometime towards the end of 1979. What happens in the meantime? Will the normal May loan be floated? Will there be an August loan? If not, what does the Government propose to do about its record deficit shooting $500m or more above its estimate? The Melbourne  Age  put the matter succinctly in yesterday's editorial. After noting that inflation was going up and that 12 per cent money supply growth could accommodate higher inflation in the next 1 2 months the  Age  stated: 
The only way to deal with this problem is for the Government to sell more securities to the public, and this means a lift in official interest rates now.  Mr Fraser  may be hesitating because of the Victorian State election next month. This would be foolish as well as irresponsible. 
I am not sure whether the Melbourne  Age  was suggesting that  Mr Fraser  would behave responsibly if he knew what the responsible part was, but of course  Mr Fraser  knows very well- as do most of his back benchers- that his back benchers are going to depose him as leader before the end of the year if the Hamer Government loses the Victorian election. When the question of self-preservation, reponsibility, selfinterest or national interest arises,  Mr Fraser  typically opts for self-interest. 
I withdraw,  Mr President.  He makes no arrangements. The Government has no policy on how it will fund its ballooning deficit. An announcement will not even be made until after the Victorian election, at the very least. In the meantime speculation grows and the situation becomes more and more unstable. More and more potential investors overseas are becoming aware of the fact that the Fraser Government has lost control of the money supply, that it has been pursuing policies which are mutually exclusive, untenable, indefensible and which in fact are crumbling and in decay. The Government's only response at this stage is to fund its ballooning deficit with short-term Treasury notes. All that that does is transfer the deficit problem- the money supply management problem- from this financial year into next financial year. I dare say that the Prime Minister's time horizon does not extend beyond 5 May because he knows that his survival as leader of the Liberal Party depends on whether the Victorian Government is defeated in the coming election. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) What is the amount of compensation payable in each State under the National Bovine Brucellosis and Tuberculosis Eradication Campaign. 
By what means are these amounts determined and fixed. 
Is the approval of the relevant State Parliament necessary. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Prime Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
The statement which the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  has just had incorporated in  Hansard  was made in the House of Representatives by the Minister for National Development,  Mr Newman,  on 5 April. It purports to be an energy policy. Indeed, on the first page the Minister asserts that this Government has an active, well integrated and well coordinated energy policy. The Minister claimed that it was a successful policy. Only a Minister as insensitive as  Mr Newman  could have made such a statement about this document at that time. It is supremely ironic that on the very day the statement was delivered in the House of Representatives, one which purported to demonstrate a well integrated and co-ordinated energy policy, the import parity pricing policy, which is the Government's substitute for an energy policy- it does not have an energy policy; it has a crude oil pricing policy- was buried. 
On 5 April,  Senator Durack,  on behalf of the Minister, told us that the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries premium, which has been running recently at about $4 a barrel, would not be incorporated in the pricing determination of Australian crude oil on 1 July and that the 9. 1 per cent OPEC increase on 1 April, and any subsequent increase on 1 July, would be considered by the Government before the end of June. We were told that the Government would consider whether those increases would be incorporated in the price of domestic crude oil. This policy, which was to have been the import parity pricing for Australian crude oil and was supposed to have been the greatest thing to hit the country since the merino, was buried on 5 April 1979. It lasted just eight months which, at least, is five months longer than the Government's car industry policy which lasted until 1976 and was to have lasted until 1984. The document contains such profound observations as this one which is found on page 9: 
Of course, self-sufficiency will be even further enhanced if, as we hope, major oil discoveries are made. 
The Minister said that self-sufficiency will be enhanced if further major oil discoveries are made. That is an example of the profundity which the Minister expresses in this statement.  His  ignorance is almost unbelievable. Having explained the Government's intention to have more vehicles currently burning petrol converted to natural gas he said on page 26: 
The measures I announced have been successful. They have been acted on widely and welcomed by fleet owners and private motorists alike. They have also been shamelessly plagiarised by the Opposition spokesman on energy. 
If this Minister was marginally less uninformed, or ill-informed- at least his Department should have told him- he would know that the 1977 Labor Party policy incorporated the very proposition which he claims the Opposition plagiarised from him in March of 1979. 
Yes. It is an excellent example of the ignorance and the inadequacy of this particular Minister. If he had delved back a bit further into the 1 975 Labor Party platform he would have found it there as well. On page 5 of his statement he again displays his ignorance in this claim: 
. our pricing policy - 
That is, import parity pricing for new oil discoveries-  has already led to an increase in reserves of some 600-700 million barrels, equivalent to about three years consumption. 
He said 'our pricing policy', mind you. That pricing policy which the Minister claims as his own is the pricing policy introduced in September 1975 by the then Labor Government. All of the 600 million to 700 million barrels of oil which have been added to reserves have been discovered in Bass Strait, and insofar as import parity pricing for new discoveries is an incentive to explore for oil, that incentive has existed since 1975. 1 know that oil company touts such as Messrs Froggatt and Charlton have been running around the countryside trying to con people into believing that import parity pricing for new discoveries dates from the 1978 Budget. The oil companies have an obvious vested interest in attempting to mislead the public into believing that the massive windfall gains which a couple of oil companies received as a result of the 1 978 decision were synonymous with import parity pricing for new discoveries. In fact, the incentive has applied since 1975. The massive handouts to oil companies which this Government gave in 1 977 and 1 978 added no new incentive to oil exploration over and above the incentive which has been in existence since 1 975. 
This pathetic novice who is currently the Minister for National Development is, of course, highly embarrassed. He lurches along in the shadow of Paul Keating, the honourable member for Blaxland, trying desperately to be noticed. He is trying to show that he is capable of discharging the important job which has been allocated to him and is capable of matching Paul Keating in the area of either policy conception or policy presentation. The document before the Senate represents the Minister's pathetic attempt to achieve some sort of equality with the excellent document which Paul Keating put out a couple of weeks before the Minister's report was presented. He must be a serious embarrassment to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  If people feel inclined to waste sympathy on the Prime Minister for being saddled with a novice in such an important policy area, I suggest that they cast their minds back to the reasons that the Minister for National Development was put in the ministry in the first place. The Fraser Government had to have a Tasmanian Minister. By far the most competent and experienced Tasmanian politician in this place, and the only Tasmanian politician at that time fit to be a Minister, was of course  Senator Rae,  but he was excluded from the Fraser Government because he was a supporter of  Mr Snedden.  Insofar as it was the Prime Minister's pique towards  Senator Rae  which was responsible for  Mr Newman  being in the ministry, and that is the reason  Mr Newman  was appointed, it serves the Prime Minister right. He will have to cop him; he will have to live with him. 
No sensible person could accept the Government's glib assurance that it has a considered energy policy when as recently as the week in which the policy was presented a contradication emerged. Speaking on behalf of the Minister for National Development,  Senator Durack  said that import pricing parity would not necessarily apply from then on. However, the Prime Minister made a speech on 2 April, only three days before that statement was made, in which he said that some countries had attempted to insulate their economies from movements in international oil prices resulting in their using an excessive amount of the world's energy. He said that Australia could not stave off the necessity of adjusting to the reality of international oil prices. So the Prime Minister contradicted  Mr Newman  that very week.  Mr Newman  even contradicted himself in a statement delivered on his behalf by 

 Mr Viner in Perth on the same day, 2 April. He said that the Government's pricing policy in respect of oil and gas was that crude oil prices should reflect the value of oil in the Australian and world markets. That was on 2 April. On 5 April, the following Thursday,  Senator Durack  announced in the Senate on  Mr Newman's  behalf that import parity pricing was dead, that the OPEC premium would not be considered at all, and that the 9.1 per cent OPEC price increase of 1 April and any subsequent increase would be considered by the Government when it determined the domestic crude oil price for the second half of this calendar year. Just to set the record straight,  Mr Newman,  in a statement which was issued on 29 December 1978, stated: 
We will calculate on I July a price which will reflect the price of light Arabian crude as set last December. 
He continued: 
The OPEC decision to increase the price of Arabian light crude oil by an additional 3.8 per cent on 1 April 1979 and 2.3 per cent on I July 1979 will be taken into account- 
I emphasise the words 'will be taken into account'-  in the next 6 monthly determination to be made for 1 July. 
There was no hedging and there were no qualifications whatsoever. It was the Government's policy that the OPEC posted price would determine the price of Australian crude oil and that on I July it would incorporate any increases before 1 July and an increase which became operative on 1 July. That was buried on 5 April, that is, on the very day that the Minister had the audacity to bring down a statement saying: 
This Government has an active, well integrated and well co-ordinated energy policy. 
Instead of having an energy policy it in fact had a crude oil pricing policy which was designed to raise revenue and which it buried on that very day. 
A couple of other points should be made. The Minister spoke of a well integrated and well coordinated energy policy and of a successful policy. Like a man shouting down a well, he hears his own voice. What is the Government's policy in respect of the pricing of natural gas? As  Mr Keating  eloquently pointed out in his paper, the Victorian Government is producing base-load electricity from natural gas priced at 20 per cent of opportunity cost and is talking about producing simultaneously synthetic oil from brown coal. Research by this Government is both underfunded and misdirected. 
In spite of the well known reality that nuclear power will not be economically viable in this country this century-  Sir Charles  Court's hallucinations notwithstanding; everyone knows that nuclear power will not be viable on purely economic grounds this centry- more money is devoted to nuclear research than to solar research. Solar energy is now being used in domestic water heaters. The technology has already been developed for the production of electricity via a chemical thermo-union process with the use of ammonia gas. It has been developed by researchers at the Australian National University on a grant of $100,000. What is the Government's research policy in relation to energy? It is to spend more on research into nuclear power, which we will not be using this century, than it is willing to allocate now for solar energy research. 
The excuse stated a month ago by the Minister for dropping import parity pricing was that the OPEC cartel is exploiting a world shortage of oil. Where has this fellow been since October 1 973? In October 1973 the OPEC cartel decided that it would exploit a world shortage of oil, that it would manage supplies and that it would quadruple prices. It did that. That was the excuse which the Government used for its policy in the 1978 Budget on import parity pricing for domestic crude oil. The Government said that that was the real price of oil and that was the price which we must pay. The full impact of that decision finally began to seep through into the Government's consciousness. More significantly, the impact certainly seeped into the consumer price index and pushed up inflation. That is the reason inflation is now moving up and will continue to move up for at least the rest of this calendar year. The Government finally has backed away from its import parity pricing policy. The pathetic excuse given by the Government is that the OPEC cartel is exploiting a shortage of oil which has been the case for the last 5  l/i  years. At last the Government has come to realise what has been happening. 
The Minister's statement boasts of the $l5m which is being spent by this Government on energy research but it neglects to mention that the expenditure of that sum is spread over three years. The Minister boasts about the 64 exploration permits issued in the last 12 months compared with 34 issued under the Labor Government. He boasts about the 52 exploration wells which are actually being sunk at the moment compared with 69 in 1973 and 54 in 1974. This is not exactly a spectacular achievement. In Canada 3,000 exploration wells are in the process of being sunk compared with 52 in Australia. 
Of course there was a slump in exploration in 1975, 1976 and 1977. The reason for that slump was the dispute in the High Court of Australia over the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. Immediately after the decision on the Seas and Submerged Lands Act was handed down in 1975, the then Labor Government introduced a policy of import parity pricing for new oil discoveries only, which this Government carried on and which is about the only rational component of its entire energy policy. However, the Minister seems to be unaware of this part of the Government's policy when he claims that import parity pricing for old oil is responsible for some recent increase in exploration. 
An excellent document was prepared by the Honourable Paul Keating and presented by him at the end of March. This document sets out the general attitudes of the Labor Party towards energy policy. The very favourable publicity that that document received was responsible for this pathetic novice who occupies the job that  Mr Keating  would hold if Labor were in government bringing out this quick cut-out and paste-up job on 5 April which has been presented to the Senate tonight. 
Yes, they certainly are. 1 will not attempt to summarise here the 65-page document which Paul Keating presented. But its major points are worth repeating and hopefully some of the more enlightened Government members might even take some notice of them. The first major point in the document was that import parity pricing or opportunity cost pricing should apply for all new discoveries of oil and gas. Of course, that has been policy ever since 1975 although the Minister is either unaware of it or he chooses to ignore it. Oil company touts like Messrs Froggatt and Charlton seek to mislead the public, no doubt quite deliberately, and to pretend that this policy dated from the 1978 Budget and was synonymous with the windfall gains which accrue to their vested interest by pricing old oil at the import parity price. 

 Mr Keating's second point was that geologically, there is more prospect in Australia of finding natural gas than oil and that gas is the best raw material for a liquid fuel substitute for petroleum, much cheaper and simpler with present or foreseeable technology than either ethanol from crops or synthetic oil from coal. What is the Government's policy on that matter? Does it endorse the Victorian Government's current actions of generating base load electricity from natural gas, which is technically and economically by far the best substitute raw material for liquid fuel, while the same Government talks about producing synthetic oil from brown coal? Could there be a more devastating example of common sense being stood on its head? This Government, which controls enormous reserves of brown coal which is suitable for the generation of base load electricity and totally unsuitable for the production of synthetic oil, burns natural gas to produce electricity and talks about turning brown coal into synthetic oil. 
The Victorian Government will use it in Newport. Has the honourable senator not heard about that? 
It is fuelled by natural gas. The honourable senator apparently does not know any more than his Minister. What is the attitude of this Liberal Government- it presumably has some affiliations with the other Liberal Party which is about to lose government in Victoria- to the scandalous waste of the ideal raw material for a liquid fuel substitute? The Victorian Government has compounded its initial mistake. I was at a factory at Ballarat a few weeks ago which produces French fries. A waste product from the process is a starch-rich slurry of potato peelings. This is dumped out of town. It bubbles away, ferments and stinks a bit. The locals have kicked up a fuss. The factory is going to install a closed fermenter to convert the starch into methane gas. In my innocence, not being fully aware of the absurdities of the energy pricing policy in Victoria, I said: 'I guess that you will be using the methane which you have produced for your own industrial heat in the plant'. The manager said: 'Oh no, we are just going to burn it off; flare it on the spot'. 
I am informed that this is done all over Victoria. Liquid petroleum gas, the manager said, was cheap because the Victorian Government not only supplies it at 20 per cent of opportunity cost but also transports it out and sells it at the same price in Ballarat as in Melbourne. This is a perfect example of what is going on with a well integrated and well coordinated energy policy. I do not know whether 

 Senator Young has any intention of speaking in this debate, but if he is to follow me perhaps he will give us an idea of whether he thinks the production of methane as part of a waste disposal process- the methane is flared off instead of being used in the factory- is a demonstration of co-ordination and integration. It is a quite rational decision for the company to make because of the Victorian Government's irrational energy pricing policy. 
I will run quickly through the other points of  Mr Keating's  policy. He makes the point which I have made at somewhat greater length, I suppose, that we will suffer from the absence of a coherent national energy policy with States running off in different directions without any lead being given by the Federal Government to what the States should be doing.  Mr Keating  stated that energy research is both under-funded and misdirected. The funds go to nuclear research for which there is no foreseeable commercial application. Very little goes to solar research. Finally he said that far too much emphasis had been placed on securing greater oil supplies relative to reducing consumption. High prices will have some effect on consumption in the longer term but they must be used in conjunction with more direct action; for example, direct regulations controlling motor vehicle size and design. What is the policy of this Government on that aspect? The paper presented by the Minister is silent on this point. 
Last Friday I attended a seminar in Cobar in western New South Wales. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  on behalf of the Minister read another paper. He told us of the things that should be done regarding motor cars and public transport. He mentioned all the things that would be required if we were to have an effective energy conservation policy. He then said: ' We will not do it. We do not believe in interfering with people's freedom'. So the Government cannot make up its mind whether it even wants a rational energy conservation policy. 
We were told also by  Mr Newman,  through  Mr Cotter,  how unwise it was for governments to tamper with natural market prices. On the next page he was boasting about what a great idea it was to tamper with the natural market price of fuel in inland centres by subsidising the freight costs. The Government obviously cannot make up its mind on that either. He also told us yet again that import parity pricing was the greatest thing to hit Australia since the merino, but he added that it would of course be administered flexibly. By that he meant that the recent OPEC increases would be- and this was his wordconsidered' by the Government and would not flow automatically into the price determination for domestic crude oil. There we have three demonstrations of doublespeak, and they are just the three that I remember. I do not have the complete speech; it was riddled with them. It was just another rehash of the incoherent and nonintegrated view presented on behalf of the Government by this Minister and is exactly the same as the veiw which was presented tonight. 
-What if who does? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) How many loans have been made by the Primary Industry Bank of Australia for commercial fishing ventures in each month since its establishment. 
) What is the total value of loans advanced by the Bank for such ventures in each of these months. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1 977 has the Prime Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd: (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; (f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
I ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty 
Ltd; ( f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What quantity of: (a) whisky; (b) rum; (c) vodka; (d) brandy; (e) gin; and (f) other spirits was cleared from bond in each month during 1977 and 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 20 March 1 979: 
1 ) Which members of Staff of the Minister's Department and of the Statutory Authorities for which he is responsible have taken part in exchange programs with private sector companies. 
What was the position of each staff member (a) before: and ( b ) after, his or her period in the private sector. 
Which companies did each work for and for what period. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
How many loans have been made in each State by the Primary Industry Bank of Australia: (a) up to $10,000; (b) between $10,000 and $20,000; (c) between $20,000 and $30,000; (d) between $30,000 and $50,000: (e) between $50,000 and $ 1 00,000; and ( f) over $ 1 00,000. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
What is the total amount of loans made by the Primary Industry Bank of Australia to borrowers in each of the following industries in each State: (a) dairy; (b) wheat; (c) wheat and sheep: (d) sheep: (e) fishing; (f) sugar; (g) cattle: (h) vegetable: (i) poultry: (j) tobacco; (k) wine and brandy; (I) fruit: and (m) other. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (c) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd: (f) Denis M.Gilmourand Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations: (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates: (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether he can guarantee that interest paid by the Australian Wheat Board in future years on loans to fund the first advance payment will not exceed the Reserve Bank Rural Credit Department's rate. 
I want to speak briefly to support a couple of the comments that  Senator Gietzelt  made and to add one more specific comment. There is prima facie a reason to look somewhat askance at the Distribution Commissioners who have been appointed, especially in the absence of any explanation from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  as to why a former associate of his from his former Department who has no apparent qualifications to be appointed as a Commissioner, especially in 
Western Australia, should have been appointed to this job.  Senator Gietzelt  has said that one would have thought, after all the trouble this Government got into as a result of the last redistribution in another State, that it would have endeavoured strenuously to see that justice was not only done, as  Senator Gietzelt  put it, but also was seen to be done. 
One possible explanation could be that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at least has a very hazy recollection of these matters. We remember, when the facts and the truth about the Queensland redistribution and the Royal Commission and its forerunner were being discussed in Cabinet about nine months ago, that the Prime Minister did not remember anything about it. He did not remember what comments Ministers had made to him. He did not remember what responses he had given to those comments that were made to him. Indeed, he invited those Ministers who had a clear recollection of Cabinet discussions pursuant to the problems in the Queensland redistribution brought to light by the allegations of a Liberal member of Parliament to amend the evidence which they had given on oath to the Royal Commission. The Prime Minister invited them to admit tacitly that they had perjured themselves before the Royal Commission. Of course, we all know how faulty the Prime Minister's memory is in respect of these matters. That may account for the Government's imprudence, or seeming imprudence, in appointing Distribution Commissioners to conduct another redistribution when at least one of those Commissioners appears to have no qualifications whatsoever to be appointed as a Commissioner but does have a pre-existing association with the Minister directly responsible for the redistribution. 

 Senator Withers might find this situation somewhat ironic. Of course, one of  Senator Withers  ' accessories in his actions with regard to the Queensland redistribution, if not before the fact then certainly after the fact, was the Prime Minister himself. When the Royal Commission 's report came down, the Prime Minister telephoned  Senator Withers  and said: 'You are in trouble'.  Senator Withers  said: 'You mean we are in trouble'. But no, it was  Senator Withers  who was in trouble. When they got caught  Senator Withers  had to take the rap; at least he has done so for the time being. Given that record, the only reason that readily occurs to me for the Government's not being more prudent on this occasion is the Prime Minister's remarkably faulty memory and recollection of previous events pertaining to redistributions. 
What I really want to mention is the clear dissatisfaction which we in the Labor Party are entitled to have concerning the boundaries of the Kalgoorlie electorate laid down in the last redistribution. In 1977 the Commonwealth Electoral Act required an aerial extension of the Kalgoorlie boundaries. The shire of Esperance was brought into the electorate, for which there was an historical precedent. After that, the electorate of Kalgoorlie contained 1,000 electors more than the minimum number required by the Act. We hear a lot of cant and humbug in this Parliament and in other Parliaments in Australia about the alleged necessity to pay some attention to equalising the areas of electorates. It is alleged that if an electorate covers a large geographical area it is necessary, as some sort of rough offset or rough compensation, to have fewer electors resident in that area. It is not an argument which I believe has a great deal of merit. But whatever merit it may have, if it is relevant anywhere it is relevant in the electorate of Kalgoorlie, which already covered more than a quarter of the area of this continent. It had a thousand more electors than the minimum required by the Act after the shire of Esperance had gone back in. However, not content with that, on that occasion the commissioners included in the Kalgoorlie electorate the shires of Perenjori, Three Springs, Carnamah and a portion of Yalgoo. Incidentally, there was no historical precedent for the first three of those shires being included in the Kalgoorlie electorate. In total, another 1,520 electors were added to the Kalgoorlie electoral roll. 
The names of those shires might not mean anything to people from the Eastern States who are not familiar with aerial voting patterns in Western Australia, but the fact is that in those shires the Labor vote in recent elections- going back about 10 years- has run at about 15 per cent. That is just above the vote that the League of Rights and its ilk acquire in those areas. So because of the totally unnecessary addition of those shires to the electorate of Kalgoorlie, the Liberal Party finished up with a net gain of in excess of a thousand votes. That was a seat which, at the time at least, was believed to be marginal. It certainly is marginal now. I hope that the actions of the new Minister responsible for this matterSenator Withers' successor- are better than they appear to be on the face of it, or are rather less suspicious than they appear to be on the face of it. I certainly hope that no anomaly, such as the completely unnecessary inclusion of those three rabidly Liberal or Liberal and League of Rights shires in the Kalgoorlie electorate, is repeated in the redistribution which is about to take place in Western Australia. 

 Senator CHANEY (Western AustraliaMinister for Aboriginal Affairs)- While listening to the latter part of the speech of  Senator Gietzelt  and the whole of the speech of  Senator Walsh,  it would have been easy to forget the words with which  Senator Gietzelt  opened his speech this evening, when he said quite clearly that he was not casting aspersions on the people who had been selected as commissioners. He said that he was not suggesting that there was any lack of confidence in their integrity. I think that those remarks, which I certainly welcomed, sat a little ill with some of the remarks which followed. 
The real thrust of the remarks which have been made tonight goes back to 1977. I must confess that I remember- I remembered more as I listened to the debate tonight- the debate which took place in 1 977 and, indeed, the reference made to Kalgoorlie. There was a certain amount of irony then and there is certainly irony now in the views which were expressed by  Senator Walsh  because, for the whole of my political life, I have listened to the Australian Labor Party complaining bitterly about a lack of concern about the principle of one vote one value. I think that those complaints on the whole have not been justified in Federal redistibutions, but it is common ground that both the present Government and the present Opposition took the view that the permissible difference between electorates- the margin which is allowedshould be reduced from the 20 per cent, which had applied for some 75 or more years, to 10 per cent. The process about which the Opposition complained in 1977 and the process about which it is complaining now with respect to what happened in 1 977 was part of the process of bringing the seat of Kalgoorlie into closer alignment in terms of numbers with the seats elsewhere in Western Australia. If there were to be a smaller discrepancy- if there were to be a greater equality of numbers between electorates- it follows that the seat of Kalgoorlie had to have numbers added to it. It had numbers added at both ends. Apparently, neither pleased  Senator Walsh. 
I think that the element of humbug in the Opposition view is best demonstated by simply looking at what happened in 1 977. It is terribly easy to make a global statement and to say: There you are, you had a redistribution and what happened? The Liberals won nine out of the 10 seats and the Labor Party could have won only two of the seats'. That is a very interesting view to take with hindsight. But I suggest to the 
Labor Party that if one looks at the figures one gains the very clear impression that the Labor Party was very lucky to win any seats at all. The overall global voting figures in Western Australia in 1977 are rather startling. I have little doubt that members of the ALP from Western Australia were deeply shocked by those figures and realised that they had a great deal of work to do to make up ground. I shall cite figures from the only source immediately to hand, namely the recent edition of the  Parliamentary Handbook.  They show that the Australian Labor Party in Western Australia won 32.79 per cent of the votes. On the other hand, the Liberal Party vote was 46.39 percent. 
Let us look down the list and see just how the Labor Party polled. In that blue ribbon Labor seat in Western Australia we find that John Sydney Dawkins picked up the grand total of 45 per cent of the primary votes. After a distribution of preferences, the Labor vote in the seat of Fremantle, where the vast majority of Labor votes were locked away unfairly, totalled 51.82 per cent. That is the best that the Labor Party did after a distribution of preferences in any seat in Western Australia. If we move through the seats- I will try to be as quick as I can,  Mr President-  we find that in the seat of Canning the Labor Party actually managed to pick up something under 27 per cent of the vote on the first count and, after the distribution of preferences, 32.3 per cent. In Curtin, the Labor 
Party picked up 24 per cent of the vote. In Forrest it picked up 27.7 per cent of the vote. I have already given the figures for Fremantle. In Kalgoorlie the Labor Party picked up 37.3 per cent of the vote before preferences were distributed and 37.6 per cent after preferences were distributed. In Moore the Labor Party picked up 23.83 per cent of the primary vote and 29.61 per cent after the distribution of preferences. In Perth the Labor Party picked up 35.28 per cent. In Stirling it picked up 32 per cent of the vote. In Swan, the other seat that the Labor Party believes it could or should have won, it picked up 39.5 per cent ofthe primary vote and 49 per cent after the distribution of preferences. In the seat of Tangney the Labor Party won 33 per cent of the vote before the distribution of preferences and 34 per cent after the distribution of preferences. 
I have given all those figures because I happen to believe that a fair electoral system is important and I happen to believe that there is no justification for the Labor Party complaining about that result. Had there been proportional representation, as  Senator Chipp  interjected earlier, obviously a different result would have been achieved. But in single member constituencies, with 50. 1 per cent of the vote it is possible to win all the seats. In Western Australia those figures demonstrate quite clearly that in no sense have Labor voters been shepherded together and herded in to stop the Labor Party from winning seats. The Labor Party simply got such an abysmally low vote- a vote which in historic terms is quite remarkable- that it could not win seats. 
We are now moving to a new redistribution brought about by the compulsory requirement of our electoral laws. Western Australia requires an additional seat because of an increase in its population. We have appointed as commissioners people who are distinguished and long serving public servants. Two of the three are people who have served before and the third,  Mr Statham,  against whom  Senator Gietzelt  said he did not cast aspersions and in whose integrity he did not have any lack of confidence, is a man who served his country at length, in both peace and war, and his record is an impressive one. 
If there is no complaint about, or lack of confidence in, the integrity of these men, we are having a debate which is utterly fictitious. Unless the Australian Labor Party picks up support in Western Australia, it is obviously not going to win seats. Whingeing about the electoral redistribution is a very poor substitute for getting on with the job of trying to win back support in Western Australia, a job that is still before the 
Australian Labor Party. I do regret that what I can only describe as many red herrings have been drawn into this debate. We have had lengthy references to  Senator Withers.  I kept a very close watch on matters relating to the royal commission and so on and can recall no suggestion, either in Western Australia or elsewhere, that electoral commissioners had in some way been at fault, or had been poor appointees. I suggest that to draw parallels and analogies and try to drag in the events of the royal commission is utterly unreal. 
I have made a brief statement on behalf of the Minister whom I represent in this place. It is an unremarkable statement and I regret that, the very proper opening remarks of  Senator Gietzelt  notwithstanding, the debate went on to encompass inferences of impropriety. 

<graphic href="081232197905025_44_3_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="081232197905025_44_3_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I wish to speak briefly in the adjournment debate. On 22 April- that is, last Sunday week- after nearly five months of dithering over monetary policy, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  announced a money package, a crucial and urgent component of which was that the Australian Wheat Board would be asked to sell $300m worth of bills on the commercial market and reduce its overdraft with the Reserve Bank of Australia commensurately. On 27 April, that is last Friday, it was reported that the Board had rejected the Government's request to do this. It stated that if the Government wished the Board to take this action it would have to issue a directive under section 1 8 ( 1 ) of the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act. The Board stated its belief that this was a matter of national economic management for which the Government and not the Board should accept responsibility, and therefore the Government should issue a formal directive. Incidentally, that is a view with which I concur. 
On the next day- that is, last Saturday-  Mr Howard  announced that the policy would stand. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who alone has the power to direct the Australian Wheat Board under section 1 8 ( 1 ) of the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act- there is no other Act which gives any other Minister power to direct the Australian Wheat Board- said nothing. If  Mr Howard  had accurately expressed Government policy, the required response was quite simple and quite clear. The Minister for Primary Industry should have immediately issued a directive to the Board to sell $300m worth of bills on the commercial market and repay the Reserve Bank advance. 
The  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board,  Sir Leslie  Price, appeared on the program  National Farm Report  last Monday and reinforced that statement which had come from the Board on the Friday that the Board would require a directive from the Government before it would take any action. Among other things,  Sir Leslie  Price said:  1 don't think the board ever believed that by refusing or not agreeing to comply-- 
That is with the request-  is not an actual refusal because under the act it can't refuse if that is what the Government wishes to do. But it was virtually saying that we can't accept that responsibility on behalf of the growers. 
The words are somewhat confused, but in the last sentence he says that 'we'- that is the Board- 'cannot accept that responsibility on behalf of the growers'. On behalf of the Board, the  Chairman  reiterated the statement made on Friday, 27 April, that the Board would require a formal directive from the Government before it would take any action. 
Yesterday in the House of Representatives,  Mr Howard  was questioned on this matter by the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis).  It was quite clear that he had no idea what it was about, and after an embarrassing silence during which he was briefed by the Minister for Primary Industry, he answered by saying, among other things: 
The honourable member is theoretically correct when he says that, just as with any other bank, once an overdraft limit has been agreed between the bank and the customer it is a breach of that arrangement for the bank unilaterally to withdraw that particular facility. 
The point of  Mr Wallis  's question was whether the Reserve Bank of Australia had any power to direct the Board to reduce its overdraft. I repeat the Treasurer's answer: 
. Once an overdraft limit has been agreed between the bank and the customer it is a breach of that arrangement for the bank unilaterally to withdraw that particular facility. 
Looking past the portuous prose, what the Treasurer was saying there was that the Reserve Bank does not have any power to direct the Wheat Board. 
The Minister for Primary Industry was then asked whether he had issued a directive to the Australian Wheat Board and he replied unequivocally no. In doing so, of course, he was tacitly admitting that he was shirking his duty to implement government policy as stated by the Treasurer last Saturday- that is, that the Australian Wheat Board would be required to comply with Government policy.  Mr Sinclair,  as Minister administering the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act, clearly shirked his duty to direct the Board to comply with government policy in accordance with section 18(1) of that Act. Nobody disputed that this unequivocally gives the Minister power to direct the Wheat Board on any matter concerning its functions and duties. 
Of course,  Mr Sinclair  was waiting for the Wheat Board to cave in, as he knew very well it normally did when subjected to pressure from National Country Party Ministers.  His  judgment, or his gamble, paid off today. It was stated by the Treasurer in the House of Representatives that an agreement had been reached between representatives of the Wheat Board and of the Reserve Bank that the Wheat Board would reduce its advance and sell $300m worth of bills on the commercial market. As I understand it, these negotiations were conducted by the  Chairman  of the Board,  Sir Leslie  Price, and the General Manager,  Mr Williams,  who incidentally on an earlier occasion, to cover up for the Government, lied to the financial Press about the Wheat Board 's funding arrangements, or about the fact that the Wheat Board had suspended payments to growers late in January because it had run out of money. When questioned, the Wheat Board in Melbourne knew nothing about the agreement which the Treasurer told us today had been reached between the Board and the Reserve Bank. This reinforces the prima facie belief that it was an agreement not between the Wheat Board and the Reserve Bank but between the 
Wheat Board Chairman, perhaps the Wheat Board General Manager, and the Reserve Bank. 
Two matters arise from this. I think the treachery to the Wheat Board and the wheat industry by the Wheat Board  Chairman, Sir Leslie  Price, is mostly a matter for the wheat industry itself to take up, although he is appointed to the position of  Chairman  of the Board by this Minister. One can safely assume that he did not get his knighthood or his appointment as  Chairman  of the Board through making life difficult for Country Party politicians. He has complied to make life easier for Country Party Ministers than it would otherwise have been.  His  apparent treachery is mostly a matter to be discussed within the wheat industry. The other point is that for a whole week a critical and urgent component of the Government's monetary package policy was in limbo while  Mr Sinclair  shirked his duty, punting on the  Chairman  of the Wheat Board to sell out the Board in these negotiations with the Reserve Bank. In political terms the Minister's gamble finally paid off. The reason he took that gamble was that- given the extravagant and inflammatory rhetoric by members of his party, members of the Liberal Party and by  Sir Leslie  Price, in 1973 when  Senator Wriedt  issued a directive to the Wheat Board- it would have been highly embarrassing for a Country Party Minister to be seen issuing directives to the Wheat Board or, as  Mr Street  put it in 1973, exposing the iron fist of authoritarian government. With that sort of inflammatory ludicrous statement from his own colleagues on the record, the Minister was politically afraid to issue a directive to the Board. If there was any way he could get out of it, he would adopt that course. He took the gamble and it has paid off for him, at least in political terms. 
What about the credibility of the Government and what about the credibility of Australia? For a whole week while the Minister punted on the Wheat Board Chairman putting his obligation to the Minister before his duties to comply with the decision of the Board of last week, Australia's growing and well deserved international reputation as a fiscal banana republic was further enhanced. It is not greatly appreciated in Australia, but it is known in the money market and it is known internationally that the Government's credibility has taken a severe belting in this area over the last six months. The Minister's action has seriously aggravated the Government's record of dithering, incompetence and indecision. 
The fiscal problem started in November last year when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm 
Fraser) decided that he was the Canute of the fiscal world and could defy market forces and push interest rates down by political fiat. The problem was compounded seriously- this was known as early as January this year- by the question of funding the Wheat Board and the size of the wheat crop. On 22 January or thereabouts, the Wheat Board ran out of money and suspended payment on growers' warrants.  Mr Sinclair  then took the matter to Cabinet and secured a directive to the Reserve Bank that it was to advance the Wheat Board sufficient money to enable the Board to pay out all growers' warrants submitted to it for the season. In the meantime, two or three weeks, no payments were made. As I mentioned earlier, the  Chairman  of the Board, if he was accurately reported, then lied to the financial Press about what had occurred. The Board, indirectly through its grass roots association with the wheat farmers circulated the canard that the computer had broken down. The Board made no public statement to that effect; it preferred to use the rural grapevine to get the false information through. The Board was meekly complying with Government policy- or, rather, it was covering up the situation. 
Prior to a subsequent meeting with the Minister, the Board decided that it would not agree with the Government's request to finance the first tranche of $ 155m through commercial bills. The Minister then met the Wheat Board and skilfully manipulated all but a couple of members so that the Board caved in. It agreed to finance the first $ 144m. I suspect that many of them received a roasting when they returned to their home States and that that was responsible for the Board's subsequent decision- it was announced last Friday- that the Board would not willingly comply with the Government's request on this occasion but would require formal direction from the Minister under Section 18(1) of the Act. I emphasise that that is a direction which the Minister is perfectly entitled to give. I see nothing wrong with the provisions of that section being used and I see nothing wrong with that section being in the Act, so long as action pursuant to that section is taken publicly and properly, as it was by  Senator Wriedt  in 1973. The Board's decision has subsequently been made inoperative by the actions of the  Chairman  in the negotiations with the Reserve Bank today. He has  Mr Sinclair  off the political hook. What really concerns me is the further damage to the credibility, not only of this hillbilly Government, but also of Australia. It has been shown yet again that, when it comes to making a politically hard decision, this Government dithers and procrastinates. It has fiddled around for four months with this monetary issue of the Wheat Board first advance. Its policy was neutralised a week ago by the Wheat Board decision. The action that the Government then quite clearly obliged takenthe action which the Wheat Board expected it to take- was for the Minister to issue a directive. Politically, he has got away with it this time, but in the process he has done a great deal of damage to the credibility of the  Chairman  of the Wheat Board and, of course, to the reputation of Australia both on the domestic financial market and on the international financial market. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1 979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd: (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; (0 Denis M. Gilmourand Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations: (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was Us duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
How many interviews have been broadcast since 10 December 1977 on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio programs (a) AM: and (b) PM, with: (i)  Mr Bruce  Goodluck, MP: (ii)  Mr Michael  Hodgman, MP; (iii) all other members of the Federal Parliamentary Liberal Party, excluding Messrs Goodluck and Hodgman and Ministers of State: (iv) all members of the Federal Parliamentary National Country Party, other than Ministers of State; (v)  Senator K.  S. Wriedt; (vi)  Senator J.  N. Button: (vii)  Mr W.  G. Hayden. MP: (viii)  Mr L.  G. Bowen. MP: and (ix) all members of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party other than Senators Wriedt and Button and Messrs Hayden and Bowen. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd: (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; (0 Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd: (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to stall by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; (f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations: (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd: and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) Did the Member for New England charge hire cars to the Minister's entitlement between 7 September 1973 and June 1 975 on at least 25 occasions. 
Did the Member for New England inform the Minister that, on at least 2 of these occasions the hired car was driven by  Mrs Rosemary  Sinclair; if so, why did the Minister say in his reply to Senate Question No. 910  (Hansard,  24 November 1978, page 2656) that no cars were hired by  Mrs Sinclair  in his name during the period in question. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 1 0 December 1 977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; ( f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd: (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates: (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to accord approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It is prompted by ambiguous comments yesterday from  Mr Sinclair  and  Mr Frearson,  the  Chairman  of the Primary Industry Bank of Australia Limited, regarding future PIBA loans, and also by an answer to a question on notice by  Senator McLaren  stating that $86.2m had been approved for lending from the bank and a statement by  Mr Sinclair  in the House last Thursday that some of the PIBA agent banks had lent too enthusiastically and had used up their share of the apportioned money. Does  Mr Sinclair's  statement mean that no PIBA loans will be available for clients of those banks which have used their share of the apportioned money? On what basis and when were these shares allocated to PIBA's agents? If $86.2m has already been approved for lending, which I understand is the total amount of funds available to PIBA, how can any further borrowers be accommodated? I realise the Minister may not be able to answer these questions now, but can he get me an answer from the Treasurer promptly? 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd: (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd: (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; (f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd: (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh. Parkes and Associates: (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to sta/by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
I ) Has: (a) the General Manager; (b) the Chairman; or (c) any member of the Australian Wheat Board protested to the Minister since I January 1979, seeking to change a plan by the Government, and/or the Treasury and/or the Reserve Bank to finance part of the 1978-79 season first advance from sources other than the Reserve Bank Rural Credits Department; if so, when were any such protests made, and by whom. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Advisory Committee on Endangered Species and Import and Export of Live Fish and what arc their qualifications. 
) What criteria or guidelines were applied in drawing up the 'List of Species and Genera of Aquarium Fishes Proposed for Continued Importation'. 
How frequently is it proposed that this list will be updated. 
By what means will it be updated. 
) What restrictions, if any, will apply to the breeding for commercial or hobby purposes of aquarium fishes not on this list, which are already available in Australia, such as guppies. 
Were submissions sought or received from any organisations or individuals representing the aquarium industry before this list was approved; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: 
1 ) What actions have been taken as a consequence of Resolution 10 ofthe Eighth Meeting ofthe Australian Fishing Industry Council concerning limitations to live aquarium fish imports. 
What actions remain to be taken as a result of this resolution, and what is the proposed time scale for the implementation of these measures. 
What is, or will bc. the legislative authority for each measure. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
I ) Did the Australian Wheat Board suspend first advance payments on growers' warrants between 21 January and 3 February 1979 or thereabouts; if so; 
why has the Board's General Manager denied it; 
did the Board suspend payment because the Reserve Bank's Rural Credits Department refused to increase the Board's overdraft: 
when, and on whose authority, did the Board get extra finance and resume payments on growers' warrants; and 
who in the Government and/or the bureaucracy instructed the Reserve Bank on or about January 20th to stop the Board 's overdraft from exceeding $800-850m. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 4 May 1 979: 
1 ) Will special legislation be required to enable the Government to pay the promised subsidy on the differential in interest rates between that which would have been payable by the Australian Wheat Board to the Reserve Bank and that which the Wheat Board will now have to pay to the trading banks as a proportion of their overdrafts; if not, in what way, and on what authority, will this subsidy be paid. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 April 1979: 
1 ) How much fuel is normally consumed by a Boeing 727 (200 series) in flying non-stop from: 
Perth to Sydney; 
Sydney to Perth 
How much fuel is normally used by the Indian Pacific rail express on a Sydney-Perth journey, and assuming all berths are occupied, how many passengers does a normal train carry. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it correct, as reported last week in the agricultural Press, that the Government plans to place the Bureau of Agricultural Economics under stricter departmental and ministerial control because the Bureau's objective assessment of agricultural issues embarrasses the Government? Can the Minister guarantee that the BAE will not be muzzled or transformed into yet another Government propaganda outlet? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
The statement which is entitled 'Visit to North America and Japan by Minister for Trade and Resources' is mostly about alleged trade negotiations or trade deals concerning beef but also includes a number of other commodities. For the last six months a succession of Ministers has been bragging about the major breakthroughs that they have allegedly achieved in the area of trade negotiations, with particular reference to beef. 
Last October  Mr Sinclair,  the Minister for Primary Industry, when under the hammer in the House of Representatives, suddenly took off to the United States of America, his excuse being the Bill that was then before the United States Congress. He returned to Australia and claimed the credit for  President  Carter having vetoed that Bill. However, it was well known, and  President  Carter had stated it in advance, that the conditions contained in that Bill were unacceptable to his Admininstration  but that some different counter-cyclical legislation would be acceptable to the Administration. That remains the view of the Carter Administration. 
In January the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  returned from the United States after one of his world tours. He started bragging that he had secured access to the American market for Australian beef under more favourable conditions than we had seen before.  Mr Anthony  went off to the United States last March and sent a message from Washington on 30 March which said: 
The beef industry will leave behind it forever the spectre of 1974 when nearly all of the significant markets of the world were shut to Australian beef. 
Those beef producers who heard that statement and remembered  Mr Anthony's  assertion in August 1973 that '. . . the demand for meat will rise so fast we'll be flat out trying to keep up with it' should have been extremely apprehensive when they heard  Mr Anthony  so confidently asserting and bragging that the spectre of nearly all the significant markets of the world being closed to Australian beef had been left behind forever. Those beef producers who were aware of that prophesy he made during the 1977 election campaign about the sugar industry should have been doubly apprehensive. Now, of course, we have this statement which is, in fact, a rehash and an exaggeration of all the previous boasts and bragging by assortments of globetrotting Ministers about what they have allegedly achieved with access, particularly for beef to the United States and the American market. This statement, as with its predecessors, is long on bragging and short on hard fact and detail. It is redolent with glib assurances. For example, at the end of the tortuous and almost incomprehensible paragraph regarding trade-offs with respect to imports into Australia and, in particular, the tobacco industry,  Mr Anthony  said: 
The Government is satisfied that the interests of the Australian tobacco industry have been adequately protected in negotiations. 
If  Senator Maunsell  is particularly interested in this matter as he ought to be, being a Queenslander and living quite close to the Mareeba area, perhaps he can tell us what these safeguards are because  Mr Anthony  has made a number of statements in similar vein that the Government is satisfied the interests of the Australian tobacco industry have been adequately protected in the negotiations. We have not been given any details precisely what that alleged protection is. So, if  Senator Maunsell  is interested, perhaps he can tell us what the Minister for Trade and Resources either does not know or refuses to tell us. I suspect that when this Government comes out with a glib vague statement such as that the Government is satisfied that the interests of the Australian tobacco industry have been adequately protected in negotiations, we can safely assume that there has been no protection at all. 

 - Senator Maunsell might care to tell us about that afterwards. So much for tobacco. If one reads between the lines of the statement and if one reads other statements that have come from the Government, it has been admitted that the threat of counter-cyclical legislation with respect to Australian beef exports to the United States still hangs over the industry. The Minister has somewhat dishonestly presented some figures relating to exports of Australian beef to the United States and Japan in past years and in this year. The Minister says: 
This Government has taken energetic steps in these directions. 
That is, to secure access to beef: 
In our two major beef markets of the United States and Japan we have negotiated access commitments of at least 380,000 tonnes a year- or almost a third higher than our actual exports in 1 974-75. 
Now, exports are not conventionally measured in fiscal years. They are normally measured in calendar years. The quotas are allocated on that basis but because that exercise made the Government's alleged achievement look somewhat more significant than it is in fact  Mr Anthony  in this instance chose to present exports on a fiscal year basis. 
If we look at the exports to the United States and Japan during 1974, we find that 268,000 tonnes were exported and that 380,000 tonnes does almost represent a 50 per cent increase on that figure. In 1 975 however, the total exports to the two countries were 331,000 tonnes, which is only 50,000 tonnes short of the amount which  Mr Anthony  claims to have negotiated. Morever- and most importantly- he goes on to say that this gives us a virtual guarantee of access at that level. A guarantee is either a guarantee or it is not. There is no such thing as a virtual guarantee. That is a contradiction in terms. If one cares to look at the Minister's statement more closely, one finds that all of these conditions are subject to ratification by the United States Congress in accordance with its normal procedures. Of course, one could and ought to add that there is no absolute guarantee or even a virtual guarantee, to use the Minister's selfcontradictory terminology, that at some future time the United States administration may not change its policy on these matters. Certainly, if Japan was economically crippled again to the extent that it was when the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries quadrupled oil prices towards the end of 1973, there is absolutely no guarantee that access to the Japanese market to the extent of 100,000 tonnes a year would be maintained. We know that the Japanese have a somewhat different view of contractual arrangements from that normally held in Western countries. They believe that, if the underlying conditions under which a contractual arrangement was negotiated are significantly changed, the contract ought to be re-negotiated. This, of course, is not the contract. So, there is certainly no guarantee of access at that level to the Japanese market. 
I turn to the other matters covered in the agreement. There is a reference to sugar. That reference is ironical in view of  Mr Anthony's  statements of almost two years ago that the real problems confronting the Australian sugar industry were then behind it. Contrary to the glib assurance which  Mr Anthony  gave towards the end of 1967, the United States has not ratified the International Sugar Agreement.  Mr Anthony  makes no comment whether the United States is going to ratify the International Sugar Agreement. He boasts that the duty on wool will be reduced by 60 per cent over three years. Superficially that sounds significant until we recognise that Australia has exported to the United States over recent years only about 100,000 bales of wool and that the total duty levelled on those quite small exports of wool amounts to approximately $5m. So a 60 per cent reduction of that $5m duty spread over a three year period amounts to $3m. That is the magnitude of the benefit which Australia will gain, not now, but at the end of a three year period. 
Significantly,  Mr Anthony  says nothing about whether the natural gas which  Sir Charles  Court at least hopes to sell off to the United States will be accepted by the United States. Of course, sales of natural gas to the United States or the future development of the North West Shelf gasfields almost certainly depends on whether sales can be made to the United States.  Mr Anthony  has nothing to tell us about that. This is a piece of political grandstanding. It is the fourth piece of political grandstanding that we have seen from various Ministers of this Government over the last seven months. Incidentally, that phrase 'political grandstanding' is not mine. It comes from  Mr Jack  Ware who is the  president  of the West Australian Meat Exporters Association and a senior executive of Metro Meats, one of Australia's major meat exporting firms. He said, among other things: 
Although, superficially, it would appear tradition US suppliers would benefit from the establishment of a base import quota, there were three disturbing aspects which made it Tar less attractive than  Mr Anthony  had tried to present. 
He listed them. The first is: 
There is no guaranteed Australian share of the global quota despite a so-called assurance its traditional percentage would be maintained. 
The second is: 
The level of the guaranteed global quota was much larger than the present level of imports. Australia's share, if based on tradition, would be only 75 per cent of present exports to the US ofabout 370,000 tonnes. 

 Mr Ware is saying there; and his comment is correct; that what we have been guaranteed is 75 per cent of the present level of exports to the United States. It is also worth noting that what we have virtually been guaranteed, to use the Minister's phrase, is a level of imports of Australian beef significantly lower than the levels actually imported from Australia by the United States during the slump years of 1975, 1976 and 1977.  Mr Ware  continued in his third point to say: 
The agreement would set the stage for the introduction of a counter-cyclical import system in the United States, with the United States pointing to Australia's agreement on a base figure as justification. This undoubtedly would be the base figure in any counter-cyclical agreement. 
One wonders why the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is not ducking off to the United States again to do a bit of grandstanding, to save the Australian beef industry from the threat of counter-cyclical legislation, as he alleges he did last October. If the Opposition in the House of Representatives started talking about the Finnane report, again we would find him ducking off to the United States.  Mr Ware  continued: 
Considering the Australian Government last year saw fit to lobby hard against the United States Congress' passing of a counter-cyclical Bill this would seem inconsistent with previous policy . . . 
He finalised his comments with this well-chosen phrase: 
At any rate the Australian meat industry can do without political grandstanding. 
That is what we have in this statement. He summed it up succinctly. It is a piece of political grandstanding, the fourth that we have had on this issue from an assortment of Ministers. We do not have now just a tourist Prime Minister, we have almost a tourist government. It is a wonder that the Government does not start holding Cabinet meetings overseas. There are four Ministers junketeering around the globe at this very moment, led of course by that leading junketeer and tourist, the Prime Minister. All we have to show as a result of four junketeering visits to the United States by senior Ministers of this Government is this document which has been placed before us and which is a piece of political grandstanding. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Chaney)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 February 1 979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of her personal staff met representatives from: 
Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; 
b ) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; 
Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; 
d ) Dunkley International Ltd; 
Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; 
Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; 
International Public Relations; 
Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; 
Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and 
Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 20 February 1 979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; (f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 20 February 1 979: 
What procedures exist within the Attorney-General's Department to record approaches made to staff by Lobbyists. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether he is aware of a study by a Queensland Department of Primary Industries economist which demonstrated that, due to changes in primary producer averaging provisions in the 1 977 Budget, use of income equalisation deposits could increase farmers' tax liabilities. If the Minister is aware of it, why does he continue to exhort farmers to put money into income equalisation deposits? 
I think  Senator Collard  has just convincingly demonstrated the justification for a motion such as the one before us, which condemns the Government for its failure to clarify in technical and monetary terms precisely what it is proposing. There were several ironies in  Senator Collard  's speech, but perhaps the greatest irony of all was that his remarks directly contradict the statement made by the leader of his party- the National Country Party of Australia- in June of last year at a seminar in the Northern Territory. On that occasion the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  said: 
Many people, particularly in remote parts of Australia have had their hopes built up that a communications satellite could greatly improve their telephone, radio and television services . . . the needs of people in remote areas could perhaps be better met by extending and improving ground facilities and people would be unwise to place too much hope in them as a means of solving their communications problems in the immediate future. 
By 'in them' he meant 'in a satellite'. If the case for the need for the Government to clarify its intentions has not been established already by previous speakers, it certainly has been clarified by the contradiction between  Senator Collard  's remarks and the statement made by his party leader less than one year ago. Even if we overlook the contradiction between the National Country Party rank and file, as represented by  Senator .Collard,  and its leadership, there was a host of internal contradictions in the honourable senator's speech. He said that it is important that we do not rush into it- that is, the satellite- until technology is complete. I find it rather difficult- in fact quite impossible- to reconcile that exhortation with his apparent advocacy that we have to get a satellite up in the air immediately, because even if the technology is to be complete it certainly is not complete now and a number of technical matters quite crucial to this proposal have not been specified by the Government. 
He said- and this is the most important internal contradiction- that it is no good putting up this satellite if it is for television services only. He said that there is no point in putting up a satellite unless it is one which can provide a full range of communications for people in outback Australia. Evidently he does not know that the proposal, insofar as it has been enunciated by the Government, is to put up a satellite which in the first generation will not provide telephone facilities. So by  Senator Collard  's own standards of judgment he would have to be opposed to the proposition of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  insofar as he has spelt out anything at all. 
I want to make it perfectly clear that neither I,  Senator Ryan, Senator Button  nor anyone else in the Labor Party, as far as I am aware, is opposed to the installation of a satellite per se. Certainly we are greatly concerned about the communications and other disadvantages suffered by people living in the remote parts of Australia. One practical manifestation of that concern, of course, was the isolated children's education grant introduced by the last Federal Labor Government after Liberal-National Country Party governments had had 23 years in which to initiate such a move to overcome the financial disadvantages educationally of people living in the country. Following 23 years in which Liberal-National Country Party governments did nothing, within less than a year of the Labor Government's being elected it provided for those people complete financial compensation in relation to education. As Bill Hayden remarked at Orange the weekend before last, a demonstration ofthe Labor Party's long standing concern for the disadvantaged people in remote Australia and for people generally in remote Australia is the fact that the Labor Party was gestated in these areas of outback Australia as much as it was in metropolitan Sydney. Of course, as I come from Western Australia, I have a particular and personal appreciation of the problems in communications and in other areas of people living in the outback. 
One of the things that concerns us about this proposition is that the Government and, in particular, the Minister have misrepresented the proposition which has been put forward as something which will solve the communications problems of remote Australia. If that were the objective of the Government- if the satellite were aimed in fact at overcoming the communications problems of outback Australia- the limited message transmitting capacity which the satellite will have, especially the first generation satellite, would be reserved for providing telephone communications for outback Australia, which at present is inadequately served, and perhaps also for providing television restricted only to those areas. In other words, there would be no provision for networking arrangements or for instant transmission of television between the major capital cities and the other capital cities and regional centres. But under this proposition the priority goes not to outback Australia but to providing instant television transmission between the major centres of population. The proposition is directed not just towards that objective of providing instant television transmission between the major centres of population. The satellite having provided that service, there will be little capacity, if any, for picking up any of the demand for other communications services. That applies at least for the first generation satellite. The Government has done a very successful public relations job and has presented the Minister's proposal as a panacea for all the communications problems of outback Australia when in fact it will do nothing- it may even exacerbate the communications problems of outback Australia- at least until the second generation satellite is in use, for which we are looking at some period in the 1990s. 
One of the difficulties I find in speaking to this matter- and I daresay that this applies to a number of other speakers- is that even at this stage it is a highly technical matter and that rational decisions on what technology is most suitable always entail an element of prophecy, expectations, predictions or speculation about what technical improvements may be made. in the future. The incorporation into the current decision of this obvious uncertainty about future technological change, improvement and development increases the degree of difficulty we face when we have to make decisions at this point in time. I heard the Minister speak last month at Cobar, I have heard  Mr Packer  speak at Orange and, of course, I have read a good deal of material on the question. 
The two most disturbing aspects of the Minister's attitude which have struck me are, firstly, the degree to which, consciously or otherwise, he has misrepresented the first generation satellite proposition as the panacea for all the communications problems of the outback and, secondly, the evangelical fervour with which he espouses his cause- a fervour which seems to have developed to the point where either he has lost touch with the technical and economic realities of the situation or he conveniently overlooks them. He has said that a satellite can be obtained for $100m, which I understand to be a fairly accurate figure for the cost of launching a limited capacity satellite. But the expenditure does not stop when a satellite has been launched and fixed above the continent. There is no point in putting up a satellite unless we can provide the further investment in ground reception facilities which are required to use it. That looks like entailing another $200m or, some would say, another $300m. 
To put up a satellite and then to decide that we could not afford the additional investment in the ground support facilities would be tantamount to building another Ord River dam, which a previous government of the same political colour as the present Government built about 12 years ago. I heard directly at Cobar a month ago the Minister suggest that 190cm dish ground receiver stations- and he implied that they would be for telephone as well as television communications- could be procured by the mid-1980s for $1,000 to $1,200 each. Allegedly these things are being produced in Canada. It is highly significant that when  Mr Packer's  engineer, Les Free, was questioned on this matter and asked to explain it- because it was news to me- he declined to support what the Minister had said. Even  Mr Packer's  engineer does not believe, by inference, that the Minister's euphoric expectation of future costs of a ground receiver station is justified. I suggest that that is highly significant. 
I note also that other members of the Liberal Party and, I suppose, other members of the National Country Party have been misrepresenting, in the way that  Senator Collard  was doing in the Senate this afternoon, the potential for providing to people in the outback the service outlined in this proposition. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie,  Mr Cotter,  has led his constituents in the Nullarbor, 100 or 200 miles east of Kalgoorlie, to believe that they will be able to get television reception from that first generation satellite. The truth is that they will not be able to get reception from the satellite except after making a prohibitive investment in a ground station. The first generation satellite will provide no telephone communications. It is important to stress that. Perhaps technically it could provide television reception, if about $30,000 or $40,000 were invested in a ground station for the receipt of the message. 
With a second generation satellite in the 1990s, perhaps the situation could be quite different. It might be technically and economically feasible at that time for a full range of communication facilities to be provided via satellite at a cost which is acceptable. But that leaves a gap of about 15 years. What will happen with outback communications during that 15-year period? If the objective of the Government is to improve communications to the outback, it could do one of two things. Either it could direct a satellite towards that area, which it has not done, or it could invest the capital which otherwise would have gone into the satellite in extensions to the existing terrestrial service. In the medium termthat is, within 1 5 years- there is no doubt that the communication facilities likely to be provided in outback Australia will be superior without a satellite when compared with what the Government is proposing. In the longer term, beyond 15 years, that situation might well be reversed. But I think it is grossly unfair, not to say immoral, for the Government to present this proposition, insofar as it has defined it at all, to people in the outback of Australia as a panacea for their communication problems. 
There are genuine problems in the proposal. The forecast cost of ground receiver stations in the mid-1980s, which on present technology appears to be around $30,000 to $40,000, as the Packer organisation has argued, might well be reduced to $10,000 because of technical improvements. That is an uncertainty which no government can completely remove. If we are committed to a satellite, in the interim period what do we do with places such as Wyndham, where the telephone line reminds me of the old farm line we used to have when I was a boy. It had sagging wires in between rotting posts. Any further investment in the terrestrial system would be, in a sense, money wasted if at some time in the future the satellite were to take over telephone communications. 
Our concern, apart from many nebulous and euphoric attitudes on crucial issues, expressed particularly by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications on cost and on technical feasibility, is that the Government will commit itself to that proposition- as the Minister seems to bewithout being fully aware of its economics or its technical possibilities and that that proposition will be sold to people, as it has been sold by  Senator Collard, Mr Cotter  in Kalgoorlie and by the Minister, in the false expectation that it will provide adequate communication facilities for people in the outback. However, at least in the medium term, the consequences of adopting the proposition put forward by the Minister for people in the outback will be minus. 
-I move: 
Page 5, Clause 7, leave out the clause, insert the following clause: 7 Section 18 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after sub-section (7) the following sub-section: (7a) (a) The requirements of this section relate to a company if the sum of the amounts received by that company or, where that company is included in a relevant group of companies, by the companies in that group, during the period of 12 months that ended on the immediately preceding thirtieth day of June as payments for the supply of goods, or the supply of services, or both, exceeded $30,000,000; 
A reference in paragraph (a) to the thirtieth day of June shall, in the case of a company that has, or a relevant group of companies that have, adopted accounting periods ending on a day other than the thirtieth day of June, be read as a reference to that other day; 
For the purposes of this section, if 2 or more companies are related to each other- 
they constitute a relevant group of companies; and 
each of them is included in any other relevant group of companies in which any of them is included; and 
A reference in this section to the supply of goods or services, in relation to a company that is included in a relevant group of companies, does not include a reference to the supply of goods or services by that company to another company that is included in the same group. '. '. 
The purpose of the amendment is to reinsert, albeit in a different section of the Prices Justification Act, the mandatory requirement for firms with turnovers above $30m to notify the Prices Justification Tribunal of intended price increases. I do not intend to speak at great length on this amendment. I think it would be fair to say that in the view of the Opposition this is the most important change which the Government proposes to make to the Prices Justification Act. It relates to the part of the Act which the Opposition believes it is most important to keep. The Bill seeks to repeal sections 4 and 5 of the principal Act. The Opposition seeks to reinsert the matters covered by the sections being deleted by amending section 18 of the Principal Act. I think that the reasons for the amendment were adequately outlined by  Senator Tate, Senator Colston  and me during the second reading debate. 
I move: 
Page 5, after clause 7 insert the following new clause: "7a. Section 18a of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after sub-section (2 ) the following sub-section: (2a) The Tribunal may allow interim price increases in a manner outlined in sub-section (2) when a company can show that such an increase is essential to maintain a level of profitability sufficient to enable the company to maintain an adequate level of investment and employment. '. ". 
The purpose of this amendment is to permit an interim price increase to be granted where there is a clear case that the applicant for a price increase requires the increase to remain in business and the facts of the matter are sufficiently complex that the Prices Justification Tribunal would require considerable time in order to determine what was a reasonable price increase. So the Opposition seeks to make provision for an interim increase to be granted pending the final decision of the Tribunal. 

Page 6, clause 9, leave out the clause, insert the following new clause: 
Section 19 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: 
9. ( 1 ) Subject to this section, the Tribunal shall, before proceeding with an inquiry into a matter specified by the Minister in a notice under sub-section 17(1)- 
publish by advertisement in the Gazette, and also publish in each State and in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory by advertisement in a newspaper circulating in that State or Territory, a notice stating that the Tribunal has been asked to hold the inquiry and inviting interested persons to make submissions in writing to the Tribunal, within 7 days of the day on which the notice is published in the Gazette, on the question whether such an inquiry should be held; 
not later than 7 days after the publication of the notice under paragraph (a), serve notice in writing on the company or each of the companies concerned- 
stating that the Tribunal has been asked to hold the inquiry; 
inviting the company to make submissions in writing to the Tribunal, not later than 7 days from the day on which the notice is served on the company, on the question whether such an inquiry should be held; and 
notifying the company that it may within that period of 7 days request a conference with the Tribunal on the question whether such an inquiry should be held; and 
when requested, within the period referred to in sub-paragraph (b) (iii), by a company concerned to hold a conference on the question whether such an inquiry should be held, afford to the company an opportunity of conferring with the Tribunal on that question at a place determined by the Tribunal and on a day determined by the Tribunal, being a day not earlier than the eighth day, and not later than the twenty-first day, after the service of the notice on the company. 
After paragraphs ( 1 ) (a), (b) and (c) have been complied with, the Minister shall, as soon as practicable, inform the Tribunal whether he approved the holding of the inquiry. 
If the Minister informs the Tribunal that he does not approve the holding of the inquiry, the Tribunal shall forthwith serve notice on the company or companies concerned that it will not proceed with the inquiry.'.". 
I shall explain the purpose of the amendment. The Government has already decided that in relation to any inquiry initiated by the action of the 
Prices Justification Tribunal there will be a preliminary inquiry by the Tribunal. This will not be an in depth inquiry but a preliminary examination of the matters to decide whether a full public inquiry will be held. But the Government has not provided that the same preliminary inquiry procedure will apply to matters initiated by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs as distinct from the Tribunal. It is the view of the Opposition that in the interests of consistency and for the reasons stated by the Government with respect to Tribunal initiated inquiries- that is, that perhaps the matter can be a satisfactorily resolved without going through the expensive and time consuming process of a full public inquiry- similar provisions to those that the Government has provided in relation to Tribunal initiated inquiries should apply to ministerial initiated inquiries. 
The Opposition will be moving an amendment to the second reading of the Prices Justification Bill as well as a number of amendments at the Committee stage. The purpose of the Bill is to water down even further the powers of the Prices Justification Tribunal. The Bill is not presented in those terms by the Government but that is quite clearly the Bill 's underlying purpose. We all remember that in November 1975,  Mr Fraser  promised, as part of his election manifesto, that the PJT would be abolished. Although he has not overtly done that, in practice he has honoured that promise to a far more significant degree than he has honoured just about any other promise that he has made. In 1976 the Government introduced amendments to the Prices Justification Act which significantly reduced the Tribunal's powers. On 18 October last year the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  made a statement inviting from business, unions and other interested parties submissions on the operation of the Tribunal. The Bill, which was finally introduced in the House of Representatives in March of this year, purports to be the product of those submissions. 
One major change contained in the Bill is the repeal of those sections of the Act, as it now stands, which impose the mandatory requirement that companies with an annual turnover in excess of $30m or the subsidiaries of those companies with a turnover in excess of $5m notify the PJT of impending price increases. The Bill also removes the price freeze provision of the Act under which prices, once notified to the Tribunal by the companies within those categories, were frozen until the Tribunal's inquiry had been completed. The responsibility to monitor price changes has now been put back almost entirely, with one minor exception which I will mention shortly, on to the PJT. Under the provision of the amending Bill, the Minister, at his discretion, may instruct the PJT to initiate price inquiries. 
One of the Opposition's major reservations about the Bill is that, given the way in which the law is administered by the Government, the holding of a public inquiry, either at the initiation of the Minister or the PJT itself, is conditional upon obtaining ministerial approval for it under what will become new section 19AA (4), assuming that this Bill is passed. I expect that it will be passed in spite of the Opposition's objections and the arguments that it will be putting forward. The companies into which a public inquiry has been held will be required to notify the Tribunal for a mandatory period of 12 months of any further price increases- a period which may be extended at the discretion of the Minister. To use the euphemism of the Minister in his second reading speech, 'the Bill modifies the confidentiality provisions' of the existing legislation, so that companies may claim that evidence or documents which are being tendered to the Tribunal in evidence in public inquiries are confidential to the company and so that the contents of those documents shall not be disclosed unless the Tribunal decides that it is in the public interest. I have outlined the major changes which this Bill seeks to make to the existing Act. 
Taking the broader view, the Government might think that it has done a very clever thing in surreptitiously emasculating the PJT in the way that it did with the 1976 amendment and again with the amendment which is before the Senate tonight. The Government may think that it has managed to get rid of the Prices Justification Tribunal, to which it has ideologically rooted objection, without overtly incurring the wrath of any section of the community by openly abolishing it. I suggest that if that is the Government's attitude, it is one which the Government might well reconsider. I will go into that matter shortly. 
If we look at a couple of other factors concerned with the Government's administration of the Prices Justification Tribunal over the last three and a half years, we see that there is a consistent administrative pattern, as well as a legislative campaign, aimed at reducing the powers and effectiveness of the Tribunal. For example, the staff, which numbered 138 when this Government came into power, has been progressively whittled down to a current level of 99. We know, of course, that  Mr Fraser  at least purported to be committed to massive cutbacks in the public sector, particularly in the Commonwealth Public Service. There has been much more rhetoric than action in that area. But I draw attention to the very significant decrease in the staff of the tribunal- a decrease in excess of 25 per cent compared with a minuscule one per cent or 2 per cent decrease for the Commonwealth Public Service as a whole. It is quite clear that the Tribunal, like the Industries Assistance Commission, has been singled out by the Government for particularly vindicative treatment, because the Government has an ideological objection to its existence and because it does not want too much public scrutiny of matters pertaining to business. 
The second aspect of the administration of this Act which I wish to mention now is concerned with the Tribunal member,  Mr Long,  who was not reappointed by the Government when his term expired. I suggest that it is not coincidental that  Mr Long  was associated with both the Colgate-Palmolive Pty Ltd and the Elder Smith Goldsborough Mort Ltd public inquiries- the latter mentioned being the more recent. He was associated with the running fight between the Prices Justification Tribunal and Elder Smith Goldsborough Mort over whether that company would comply with the Tribunal's findings. I was about to add 'and the instructions of the Tribunal' but one cannot really say that because I understand that the Tribunal did not have the legal power to implement its finding that, if it was necessary to recover the costs for the physical handling of wool, the company should charge at cost for the purely handling service and reduce its commission charges. Ultimately Elder Smith did comply with the Tribunal's recommendation but the issue dragged on for, I think, five or six months. One does not have to be very suspicious to see some connection between  Mr Long's  direct association with both those inquiries, the political influence which a firm such as Elder Smith has with this Government and the fact that  Mr Long  was not reappointed. 
I move back to the wisdom or otherwise of the Government's general attitude towards the Prices Justification Tribunal and what appears to be a government belief that it will do something advantageous to itself if it emasculates the Tribunal. Many people may have doubts about the effectiveness of a body such as this, especially when it has no direct legal power to enforce its findings, in controlling price increases. But very clearly it does have a symbolic value. I guess that even the Prime Minister recognised this when he did not overtly implement his 1975 election promise to abolish the Tribunal. The view is held deeply within trade unions, and probably among the public generally, that it is unfair that applications for wage increases should be subject to public scrutiny, to public debate and to strenuous opposition from this Government on almost every occasion that they come before the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. However, pricing decisions of noncompetitive public firms- that is firms which have sufficient market power to significantly set their own prices- are not subject to the same rigorous public scrutiny of their applications and the justification for them. There is no doubt that that view is widely held within the trade union movement and probably within the community generally. 
Therefore it follows inescapably that an essential part of any package deal on wages policy, aimed at getting on top of inflation, should not only incorporate some reasonable assurancethat is something which is seen to be a reasonable assurance to the unions- but also that applications for price increases by companies with a great deal of market power should be treated in the same way as are applications for wage increases by the unions. That is not the situation in Australia today. The law is and is seen to be discriminatory. It is in favour of companies. The unions must justify their claims in a public forum but companies need not. For example, as far as I am aware, there is no provision in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act under which unions can claim that submissions made by them are confidential and are not to be released. The examination of union applications for wage increases is much more rigorous and much more public. For example, if this amending Bill is passed the companies are not even obliged to notify the Tribunal of impending price increases. The Tribunal  from its limited resources and  staff, which have been progressively whittled down over the last 3Vi years by this Government, will be obliged to monitor on its own initiative what is happening in the pricing area. While this Government is in power I think we can forget about the provision which permits the Minister to direct the Tribunal to study the pricing policies of particular firms. Perhaps one possible exception is when the Minister or this Government may use that provision against particular companies which it wants to discipline for some other reason. Is the second reading amendment available yet? It was to have been circulated. If it has not been circulated I will leave it for  Senator Tate  to move afterwards. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 March 1979: 
1 ) What efforts has the Minister made to renegotiate air freight rates between Australia and the Middle East with Middle East Governments to. enable scheduled airline operators, including Qantas to set rates competitive with nonscheduled operators in the meat export trade. 
) What was the outcome of any such efforts. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd, (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd, (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd, (d) Dunkley International Ltd, (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd, (f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associations Pty Ltd, (g) International Public Relations, (h) Macintosh Parkes and Associates, (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd, and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 April 1979: 
1 ) When were the conditions applying to superannuation rights of Qantas employees,  referred  to in the answer to Senate Question No. 1172 (see  Hansard,  27 March 1979, page 1010), introduced. 
Does the Qantas administration usually rely on the memory of its staff, as implied by Part (2) ofthe answer, or does it also keep written records. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) What was the total cost of press advertisements calling for tenders for the disposal of the 1973 Mercedes 450 SEI sedan formerly Commonwealth Car C* 1 . 
What was the amount ofthe successful tender. 
3 ) What was the amount of the highest tender. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd: (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd: ( f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd: (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd: (f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations: (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Last Friday in Brisbane, the Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia rejected the Australian Wheat Board's submission that the wheat marketing case was settled and committed  Ubergang's  case for hearing in the full High Court. In the Budget session, the Government will introduce the new wheat stabilisation Bills, which need to be passed by 30 September. In the event of the Court's emasculating the Bills either before or after they are passed, what contingency plans does the Government have for wheat stabilisation? Will the Government be seeking a referendum to amend the Constitution? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
-I rise to speak on the debate on the Appropriation Bills. I move: 
At end of motion, add ' but the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should bc condemned because of: 
Its failure to adopt an economic strategy designed to reduce unemployment; 
Its failure to fulfil its promises to reduce inflation and interest rates, and notes with alarm that both are now increasing: 
Its determination to place the blame for its economic failures on wage earners, trade unions and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission; and 
Its perverted and wasteful expenditure priorities as exemplified by its allocation of substantial funds in this Bill to indulge the travelling comfort of the Ministry whilst increasing the deprivation of the under-privileged'. 
As can be deduced from that text the amendment is concerned largely with the bucketful of guarantees on various matters which this Government gave at the time when it first assumed power late in 1975. The Government guaranteed that it would reduce interest rates. They are now rising. The Government guaranteed that it would reduce unemployment and find jobs for all. Since that guarantee was given, unemployment has doubled and it is rising. The Government said it would reduce or eliminate deficits. Since then, in its three Budgets, the Government has piled up on all time record aggregate deficit of $9.3 billion. For the second year in succession there is to be a massive overshoot of the deficit on the Government's estimates, and we are heading for a deficit of $3.3 billion to $3.5 billion once again, despite all the cosmetic adjustments and trick accountancy which the Government has employed to try to reduce that deficit. It has presided over the highest three-year aggregate deficit we have ever seen, and there is no sign of it coming down and every indication of it going up. 
The Government said it would reduce inflation. For a while it did, but nobody, not even the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  now doubts that it is rising again and will rise to 10 per cent over the next 12 months. 
A new promise. His new promise is that the present rate of inflation is likely to be maintained. Everyone else believes that it will be 10 per cent, which is precisely double what he promised it would be by this time. 
The Government also claimed at the time it was elected that it was reprehensible to borrow money overseas. Since then, we have seen it borrow no less than $4 billion, that fascinating figure, which this Government has not talked about borrowing but has actually borrowed. Our overseas debts incurred under this Government now exceed our total overseas cash gold reserves and drawing rights. So one could say, in a sense, that this nation is now internationally bankrupt, or about to go into international receivership, if one wants to adopt the simplistic approach to these matters that  Mr Fraser  adopted a few years ago. 
Above all, we were promised integrity in government. Since that time, eight Ministers either have been sacked or have resigned, and there are two in the pipeline. We have a Prime Minister that nobody, but nobody, believes. The Government said that it would reduce taxes. Personal income tax is now the highest proportion of the gross national product that it has ever been, war time years excepted. Average weekly earners will be paying $10 a week more in taxation in July of this year than they paid last year. 
The Government purports to be a strong government, and it is a strong government when it is kicking defenceless people around. How much strength has it displayed when it has had to deal with the mavericks in Queensland, who refuse to accept the Federal Government's authority- not only authority, but indeed obligation- pursuant to the 1967 referendum outcome to be responsible for the Aborigines. Every time that this so-called strong man who leads this Government is confronted with opponents who have the capacity to fight back, he backs down before them. 
The Prime Minister said that the Government would end 'the vast unlegislated increases in taxation that accrued in periods of inflation and non-indexed tax scales'. He has now repudiated that promise as well, both to the business community and to the personal taxpayers. The Government has even contradicted itself on a number of occasions. It came in as a Friedmanite government. Since then, that concept has been stood on its head. The basic tenet of Fried.manism is that the rate of growth of the money supply is the critical determinant of inflation, the rate of inflation will be the rate of growth of the money supply discounted for real increases in the gross domestic product. When confronted a couple of months ago with the fact that the money supply had got out of control because of the Government's assorted mismanagement, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  made the excuse that the money supply growth had been greater than was anticipated, and that the reason for it was that the rate of inflation was higher than was anticipated. So we now have the spectacle of this Government, which was committed to Fried.manism, standing Friedmanism on its head. Friedmanism says that the rate of inflation is determined by the rate of growth of the money supply. This Government, which purports to be a Friedmanite government, says that the required rate of growth of money supply is determined by the rate of inflation. 
The major reason why the Government lost control of the money supply towards the end of last year and in this year is that the Prime Minister was stupidly committed to a reduction in interest rates. No matter what the market forces said, he believed that he could be the Canute of finance and fix interest rates by political pronouncements. Indeed, in November, when all the market pressures were operating in the opposite direction, he attempted to force interest rates down by reducing the long term bond rate. The Government has been forced to go back on that action. Because of that and the Government's weakness- I mention its three months' procrastination before it took any action whatever over the effect of the very much larger than expected wheat crop on the growth rate of the money supply- the money supply has got out of control. Now, very belatedly, the Government is trying to take some steps to get it back under control. 
We have been told for the last 12 months how damaging it would be to the economy, and particularly to mineral exploration and development, if a resources tax was applied. The Government promised to abolish the coal export levy. It has gone back on that promise. What do we now have in lieu of a resources tax? The Government has realised some of the folly in its 1978 Budget decision on crude oil pricing. Given that it has recognised that folly, it also belatedly realises that more and more windfall gains will accrue to the Australian producers on established oil fields. So the Government has decided to increase the crude oil levy to $5 a barrel. It is not a resources tax. It does produce some revenue, which of course a resources tax is aimed to do, but it is a highly undesirable form of taxation, even at the same level of revenue. The reason it is undesirable is that the $5 levy must be met. That to a company is a production cost which must be met before a barrel of oil is extracted. Therefore, while that levy is retained, marginal oil producers will be obliged to leave in the ground oil which can quite economically be extracted. All quantum taxes or mineral royalties are economically unsound. The Government ought to move afar from exacerbating its errors by increasing the size of that quantum levy; it ought to drop the whole lot and adopt a resources tax, as we have been telling it to do for the past 12 months. 
The mini-Budget introduced last Thursday will only exacerbate the Government's problems. The changes which the Government is making to health insurance and oil pricing and the revenue tariff on previously duty free imports will add at least two per cent to the consumer price index in the next 12 months. Compounding that, food prices increased at a rate of three per cent in the month of April alone. Manufacturers' materials increased in cost by a staggering 32 per cent between March 1978 and March 1979. That is a record increase in the price of materials used by manufacturers. There is no doubt that the inflation rate will go up over the next 12 months. After three years of Fraserism and the enormous social costs associated with it, the one thing which the Government could claim as a plus on its record has now turned into a minus. 
The agricultural sector, for which the National Country Party purports to speak, was hit by between $90m and $120m in last Thursday night's mini-Budget. The reason for that imprecision between $90m and $120m is that we are not sure what future oil price rises are in the pipeline. If the 1 July Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries increase is around 10 per cent, as is expected, the direct cost to the agricultural sector will be in the vicinity of $ 120m, not counting the reduction in export incentives, not counting the revenue tariff on previously duty free imports and not counting, of course, the very big increase in personal taxation. 
When one looks back over events of 1 973, as I did this morning, it is rather ironic to note the statements which were made then by assorted members of the Country Party in particular, but also by such Liberal Party luminaries as the Prime Minister and the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  concerning the measures which were taken in the 1973-74 Budget when some long-standing rorts which had been exploited mainly by people outside agriculture were terminated. I might add, their termination was well overdue. At that stage those people were saying how terrible it was to hit the agricultural sector at a time when it had just emerged from a long period of recession, and so on. We do not hear those people saying that now. Now that the agricultural sector has emerged from a recession which was equally as severe as that which preceded the 1973-74 Budget, we do not hear those same voices stridently proclaiming how foolish at best and how evil at worst is- the Government's action of hitting the agricultural sector today, as they were saying it was a few years ago. As a former Western Australian Country Party senator known personally to me was noted for saying, circumstances alter cases. That, of course, was a euphemism for hypocrisy. 
In the face of all that, still no effective legislation against tax dodgers is forecast. The scapegoats for all the Government's blunders and all its malevolence are the unemployed. The unemployed, who are the victims of the Government's policy, are blamed for the effects of those policies. That is another example of the inversion of truth regarding Friedmanism which the Treasurer put over a couple of months ago. It is obvious from the Treasurer's statement and from statements made by assorted Ministers in recent months that an attempt is being made to revive the dole bludger scapegoat syndrome. 
Six weeks ago we had the spectacle of the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Mr Lynch,  the  Deputy  Leader of t he Liberal Party of Australia, having the audacity to say that he thought that probably the unemployment benefit was too high, that it provided a disincentive to people to seek work and that was the reason for the level of unemployment being so high. Apart from the patent absurdity of there being over 400,000 registered applicants for employment and some 20,000 or fewer registered vacancies for employees- the number of applications for jobs exceeds the number of jobs available by a ratio of more than 20 : 1- this raises a moral question. We have a senior Minister in this Government who draws a tax free personal overnight allowance of $62, $ 1 1 more than the weekly income of an unemployed person, saying that the unemployed are being overcompensated financially- It would be bad enough for any Minister who was partly responsible for the level of unemployment to be saying that, but when the Minister who is saying that is a land racketeer and a tax dodger to boot, I suggest it is reprehensible. 
I was referring to the Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party. 
I will withdraw the remark,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  noting as I do so that the test of acceptability in this place is not truth but the Standing Orders. In marked contrast to its parsimony to the unfortunate, particularly the unemployed, we have the Government's indulgence of itself and its friends. This is the only Western democracy in the whole world in which there are no longer any taxes of any type on capital. The Prime Minister's in-laws, the Beggs, were fully compensated for their bushfire losses by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria. They received, apparently illegally, a $50,000 loan at a 4 per cent interest rate. Ultimately, money for that loan is supplied by people who pay an interest rate of 1 1 per cent on their home loans. The Prime Minister's wife had the audacity to complain about the public exposure of the scandal. If  Mrs Fraser  and her relatives want to evade public scrutiny of their business affairs, I suggest that they should stop being loan bludgers. 
The Prime Minister's self-indulgence at public expense is breathtaking: $20m for two Boeing 707s, not to mention the very expensive engine modifications which they will require, to expedite his globe trotting and to pander to his vanity and his delusion that he is a statesman of international stature. Then we have the new High Court of Australia building, the cost of which has been expanded by some $7m at the personal whim of the Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, who would have received also, pursuant to the position he occupies, a country seat had the Press and the Labor Party not exposed to the public what was going on a couple of weeks ago. 
We also have the Government's extraordinary generosity to the  Sir Robert  Menzies Memorial Trust, which can only be described as a Liberal Party political stunt financed by the taxpayers at a ratio of more than 3: 1.  Sir Robert  Menzies was not an elder statesman, but a highly partisan political figure. As late as October 1975 he went public in a very partisan way on the most controversial political issue of this decade. We are told that the Trust was established for such nebulous purposes as to study human performance. To such ill defined goals the Government has committed itself to a minimum contribution of $2m and an unknown maximum contribution. 
Yes, but it might be more useful if it were a study of the latter, if it does the sort of thing which it is likely to do. If we look over the list of members of the National Committee of the Trust we find names such as  Sir David  Derham,  Sir William  Vines,  Sir Garfield  Barwick,  Sir Henry  Bolte and  Sir James  McNeill. It looks like a  Who's Who of  the Melbourne Club and the Victorian Liberal Party, or the directors list of Associated Securities Ltd. The taxpayers will foot the bill for nearly all of that Liberal Party stunt, which is rationalised as being a study of human performance. Not only has the Government guaranteed to match at a ratio of 1 : 1 contributions from the public- some of those contributions will come from State governments and will be matched again by the Federal Government, but also genuine personal contributions, as distinct from State government contributions, will also be tax deductible. So the Government ultimately will be paying something like 75 per cent to 80 per cent of it. I suppose there is some, albeit, ironic consistency in Menzies 's successors conscripting money to perpetuate the things that he stood for. 
I note with some regret that  Sir Zelman  Cowen has allowed himself to be used in the promotion of this stunt. An article in the Melbourne  Herald  of 1 5 May quotes  Sir Zelman  as saying: 
Under the leadership of  Sir Robert  Menzies this nation grew in many ways- in world reputation, in prosperity, in maturity and in educational standards. 
To the extent that these things happened at all it would be more historically accurate to say that they happened in spite of Menzies rather than because of him. In fact he presided over the highest inflation we have ever seen. He presided over one of the lowest economic growth rates in the Western world in spite of a high level of capital investment. He was a boot licker, first of the British and later of the Americans. He was an imperialist lackey who sailed up the Nile in 1956 to give Nasser the cane and got the cane instead. He wrung his hands when South Africa's racist repressive regime was kicked out of the Commonwealth in 1962. 
Above all,  Sir Robert  Menzies should be remembered as the Prime Minister who lied to Parliament when he committed Australian troops to Vietnam. The 492 Australians who ultimately died as a result of Menzies' parliamentary lies certainly did not, as the GovernorGeneral put it, benefit from his long and dedicated service to the nation. But perhaps we should not expect anything more accurate from one who was a mealy-mouthed apologist for the second greatest crime of this century at the time it was actually being committed. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
Has: (a) the General Manager; (b) the Chairman; or(c) any member of the Australian Wheat Board protested to the Treasurer since I January 1979, seeking to change a plan by the Government, and/or the Treasury and/or the Reserve Bank, to finance part of the 1978-79 season first advance from sources other than the Reserve Bank Rural Credits Department; if so, when were any such protests made, and by whom. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) Did the Treasurer earlier this year, either alone or in conjunction with other Ministers and after conferring with the Secretary of the Treasury and/or other senior Treasury officials and/or the Governor and/or other senior officials of the Reserve Bank, agree to prevent the Reserve Bank's Rural Credits Department advancing sufficient funds to the Australian Wheat Board lo enable the Board to meet its obligation to pay the first advance on all 1978-79 season wheat received from wheatgrowers. 
Was it intended that the Wheat Board borrow the rest of the money required to meet its obligation to wheatgrowers from the trading banks. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) Were first advance payments to Australian wheatgrowers delayed earlier this year because the Reserve Bank's Rural Credits Department refused to advance to the Australian Wheat Board sufficient funds to meet its obligation to pay the first advance on all 1978-79 season wheat received from growers. 
On whose authority or instructions did the Reserve Bank refuse further advances to the Wheat Board. 
Did the Reserve Bank later make available to the Australian Wheat Board sufficient funds to honour its obligation to pay the first advance on all wheat received from wheatgrowers. 
On whose authority or instructions did the Reserve Bank reverse its earlier policy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
What was the Income Equalisation Deposit Trust Account balance at the end of each month in 1979 up to the most recent available month. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, follows a question 1 asked last week in answer to which the Minister asked me to supply a copy of the analysis which demonstrated that the use of income equalisation deposits could often increase the amount of tax paid by farmers. Last Friday I supplied his office with the references to those articles which are in the Parliamentary Library. I ask again: Is the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  aware of this study? If so, why does he continue to exhort farmers to put money into IEDs? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I wish to speak briefly to the motion. The statement was read in the House of Representatives last night and was an adjunct to the statement which had been read previously by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and which has been tabled by  Senator Carrick  this afternoon. I do not think that there is very much one can say about the statements in terms of factual content, because there is no factual content. There are a number of glib assurances that major or significant concessions have been achieved in various areas, but we are not told what those concessions are. We are assured that Australia will have greater access to the European Economic Community market for a number of agricultural products in particular. We are told that quotas will be increased for meat, for example, but we are not told by how much quotas will be increased. The statements are completely nonspecific. It is quite clear that the only reason that these statements have been brought down by the Prime Minister and by the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  is to attempt to justify their globetrotting over the last two years. 
Two years ago, when the Prime Minister was on his mid-summer world junket in Europe, he treated the world to a demonstration of what was called by the EEC Minister 'wild buffalo diplomacy'. He rushed over to Europe recklessly issuing to assorted European nations threats as to what would happen if they did not open up their markets to Australian agricultural products. Finally he realised that there was no point in threatening any European nation on an individual basis because the members of the EEC subscribe to a common agricultural policy which is, indeed, the linchpin of the organisation. At least we have progressed to the point where the Government, and even the Prime Minister, realised that to negotiate in a meaningful way with the Community with respect to modifications of its common agricultural policy one has to do so en bloc. 
Since then the Prime Minister has had another couple of stop-offs in Europe while on his regular globe-trotting missions. Our tourist Prime Minister, rather than make a meaningful contribution to trade negotiations with Europe, issued a few more statements designed for domestic consumption.  His  special representative,  Mr Garland,  spends about half the year trotting around the world. 
The non-specific, nebulous statements that were read in the House of Representatives last night, and tabled here today, are a pathetic attempt by both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Special Trade Representations to justify their globe-trotting activities. If they ever produce anything specific, that means anything, perhaps we can have a meaningful discussion, but that is not possible at this stage. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Government Leader explaining why he misled the Senate this morning. 
1 seek leave to move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Government Leader explaining why he misled the Senate this morning. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
What procedures exist within the Minister's Department to record approaches made to stall by lobbyists. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: . 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd: (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd: (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd: (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; (f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations: (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd: and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
1 ) What actions has the Minister or his Department taken as a consequence of Resolution 10 of the Australian Fisheries Council concerning limitations to live aquarium fish imports. 
When will any such measures be implemented. 
On what legislative authority will they be implemented. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister and the Treasurer. Earlier today, in reply to a question from  Senator Button,  the Minister said that comparisons of the size of the deficit in different time periods were not particularly relevant unless they were related to a percentage of gross domestic product. I am able to tell  Senator Carrick  that during the three fiscal years under the Labor Government the deficit averaged 3.3 per cent of GDP and, with the increase in this year's deficit announced by the Treasurer yesterday, the average deficit for the three fiscal years under the Fraser Government will be 3.5 per cent of GDP. I ask: By its own standards has this Government failed and will it apply its own yardstick and call an election? 
The proposition being put ' up by the Government is that this place is a sheltered workshop. We have a government of the handicapped. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  does not remember and  Mr Newman  cannot hear. We have a government of amnesiacs and the deaf. That is the proposition which the Senate is being asked to accept this afternoon. At 2.45 this afternoon the fourth ranking Minister in this Government- I might add a very grave looking fourth ranking Ministercame into the Senate, stood in the alcove and beckoned  Senator Carrick. Senator Carrick  went out and had consultations with him for several minutes.  Senator Carrick  is asking us to believe that  Mr Sinclair  came into the Senate to tell him that  Mr Newman's  statement would not be coming into the House until 3.15 p.m. Since when has the fourth ranking Minister in this Government been a messenger boy to carry such simple messages as that? Since when has the fourth ranking Minister in this Government run around Parliament House conveying simple messages to other Ministers. It is my belief that at that meeting which took place in the alcove between  Senator Carrick  and  Mr Sinclair  the Government's alibi on this matter was concocted.  Senator Webster  is certainly not off the hook. 
Let us look at what is on the record.  Senator Button  has been through the question that he asked. He asked  Senator Webster  an identical question to that which was asked of  Mr Newman  in the House of Representatives. Contradictory answers came forward. The reason we are now asked to believe these contradictory answers was that  Mr Newman  did not hear the question. The proof of today's  Hansard  shows that when  Senator Button  pointed out to  Senator Carrick  that an identical question had been asked in the House of Representatives and a contradictory answer had been given  Senator Webster  interjected with these words: 
I raise a point of order,  Mr President.  I have been in touch with my office and have been informed that  Mr Newman  has advised that he answered yes to two questions, which they were not (he questions which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate is attempting to infer. 
That has now been refined into:  'Mr Newman  did not hear the question'. Perhaps  Mr Newman  is as deaf as the Prime Minister last August was amnesiac. But what about  Mr Newman's  staff? Are they also deaf? I would have expected that the staff of every Minister in this place would listen to the questions asked and the answers that their Minister gives during Question Time. Yet  Mr Newman  was subsequently able to advise  Senator Webster's  office, so  Senator Webster  tells us, that the question which was put to  Mr Newman  in the House of Representatives was not the same question as the one which was put by Sentor Button in the Senate. So we are not only being asked to believe that  Mr Newman  is deaf, and as far as I know there is no previous evidence of that, but also, implicitly, we are being asked to believe that  Mr Newman's  staff do not listen to the questions that he is asked in the House of Representatives or the answers that are given to them, or that before  Mr Newman  answers a request- and I do not expect  Senator Webster's  office would have spoken to  Mr Newman  himself;  Senator Webster's  office would have spoken to  Mr Newman's  office-  Mr Newman's  staff do not talk to  Mr Newman,  that they do not talk to each other, that they do not listen or that they are also deaf. I suggest, with the greatest respect, that that chain of improbabilities is just more than any reasonable person can swallow. The Government has concocted an alibi to get  Senator Webster  off the hook. I at least- and I am sure this goes for the great majority of members of the Opposition- am not satisfied with the Government's alibi. 
-I wish to raise two matters in this first reading debate. I am raising them somewhat later than I had expected. The first matter is the inability or refusal of  Senator Webster  as the Minister representing  Mr Sinclair  in this place to comment on a study of the ultimate taxation consequences of income equalisation deposits. The second matter is a promise, which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  gave in India earlier this year, to export 20 merino ewes. On Wednesday of last week I asked  Senator Webster,  as the Minister representing  Mr Sinclair  a question.  ( Quorum formed). 
On Wednesday last week, I asked  Senator Webster,  as the Minister representing  Mr Sinclair,  whether  Mr Sinclair  was aware of a study by Queensland Department of Primary Industries economists which showed that the use of income equalisation deposits by farmers could increase the total tax liability over a period. Not surprisingly,  Senator Webster  was not able to say whether  Mr Sinclair  was aware of the study. He expressed surprise and doubts about its accuracy, but asked to be supplied with the articles in question. On Friday of last week, Sentator Webster's office was supplied with the references to the articles in question, which are available from the Parliamentary Library. 
Yesterday I asked again whether  Senator Webster  knew whether  Mr Sinclair  was aware of the study and, if so, why  Mr Sinclair  continued to exhort farmers to deposit money in income equalisation deposits.  Senator Webster  yesterday dodged the issue by saying that he did not know what  Mr Sinclair  knows, which may well be true, but after seven days- and it was a full week since the matter was first raised- he should have made it his business to find out whether  Mr Sinclair  was aware of this study and to tell me and the Senate what  Mr Sinclair's  views on it were and whether he concurred with its findings. So at best both  Senator Webster  and  Mr Sinclair  are negligent. I think that it is more likely that they are afraid to let the cat out of the bag. It is a fact that income equalisation deposits for the first four months of this year are significantly lower than they were for the same four months of the previous year and that there is no sign of the balance in the trust account increasing over that period in spite of the very high farm incomes. 
There is a very close link between the two and I will incorporate the study afterwards, subject to agreement. The reason for this anomaly is linked very closely to the changes to tax averaging which were made hastily in a panic move by the Government in 1 977. There is also a link between income equalisation deposits and the Primary Industry Bank of Australia because $30m has been provided already by the IED trust account at an interest rate of 5 per cent to the PBA. The PBA is broke. It went broke a month ago. I suggest that the Government has ambitions of bailing the PBA out of bankruptcy by transferring to it more money at this 5 percent interest rate from the income equalisation deposits. But it cannot do that unless the amount deposited in the IEDs increases. The study to which I refer and which was conducted by the Queensland DPI shows that a medium-income farmer who makes a deposit in a high income year and withdraws in a low income year, which is the normal way in which IEDs would be used, actually pays more tax. At this stage I seek to incorporate in  Hansard  one of the examples which was shown in that study which demonstrates the point that I have made. It is the analysis by Moorehouse and Thompson of the Economic Services Branch of the Queensland Department of Primary Industry in March 1979. It was supplied to the Government about half an hour ago. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows 

Tax saving in year of deposit. 
Example la. 
A primary producer has a taxable income of $20,000, less than $5,000 of which comes from non-primary production sources. His average income is $15,000. How much tax will he save by depositing $4,000 in IED 's? 
Tax payable on $20,000 at average rate for $15,000 = $4,961 (See 'farm note' The Averaging System ( 1 ) for calculating tax payable ). 
Taxable income after deposit is $20,000-$4,000 = $ 1 6,000. 

<graphic href="081232197905316_60_0.jpg"></graphic>

Tax payable on $16,000 at average rate for $14,200 = $3,89 1. 
Thus the investment of $4,000 inIED's would bring a saving in tax of $4,96 1 -$3,89 1 = $ 1 , 070. 
Extra tax in year of withdrawal. 
The taxpayer will withdraw theIED's in a subsequent year. What happens to the tax payable? Two situations are illustrated one when there is a low taxable income and the other when a loss has been made. 
Example1 b ( Low income ). 
Assume that in the year of withdrawal taxable income is $11,000 of which less than $5,000 is non-farm income, and average income is $ 1 6,000. 
As taxable income is less than average, tax is calculated at normal rates. 
Tax on $ 1 1, 000 = $2,38 1. 
Taxable income after the IED is withdrawn is $11, 000 + $4,000 = $15,000. 

<graphic href="081232197905316_61_0.jpg"></graphic>

Note. This calculation applies provided the deposit and withdrawal are more than live years apart. If the withdrawal is made within five years the withdrawal and deposit balance each other and there is no change in the average income. In the example taxable income is less than average income in both cases so there is no effect on tax payable. However it does highlight the need for careful analysis. 
Again taxable income is less than average and tax is calculated without reference averaging. 
Taxon$l5.000=$3,721. 
Thus the withdrawal of the $4,000 deposit would increase tax by $3.72 1 -$2.38 1 = $ 1,340. 
In this situation the extra tax of $1,340 exceeds the initial saving in tax of $ 1 , 070 by $270. That is, the use ofIED's has resulted in $270 more tax being paid. 

<graphic href="081232197905316_61_1.jpg"></graphic>

Not all the ramifications are considered in the analysis which I have just incorporated, but it demonstrates the inherent contradiction between the income equalisation deposit principle and the primary producers' averaging system after the Government's illconsidered adjustments to that averaging system in 1977. It demonstrates that the IEDs, which  Mr Sinclair  has been trying to flog all around Australia for months with all the zeal of an encyclopedia salesman, have no tax advantages for the great majority of farmers and a distinct possibility of tax penalties for some. An encyclopedia salesman who was attempting to sell merchandise whilst withholding such important information as the Government not only withholds but also refuses to acknowledge would soon be in trouble with the Trade Practices Commission. It is time that these matters were brought out in a more public way. It is time that the responsible Minister of this Government were flushed out and forced to come clean on their attitude to the study and whether they concur with its findings. 
The second matter concerns a promise given by the Prime Minister in India last January during his mid-summer tourist jaunt. When in India he received a request, both in writing and orally, from Raymond Woollen Mills Ltd of Bombay to guarantee the delivery of 20 merino ewes- not rams. This was subsequently reported in some of the agricultural weeklies- and I have spoken directly to some of the journalists who were present- that that was stated quite clearly. The Prime Minister's response to that written and oral request was to guarantee that the sheep sought- 20 merino ewes- would be delivered, saying as he did so that no unions would be allowed to interfere with exports as the Government would not tolerate it. Be that as it may, the export of ewes is forbidden by the Government's own policy. So compelling apparently was  Mr Fraser's  penchant for grandstanding when abroad that either he contradicted his own Government's policy or he did not know what the Government's policy was and is. 
On 27 February, I asked  Senator Carrick,  without notice, whether Government policy had been changed or whether  Mr Fraser  had contradicted it.  Senator Carrick  told me that he would refer the query to the Prime Minister for an answer. On Tuesday I received that answer and it is in Tuesday's  Hansard  on page 2299. The answer repeats the Government's policy and gives the background to the Government's adopting it. The section in that policy which is relevant in this instance is: 
The prohibition to be continued on the export of merino ewes ova and semen- 

 Mr Fraser, speaking through  Senator Carrick,  went on to say: 
My remarks at Raymond Woollen Mills Ltd. India referred specifically to impediments to the export of breeding sheep attributable to trade union policy which may deter purchases by export customers. They were not intended to define the type of merino breeding sheep permitted for export by the Government: 
It was not necessary for the Prime Minister to define that because the sex of the sheep for which a guarantee of availability was sought was specified quite clearly in the request that the 
Prime Minister received. The request to the Prime Minister was for a guarantee that 20 merino ewes would be made available to this firm. The Prime Minister guaranteed that they would be available. It was not necessary for him to specify the age, sex, colour or breed of the sheep, because the sex of the sheep was specified in the request which the Prime Minister not only acceded to but also guaranteed. In saying that those remarks were not intended to define the type of merinos, he is trying to dodge the issue.  His  answer did not explicitly specify the sex, but the question did and he answered yes to the question. The request was for ewes and the Prime Minister guaranteed delivery. I repeat: Either his penchant for grandstanding when abroad is so great that he does not care what he says, or he did not know what Government policy was and is, and he is trying to evade the issue now. Or perhaps one could say that his promises in India have the same value as his promises in Australia. In that regard he appears to be incorrigible, but before he again makes a fool of himself grandstanding abroad, I suggest that he ought to find out what the policy of his own Government is. 
-The purpose of the six Bills before the House essentially is to continue the 5 per cent levy on gross wool sales for the Market Support Fund and to establish the trust fund and collection arrangements that are necessary for that Market Support Fund which is expected to stand at something over $200m by the end of this season. It continues the floor price arrangements initiated in 1974 when  Senator Wriedt  was Minister for Agriculture at a time when the wool market was seriously depressed. Indeed, it was so seriously depressed that it was necessary for. the government of the day to appropriate some $350m for the maintenance of the reserve price which had been set in the 1974-75 season at 250c per kilogram for 2 1 micron clean wool. In the depressed period the stockpile peaked just under 2 million bales. The wool market at the moment is much more favourable. The stockpile has fallen to a figure in the vicinity of 400,000. It changes on a daily basis, so one cannot be precise about it. But it is in the region of 400,000. The present market price for most grades, and for the indicator, is some 20 per cent above the present floor price. This situation, however, should be seen in perspective. 
I want to say something about what I see as being undue and unwarranted, if not irresponsible, optimism by some people as to the true nature of the wool market and the immediate prospects. This optimism, I think, can be partly attributed to the Government and its desire to promote the idea that there is a rural-led economic recovery in the pipeline. Whilst it is certainly correct that the very large increase in farm incomes this year will be a major, if not the major, component of such economic growth that does take place in this financial year, this increase in incomes has been caused almost entirely by three factors. The first is the very large wheat crop. That is not likely to recur next year or perhaps for another decade. The second is the big increase in beef prices over the last 12 months, which probably will be sustained for three or four years. The third, a causative factor which is not often mentioned, is the continuing devaluation of the Australian dollar, which has increased, in terms of Australian dollars, the price received for agricultural exports. This is particularly relevant to the wool market. 
A recently published graph and supporting figures in terms of user nation currency and the currency of our wool customers shows that the price of wool over the last 12 to 18 months has not increased but has fallen marginally, so that the present relatively high price of wool in terms of the Australian dollar is a function of the continuing devaluation of the Australian dollar rather than the true state of the wool market and the demand for wool. I noted that the sort of caution which I am now urging was also urged by  Mr Richardson  of the Australian Wool Corporation in a letter to the editor published in the  Australian  on 29 May 1979. 
One could say, justifiably, that there is little evidence that the Government really believes its own propaganda. If the Government really believed that the wool market and the prospects for the future were as sound as the euphoric statements of some of its spokesmen from time to time would suggest, it would be less coy about giving some assurance that the reserve price will be substantially increased in the coming season. Far from giving any assurance that a substantial increase in the reserve price is likely, which would be the logical thing for a government which believed its own propaganda to do, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has been pointing out, to the woolgrower groups in a calculated way, I believe, that it is not really necessary to increase the firm floor price because the pot holding operation, the variable daytoday market indicator, can be moved up independently of the floor price, which of course is true. But if the Government really believed that the market was going to be as buoyant in the next 12 months as it sometimes suggests, it would not flinch from a substantial increase in the floor price, and the indications are that it has no intention of doing that. 
While on that point, I would like to make my own view quite clear. There is a widespread belief among wool growers that the floor price for wool ought to be tied to some cost index. One such index is what is called the cost of producing wool. I do not know how that could be determined; in fact I am not sure that I know what it is. On the other hand, a floor price having been established, that price could be automatically indexed to the consumer price index. That idea has a good deal of popular appeal, because it seems to be just. But it is not a sensible basis on which to determine the level of the floor price. The level of the floor price, by any rational assessment of the matter, has to be tied to what is expected to be the long term demand for wool, and not to any movement in so-called production costs or any other index of prices. 
The popularity of the idea, of course, guarantees that it receives tacit support, and in some instances overt support, from a number of politicians representing rural electorates who can see some electoral advantage for themselves in going along with what is popular instead of what is true. As I have said before, the actions of such people are not in the long term interests of agriculture, and these people are not friends of the farmers. They put their own short term political welfare before the long term welfare of the people for whom they purport to speak. 
There has been considerable debate over the last few months about the benefits or otherwise of the floor price scheme, which has operated for almost five years. In particular, a study whose results were released by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics at the AGRO '79 conference in Perth in March, whilst concluding quite unequivocally- and I do not think there will be any dispute about this-that the operation of the floor price has stabilised wool prices, cast serious doubts upon its effect on the total income of the wool industry over the whole five-year period. The study suggested that because of the operation of the floor price, the total industry income is some $46m less than it would otherwise have been. It is highly technical work. I freely confess that it is too technical econometrically for me to understand, but people who do understand these matters tell me that the methodology employed by the BAE in coming to that conclusion was at least open to question. 
The critical factor, and one that cannot ever be fixed with precision in determining whether the operations of a buffer stock scheme, such as the floor price is, either increase long term industry revenue or decrease long term industry revenue, is the elasticity of demand, both in times of boom and in times of slump. I had previously believed that the elasticities in the wool market were favourable for profitable operation of buffer schemes. Of course that assumption is the very one upon which the BAE study has cast doubts. In fact, the BAE has argued that the elasticities are opposite to those which would favour profitable operation of such a scheme. So there is considerable doubt, and I think there always will be because of the very nature of the problem, in assessing the final consequences for industry income of a scheme of this nature. 
It is argued, independently of the critical price elasticity of demand, both in boom and slump, that the price stability to wool users, which the operation of a buffer stock scheme provides, in fact increases the total demand for wool above that which would otherwise exist. It increases the whole demand for wool. It lifts the whole demand curve for wool higher than it would be in the absence of such a price stabilisation operation. Again 1 have at least one reservation about uncritical acceptance of that proposition, because if price stability were as important to users and potential users as that argument assumes, one might ask why the users do not take advantage of futures trading, which 'can give the individual producer effective insurance, at any time for a period of 18 months into the future, against wild fluctuations in prices. 
The belief that price stability permanently lifts the demand curve for wool is one of the major reasons cited for acquisition or for total control of the clip by a single marketing authority. Another reason cited for what is somewhat loosely called acquisition but which in contemporary terms could be described more accurately as the wool marketing proposals put forward by the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation in 1973, or the slight variation of them put forward more recently, is that the sort of single seller authority proposed could affect very significant economies in the handling and processing of wool. It is argued that there is scope for such economies and that they could be achieved more effectively if a centralised marketing authority were established. In support of the Wool Corporation's proposition and of other acquisition schemes, it is argued also that the operations of private wool buyers, who are currently buying close to 20 per cent of the total clip, undermine the effectiveness ofthe Corporation's reserve price, which applies only with the option system. 
To a limited extent that hypothesis has been tested by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in a study of prices received in New South Wales. The Bureau was unable to confirm that on average people who sold wool privately on the farm were receiving less than market prices for those sales. There were considerable variations around that average for individual clips, as there probably would be at auction sales, but there was no evidence that overall less than market value was being received for those private sales on the farms. In support of the private selling of wool I think it can reasonably be argued that, insofar as progress has been made and more efficiency has been effected in terms of cost, methods of handling and processing wool through the auction system and the wool selling brokers associated with it, the impetus for that increased efficiency probably has come from the very real competition provided in the past by the private buyers. So it seems to me that the case on this issue is not really proven one way or the other. 
I repeat a statement I have made before on this matter. At this stage it is only a personal view. If it could be demonstrated that the majority of Australian wool growers want such a marketing proposal, given the fact that the overwhelming majority- well over 90 per cent of the clip either in raw form or in semi-processed form- is exported from Australia and therefore the local market is relatively insignificant, it is my belief that a government ought to provide the legislative framework within which such a marketing scheme can be established. Coming back to deal directly with the purpose of this Bill, I feel that after the amount held by the market support fund reaches an amount of, say, $300m- the figure is arbitrary, it might be $350m- it ought to rotate; that is, the growers who contributed in the first year of the fund, 1974-75, ought to receive their contributions back. Of course, there would be some difficulties in that. Some of the people concerned would have died in the meantime. But revolving funds are operated for other purposes associated with agriculture, so there is no administrative reason for it not being done in that area. 
The question which that prompts is this: If there is not a revolving fund, what will happen to the money? If the fund does not revolve in that way it will continue to accumulate indefinitely. At the end of 25 year, probably even at the end of 20 years, a billion dollars would be sitting in the fund. At the end of 40 years two billion dollars would be sitting in the fund. I think it is essential that the fund revolve in that way. The legislation currently before the Senate does not provide for the additional three per cent levy on wool sales to finance the research and promotional activities of the Australian Wool Corporation and the International Wool Secretariat. I noted with some satisfaction a couple of months ago that the Minister for Primary Industry had authorised an inquiry by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics into the effectiveness of the IWS's promotion program. Again, that is something which is very difficult to assess with any precision. Equally difficult to assess with any precision is the value or otherwise of a buffer stock scheme. But the record of some of the people associated with the International Wool Secretariat certainly leads one to doubt their competence. 
I take honourable senators back to 1963 when  Sir William  Gunn made efforts to sell to the wool industry the IWS's then greatly expanded promotional program. The evidence which he used in selling that to the wool growers, successful though his campaign was, was quite specious. He displayed graphs showing that wool's percentage share of the textile market had fallen from, I think, 28 per cent in the early 1950s to 14 per cent in 1963. The gullible wool growers who were shown that graph were supposed to believe that unless something was done about the situation wool would disappear through the base line of the graph into a black hole in history. All that that proved was that wool production was increasing at a slower rate than total textile consumption. It was a totally specious argument, albeit a successful one. It does the wool industry establishment no credit whatsoever that it promoted such a specious argument, which it has never repudiated. Incidentally, since that time, wool 's percentage share of the total textile market has declined to 7 per cent. There is no reason to be concerned about that. 
Associated with that sort of specious argument was the proposition, again originating from the International Wool Secretariat, that increased supplies of wool would push wool prices up. That, of course, was pure economic quackery. Again, it does the wool industry establishment no credit that it not only failed to repudiate that nonsense at the time it was first propounded but also has not repudiated it even now. Indeed, that fallacy is still the basis of the present Government's merino ram export policy. As recently as only last month, the Minister for Primary Industry, when he was holding discussions with the Australian Council of Trade Unions on the matter, was reported as having said that unless Australian merinos were made available to wool producers and potential wool producers in other countries, wool was in danger of becoming a minor fibre, which would have horrendous implications for the wool industry and so on. That is pure nonsense. There is no economic danger in wool becoming a minor fibre. All that matters is the price that is received for it. 

 Mr Sinclair was still mouthing a variation, a modification, of the increased supply equals higher price fallacy, lt is very disappointing to find that he still docs that. It is even more disappointing to find that the agricultural Press, which ought to be a bit more alert in these matters, still either does not realise that that Minister is mouthing nonsense or does not feel inclined to expose what he is mouthing as nonsense. Last year  Senator Young  mouthed the same sort of nonsense. We probably will hear some of it as this debate continues. In conclusion, for those various reasons, I welcome the study on the IWS promotion program by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics authorised by the Minister. 
In view of the late hour I shall not speak to these Bills for as long as I had intended originally to speak. I would like to make a protest again. It has been futile in the past but hope springs eternal that the Government will discontinue its long-standing practice of either rushing through all the agricultural Bills in the last two days of a session or bringing them on for debate at this time of night. The Bills which have just been passed were first introduced in the House of Representatives on 22 March. They sat around on the Notice Paper for two months and nothing was done about them. Now at the end of the session we have this deluge of agricultural Bills, some of which were introduced into the House of Representatives only last Monday. It is no wonder that the country is in a mess because the Government cannot even manage efficiently the business of the Parliament. 
The purpose of the Bills is to take up the interest rate differential- the higher interest rate- which the Australian Wheat Board, through having been leaned on to transfer some $445m of its previous overdraft to the Reserve Bank, will be obliged to pay to the private sector via the sale of bills through the trading banks. The reason that the Government has leaned on the Board to do this is that the wheat crop has been much larger than was anticipated at the time the first advance was announced in November. The Opposition is not opposing the Bills on the grounds that it is not the Wheat Board's fault that the Government has lost control ofthe money supply and has shown itself incompetent in managing the money supply and the economy. The reason for that coercion ofthe Board to take the action which finally produced these Bills is the Government's attempt to try to regain control of the money supply, which the latest figures clearly show it has not achieved. It lost control of the money supply because the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  persisted with that stubborn belief that interest rates could bc set by political pronouncement instead of by market forces, a belief to which he still was committed as recently as last November. However, we are justifiably highly critical of the Government for its tardiness in taking action in this area. 
The Bureau of Agricultural Economics  Trends  publication of December last year forecast a wheat harvest of 17.5 million tonnes, which was less than 1.5 million tonnes away from the final result. That was a fairly accurate forecast made in December by the Bureau. Yet it was not until 3 May, almost five months later, that the Government finally had a firm policy to deal with the monetary situation which had been caused by the very large wheat harvest. I state for the benefit of those who may read this record that the Opposition's arguments on this matter have been put most comprehensively by my colleague, John Kerin, in the House of Representatives on 24 May. commencing on page 2408  of Ilansard  and also by  Mr Brown, Mr Fitzpatrick  and  Mr Wallis.  1 commend to the serious student of the subject a study ofthe comments of those Labor members in the House of Representatives. 
In no area has the incompetence of this Government been more apparent than in its failure, its procrastination and its cowardice in dealing with this question. As early as March it earned this rebuke from the heavyweight economic newsletter  Syntec,  under the headings 'mistakes' and 'poor management': 
The Government must have known several months ago that the new wheat crop had been vastly under-estimated. 
It did. In fact, the BAE had told it that, three months before. I quote further: 
It  proceeeded  with a first advance payment to growers of $75 per tonne, thus creating some $500 million in unscheduled new money. Once this was done, the Government should have acted quickly to counter the new money creation. The Wheat Board should have been instructed months ago to draw commerical bills for part of the first advance money. If it becomes apparent abroad that the Fraser Government is much less competent in internal monetary management than its boasts in the United States would imply, then there is danger that run-out on private sector capital account will offset the significant improvement now occurring on trade account. 

 Syntec continued: 
Government backing and filling on this wheat credit problem has allowed it now to descend to the more economically illiterate levels of rural politics. 
I am not sure that that last comment is completely justified, because it could not descend very much further into economic illiteracy than it had descended by the time it reached the Cabinet. From that stage it was surrounded by economic illiteracy. 1 have quoted what  Syntec  said in March. It was, of course, two months later before the Government actually got control of the situation. Fiscal control regressed in the meantime to the level that one would expect to find in a banana republic. Even on 3 May, when it was finally announced that the second tranche of $300m would be transferred to the private sector from the Reserve Bank of Australia that was done in a reprehensible way. 
On 27 April the Wheat Board had announced that it would not comply with the Government's request, adding that the Minister would have to instruct it under section 18 ( 1 ) of the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act to take that action. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  should have taken that action immediately. Instead, he dithered for a week. He punted on his hunch that his influence with the Wheat Board  Chairman, Sir Leslie  Price, would enable the Government to achieve its objectives without having to issue a formal directive, which would have been politically damaging to the Australian National Country Party. The welfare of his party was put before the welfare of the country. Indeed,  Mr Sinclair's  hunch proved to be correct.  Sir Leslie  Price was involved in discussions with members of the Reserve Bank staff and, I understand, telephoned various members of the Board, in that way securing their grudging agreement to go along with the proposition. No formal meeting of the Board was held to change the decision that it had made at a properly constituted meeting only one week earlier. The wheat growers of Australia ought to be aware of that fact and that the loyalty of the  Chairman  of the 
Wheat Board to the National Country Party, or his personal loyalty to the Minister, was seen by him to be more important than his obligations to the Board's decision, arrived at during a properly constituted meeting of the Board and subsequently breached without any such meeting subsequently being held. 
As a result of the dilatoriness and negligence of the Government on this issue, payments on growers' warrants were suspended either from 13 January to 2 February, or from 23 January to 2 February. The reason for the uncertainty in those dates is that, if we believe the answer that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  gave to a Question on Notice yesterday, it was 1 3 January. If we believe the answer to a Question on Notice which the Minister for Primary Industry had given earlier, it was 23 January. I do not know which of those dates is correct. I think it is 23 January, but it just demonstrates again that one does not get consistent answers from the Ministers of this Government. The Treasurer said that it was 13 January. The Minister for Primary Industry said that it was 23 January. I observe in passing that that sort of sloth has regrettably become a feature of the answers which the Treasurer gives in this place to Questions on Notice. It is the second time this year on which he has given me incorrect answers to Questions on Notice. 
The fact that payment had been suspended was denied on or about the end of February by the general manager of the Wheat Board to a financial journalist and at least one agricultural journalist of my acquaintance. The general manager lied to the financial and agricultural Press about what had happened. That he had lied was, of course, finally revealed by the answers that the Ministers were ultimately forced to give in the Parliament. As for the Ministers themselves, they declined for a very long period to make any comment in reply to Questions on Notice. To gouge the truth out of them we had to put questions on the Notice Paper and leave them there for a few weeks before the Government would come clean. 
I wish to mention one or two other matters. At the beginning of March of this year I visited Shepparton and made three statements. One was that the Wheat Board had suspended payments in January because of the run-out of money. Another was that the Primary Industry Bank of Australia was going to run out of money at about the end of April and a third was that  Mr Anthony  had been primarily responsible for the imposition of a resources tax. They were published in the  Shepparton News  and a few days later, on 16 
March, drew a stinging rebuke from the honourable member for Murray,  Mr Lloyd,  who said that: 
The visit - 
That is my visit-  must be counter-productivefor the Labor Party following the statements  Senator Walsh  had made on the Primary Industry Bank, fuel prices and wheat. In addition to giving misleading and incorrect information,  Senator Walsh  had acted as a prophet of doom - 
The final comment by  Mr Lloyd,  as reported in the newspaper was: 

 Mr Lloyd suggested the Labor Party must do its homework better than was obviously done by  Senator Walsh  if it really wanted to make progress in country areas. 
I mention that because all of the things I said on that occasion have since happened. The Government has since admitted that the Wheat Board suspended payments to growers.  Mr Anthony,  in response to a question a couple of days later in the House of Representatives on his role in regard to the resources tax said, 'I have been strongly opposed to a resources tax, as has the Government'. There is an old Country Party tactic of which the few Liberal Party members still present in the chamber ought to be made aware. It is a long standing tactic of the National Country Party in its electorates, when confronted by decisions of coalition governments which are unpopular in the electorate, to blame the Liberals. It blames the Liberals for everything that is unpopular and says that, of course, Country Party members opposed it but they could not do anything with the Liberal Party. That is exactly what  Mr Lloyd  did in this case. 1 quote from the  Shepparton News: 

 Senator Walsh also accused  Mr Anthony  of being primarily responsible for dropping the Planned Resources Tax and. because of this, for the introduction of the crude oil levy. 
The following is a direct quote from  Mr Lloyd: 
This is the opposite of the truth.  Mr Anthony  pushed for a Resources Tax if super profits were made fromeither uranium or Bass Strait oil. 

 His attempt to introduce such a tax was thwarted in the Joint Party room by the overwhelming majority of Liberal Party opposition to it. 
That is what  Mr Lloyd  tells people in the heart of his electorate. The Liberal Party, which has been the victim of this sort of dishonesty for a very long time, ought to be made aware of it. It ought to be very angry about it. Of course,  Mr Lloyd  punted on the  Shepparton News  not being seen by anyone in the Federal Parliament except himself. He thought he would get away with it. He did not get away with it. The question was put to  Mr Anthony  and  Mr Anthony  confirmed what I had said and disowned his own colleague, which prompted the following comment from  Dr Klugman  by way of a point of order: 
Does all this mean that the honourable member for Murray has been lying, as reported in the  Shepparton News! 
The electors of Murray deserve something better than  Mr Lloyd  as their representative. The third issue on which he claimed that I was wrong was that I said that the Primary Industry Bank would run out of money at about the end of April. It has since gone broke, so he was wrong on all three of those matters. 
The other point I wish to raise has more relevance to the future than to the past. It concerns the Wheat Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill, which needs to be passed by the end of September this year to replace the present Act. In a recently published article entitled 'Constitutional Obstacles to Organised Marketing in Australia', Michael Cooper quotes comments from various justices of the High Court of Australia in the Clark King case. He quotes Justices Mason, Jacobs and Stephen and Chief Justice Barwick. I shall read two passages. Justices Mason and Jacobs said: 
The efficacy of the scheme - 
That is, the wheat stabilisation scheme- 
. depends upon the delivery of the whole wheat crop to the Wheat Board ... a comprehensive scheme is the only practical and reasonable manner of regulating the wheat industry . . . 
They found in favour of the Board. Chief Justice Barwick said:   . . it is not established that the Government's monopoly in trading in wheat is the only possible and reasonable manner of regulating trade and commerce in the commodity ... the material does not even establish that the prohibition of interstate trade in wheat is indispensable to the stabilising effectiveness of the legislation. 
In commenting on those extracts from the judgment, the author of the article stated: 
That the above views are diametrically opposed is unsurprising. What is surprising is that they should be expressed not by some commission of enquiry with special expertise in wheat marketing, or by a legislative body representing the various interests at stake, but by the High Court of Australia. 
The article then drew attention to what has been a very long standing problem in this country- the propensity of the judiciary to usurp the political legislative powers of the Parliament. There is nothing new about this. Significantly, the Privy Council assertion in 1949 that it would sit in judgment over the Parliament on political matters- politics disguised as law- was used as the starting point for the judgments of all but one of the five justices who sat on the Clark King case. The Privy Council doublespeak arising from the bank nationalisation case of 1945 was described by the author in these words: 
. the Privy Council proved itself to be just as adroit as the High Court in speaking with many voices. 
He went on to quote the critical passage of the Privy Council's 1949judgment, which said: 
Yet, about this, as about every other proposition in this field, a reservation must be made. For their Lordships do not intend to lay it down that in no circumstances could the exclusion of competition so as to create a monopoly either in a State or Commonwealth agency or in some other body be justified. Every case must be judged on its own facts and in its own setting of time and circumstance. 
That last passage is the critical one. What the Privy Council is saying in that passage is that the judiciary will sit in judgment on top of the Parliament in making political decisions. That passage was used as the starting point for 4 of the 5 justices who sat on the High Court case, then the Clark King Case. The Privy Council continued: 
. and it may be that in regard to some economic activities and at some stage of social development it might be maintained that prohibition with a view to State monopoly was the only practical and reasonable manner of regulation and that inter-State trade commerce and intercourse - 
Listen to this for a piece of doublespeak-   . . thus prohibited and thus monopolised remained absolutely free. 
Listen to this again: 
. thus prohibited and thus monopolised remained absolutely free. 
Apart from the doublespeak in the statement the really objectionable principle is that the courts are asserting that they have the right to make political judgments and to decide whether the political judgments of the elected parliament will stand in law. That is a highly obnoxious principle. It is very disturbing that four out of five justices who sat on that case used that as their starting point and likewise asserted their right to sit in judgment over the Parliament. 
Last Thursday in Brisbane the Chief Justice of Australia, who is, of course, notorious for attempting to refer back to the court all previous judgments that have gone against him, in a different case, the Uebergang case, ruled against the Wheat Board and decided that the Full Court would hear Uebergang 's appeal.  Sir Garfield's  political motives are, of course, quite clear. He has always been a highly political judge. In this instance he is referring the case to the Full Court knowing that there has been another appointment since then, that Justice Wilson could be expected to support him and that one of the other justices who did not sit on the earlier Clark King Case will also support him. There is little doubt, reprehensible though the fact may be, that  Sir Garfield  will successfully overturn the earlier decision that went against him. The Full Court almost certainly will find in favour of Uebergang and the wheat stabilisation legislation, which the Government is obliged to pass by the end of September, will be emasculated either before or after it passes the Parliament. 
In summary, and with direct relevance to the Bill, I state again the Opposition's judgment on it. Because it is not the Boards' fault that the Government lost control of the money supply in the economy, the Opposition is not opposing the legislation. The first Bill will provide a subsidy of about $6m probably to pick up the difference in the interest charges which the Board would have paid to the Reserve Bank and those which it will have to pay to the private market. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Is  Mr Groom,  who represents the Minister for Science and the Environment in the other place, adequately briefed on important matters within the Minister's portfolio? If he is, why did  Mr Groom  fail to correct  Mr Newman  when  Mr Newman  gave what the Government claims was an incorrect answer to a question from  Mr Humphreys  last Thursday? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 February 1 979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; (f) Denis M. Gilmourand Associates Pty Ltd: (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 March 1 979: 
How many times during each month since December 1 977 have interviews with and /or reports of statements by: (a) spokesman for farm organisations; (b) parliamentary representatives of the Australian Labor Party; (c) spokesman for trade unions; (d) parliamentary representatives of the National Country Party; and (e) parliamentary representatives of the Liberal Party of Australia, been broadcast on Australian Broadcasting Commission Radio programmes: 
the  Country Hour in  each State; and 
ii )  National Farm Report. 
-i -SH- I am in disagreement with your ruling,  Mr President 
-While the present Chief Justice sits on the-- 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I am surprised that  Senator Walters  spent so much time eulogising tax indexation since the Income Tax (Rates and Assessment) Amendment Bill 1979 which is before us abolishes it. The day after last year's Budget was brought down the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  appeared before the National Press Club. He was asked a question by Brett Bailey of the Adelaide  Advertiser- so  I hope that  Senator Messner  is listening.  Mr Bailey  asked: 

 Mr Treasurer, can you give us a guarantee that the tax surcharge will be abolished on 30 June 1979? If you can give us such a guarantee, can you give us any reason why anyone should believe you? 
He did give the guarantee that the surcharge would be abolished, but now nobody can give any reasons why anybody should believe anything that the Fraser Government says or why anybody should take any of its promises seriously. 
This Bill, which was the central component of the horror Budget announced on 24 May 1 979, repudiates three taxation promises of the Fraser Government. I refer to the promises concerning indexation of the personal income tax schedule, the stock valuation adjustment and the abolition of the tax surcharge. It is interesting to note the Government's claim that the reason that the measure will apply only until the end of November is that it is not possible at this stage to forecast accurately the fiscal magnitudes for 1978- 79 and that, given that imprecise factual knowledge which the Government has, it cannot at this stage make a decision regarding the levels of personal and other taxation throughout the 1979- 80 fiscal year. That is what the Government says. 
However, it is interesting to note that the Government did not suffer from that sort of constraint  Vh  years ago when Minister after Minister was able to assure us that the Budget deficit for the 1975-76 year would have finished up at $4,500 billion if no changes had been made to government expenditure policies. Three and a half years ago Minister after Minister told us that they could forecast the final budgetary outcome seven months in advance. Now they cannot forecast it five weeks in advance. I suggest that anyone who believes that would have to be as gullible as anyone who believes that  Mr Newman,  the Minister for National Development, misheard a question last Thursday. The real reason why the Government has introduced this interim measure and not made a final decision on levels of personal taxation for the whole fiscal year is that it has not yet settled the squabbles within its ranks about what it is going to do. 
On Tuesday, 29 May 1979 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  spoke about this matter in the House of Representatives. The Prime Minister- this purveyor of myths- said, amongst other things: 
The vision that brought this Government to office has not been dulled . . . That vision keeps us on our path and gives us the courage to respond to reality effectively and in the interests of Australia. 
He continued: 
The task of this Government has been to rebuild the strength and independence of this nation, to reassert the fundamental principle that governments can establish the circumstances, the opportunities for people to achieve and create and that ultimately it is only an independent, self-reliant society that can develop Australia. We have been working to establish the circumstances in which Commonwealth and State governments live within their means and the circumstances in which Australian industries will once again be independent, excel in the Australian market, move out into export markets and employ more people. We have been working to establish the circumstances in which people can be self-reliant . . . We have been working to strengthen the life, the vitality and the vigour of the Australian people . . . We have a vision of a liberal society of free, independent people with a pride in being able to do things for themselves- an Australia of growing strength, unequalled as a place to bring up a family, unequalled in freedom and unequalled in opportunity; a nation creating our own distinctive culture, our own identity out of the culture and history that so many people have brought to us from so many different lands. 
The speech went on and on. All that David Barnett neglected to mention when he wrote that speech for the Prime Minister was the attribution to the book  Atlas Shrugged.  So much for the myths, the visions and the hallucinations. 
What are the realities of what has happened in Australia in the  Vh  years that the Fraser Government has been in power? Firstly, unemployment has doubled, Secondly, the Fraser Government presides over the highest levels of taxation that we have ever seen outside wartime. Thirdly, it is true that inflation has been reduced from 1 3 per cent to a little over 8 per cent but it is now rising and nobody seriously doubts that it will hit 10 percent within the next 12 months. Interest rates are rising. The money supply is out of control. The aggregate deficit for the three Fraser Budgets is $9.5 billion. It was $6.5 billion for the three Budgets of the Labor Government. The deficit under this Government is a higher proportion of gross domestic product that it was in the three fiscal years that Labor was in power. 
If  Senator Walters  would like the exact figures, I point out that the average deficit for the Fraser Budgets was 3.5 per cent of GDP and for the three Labor Budgets it was 3.3 per cent of GDP. That was the result after the Government had finished fiddling the figures. The entire public authority deficit for Australia in the three fiscal years of the present Government is 5.7 per cent of GDP as against 4.3 per cent in the preceding 3 years. This Government has borrowed more than $4 billion overseas in the last 2 years for the sterile purpose of propping up the Australian dollar. But even then it has been devalued by more than 20 per cent. Our overseas borrowings exceed our overseas reserves by nearly $ 1 billion. 
If one applied to these matters the simplistic rules that Malcolm Fraser applied a few years ago, one would be entitled to say that the nation is internationally bankrupt and about to go into international receivership. The Prime Minister is a failure. His government has failed. He has dishonoured all his solemn promises. I will refer to just a few of them. The list is not exhaustive. He said that we do not want a tourist as a Prime Minister and promised that we would not get one if he became Prime Minister. He promised jobs for all. He promised to maintain Medibank. He promised to support wage indexation. He promised twice yearly indexation of pensions. He promised personal tax indexation. He promised stock valuation adjustment indexation. He promised to abolish last year's  2(Ac  in the dollar income tax surcharge. Above all he promised integrity and propriety in government. 
Eight Ministers have been sacked or forced to resign; and there are three more resignations in the pipeline. As his failures, and his flaws become too obvious, four identifiable reactions emerge. Firstly, he rewrites history. He now claims that his promise in November 1977 to bring down interest rates by 2 per cent was an objective to which the Government was striving.  His  exact words were:  lt is a target that can and will be achieved. 
He makes a virtue of expediency. The whole thrust of the Prime Minister's apologia for the measures we are debating today and the measures associated with it in the horror Budget was that the Government had to break its promises to maintain its credibility. He stands truth on its head. Friedmanism was the economic doctrine which this Government preached. The central tenet of Friedmanism is about the rate of inflation is a function of changes in the money supply. Two months ago no less a person than the Treasurer told us that the reason the money supply was growing at a faster rate than the Government had anticipated was that inflation was running at a faster rate than the Government had anticipated. So, the Government turned the central tenet of its own economic doctrine on its head. The Prime Minister blames others for his failures. In the same speech to which I referred earlier, that is on Tuesday of last week, as part of his apologia for this string of broken promises which the Senate is debating in this Bill, he said: 
At the same time-- 
This was earlier this year-  inflation in a number of countries is running much higher. In the 6 months to March 1 979 inflation is running at an annual rate of 10. 1 percent in the United States, 10.7 percent in the United Kingdom, 10.5 per cent in Canada, 15.4 per cent in Italy, 10. 1 per cent in New Zealand and even in Germany, which has a very good anti-inflationary record, the inflation rate has about doubled during this year. 
As a result of these changes inflationary pressures increase and there is a clear need for Government action to maintain control over the economy, particularly so since the 5 per cent inflation forecast in Budget statement No. 2 will not bc obtained. 
In other words, he is pleading that external influences beyond his control have forced the Government into this massive repudiation of all its solemn electoral promises. What a turn around this is. What a turn around for the fearless statesman who addressed the conference of the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science on 22 January 1 975. He stated: 
National leaders look to parallels, they search for excuses when they should look simply to their own failures- failure to adapt, to perceive, to understand. I do not believe that men and women are governed by inexorable events beyond their control. When political leaders say the present situation cannot be helped, it is part of a world situation, they arc expressing the futility of their own leadership when, if they were men of real stature, they would be saying 'we can overcome'. 
So much for the fearless statesman of 1975 who now pleads failure on the grounds that external events beyond his control have forced his massive repudiation of solemn electoral pledges. Let him abide by his own standards- let him resign. In no area is this man's failure so absolute as in the area of taxation. In his policy speech on 2 1 November 1977, during the last election campaign, the Prime Minister stated: 
It is quite clear that the Labor Party would abolish what is called tax indexation. 
He said that the Labor Party would abolish tax indexation but the Senate is now debating a Bill to do just that. The measure was introduced by his Government. He continued: 
In other words, they would, if they were in office, greatly increase the personal income tax the public must pay. They would not do this in an open way, through legislation, but by stealth- that is, as your income increased through inflation (which their spending policies would encourage) they would take a higher proportion of it in tax. 
I shall say more about that shortly. Also during the election campaign, in a statement made on 7 December, he said: 
We have broken the back of inflation. We have halved Labor's big spending deficit. 
On the Government's own admission, that deficit is shooting up to $3,500 billion. He continued: 
We are getting Australia on the move with $6 billion of new development ready to go. That means jobs. We have ended the Labor tax rip-off. Indexation, again, has reduced  everyones  personal taxes already. They will be cut again from 1 February. That will mean jobs, lt will be worth working overtime again. We will boost demand and jobs, with another $26m a week going into the economy. We are getting interest rates down. In the next 12 months that will save young couples buying a home $ 10 a week on repayments. 
Then, on 25 November, as we got even closer to the polling day, he said: 
The differences between the two parties on taxation, reveal the fundamental contrast between the philosophies of the Government and the Whitlam Labor Party. We have taken the view that a reduction in the personal tax burden is essential to economic recovery and to boosting job opportunities. Taxes which are too high encourage people to seek higher wages to compensate . . . 
That is a reasonable paraphrase of what the Prime Minister and other Ministers in this Government have been saying for 31/2 years. Those who said that taxes were sapping incentives and destroying the economy now preside over the highest tax government in Australia's history. The Government tries to hide the fact by referring to what would have happened if a taxation schedule which applied 4 years ago were still in operation. It would be able to produce an even more dramatic result if it plucked the tax schedule from 1950 and applied it to today's incomes. The Government has been exposed effectively in that piece of duplicity and deception not only by the Labor Party but also by  Mr Risstrom,  of the Australian Taxpayers Association. Even in the relatively penitent mood which prevails today, the Government continues to misrepresent the truth.  Mr Fraser  says that nobody's tax will go up. In fact, there will be a double barrelled increase in personal taxation as a direct consequence of these Bills which the Senate is debating. I have drawn up a table which shows the tax payable by a single adult male on average weekly earnings, comparing the September quarter of 1978 with the September quarter of 1979. The estimate for that average weekly earnings assumes an 8 per cent increase in average weekly earnings over that 12 month period. 
It is my estimate. I do not think it will be seriously disputed and it will not make any difference to the conclusion even if it is slightly in error. Incomes will rise by $ 1 7.50 per week and taxation will go up by $9 per week. A person on average weekly earnings will be paying $9 more in taxation from 1 July 1979 than he did on 1 July 1978. The tax take on the increased income for average weekly earners is a staggering 5 1.5 per cent. Subject to the approval of the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster),  I seek leave to have that document incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="081232197906053_37_0.jpg"></graphic>

Nobody will pay more tax, indeed! Average weekly earners will be paying $9 a week more in tax in July of this year than they paid in July of last year. That is not the wealthy, high income earner paying $9 a week more, it is the ordinary, average weekly income recipient. Of course, if one likes to look at total public authority receipts as a share of gross domestic product, it can be seen that the average for the 3 years of the Fraser Government is 25.8 per cent, although since then that has been slightly reduced to 25.7 per cent by the estimated short fall in avenue, compared with 24.5 per cent for the 3 years of the Whitlam Government. The total public authority receipts, expressed as a percentage of gross domestic product are running 1.2 per cent higher than during the three Labor fiscal years. 
Singled out for special punishment under the Fraser Government's record tax ripoff is the wage and salary earner, the person who pays payasyouearn taxation. I have another table which shows the PAYE tax contribution from the fiscal years 1973-74 to 1978-79, expressed as a percentage of GDP. This accounts for changes in money values and so on. Those figures show that during the three fiscal years when Labor was in government PAYE taxpayers contributed an amount equal to 9.39 per cent of GDP. It is estimated that after three LiberalNational Country Party Budgets PAYE taxpayers ordinary wage and salary earners will have contributed the equivalent of 10.35 per cent of GDP during the preceding three fiscal years. That is a full one per cent increase under this Government. Because of the Bills we are now debating, the tax take next year will be an even higher percentage of GDP. 
The obverse of the record tax rip off from wage earners which is demonstrated by the table to which I have referred, is the favoured treatment given to the wealthy and the tax dodgers who are currently estimated to be defrauding Government revenue of $2 billion each year. 
Given the composition of this Government it is not surprising that no serious action has been taken against them. Most of the senior Ministers operate schemes which are euphemistically called tax minimisation schemes. Probably most of the back benchers do that as well, but we do not know so much about them. Of the wealthy democratic countries in the world only Australia does not tax capital. The Government has taken only token action against tax dodgers. We have heard from the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  that section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act is about to be rewritten. The only way for the Government to deal with section 260 while people like Barwick are sitting on the bench of the High Court of Australia is for it to make a clear statement on the definition of taxable income. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
1 ) Is it correct, as reported in the agricultural press in early May 1979, that the Government plans to place the Bureau of Agricultural Economics under stricter departmental and ministerial control, because the Bureau's objective assessment of agricultural issues is an embarrassment to the Government. 
Will the Minister guarantee that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics will not be muzzled or transformed into yet another Government propaganda outlet. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 28 February 1 979: 
1 ) Were first advance payments to Australian wheatgrowers delayed earlier this year because the Reserve Bank 's Rural Credits Department refused to advance to the Australian Wheat Board sufficient funds to meet its obligation to pay the first advance on all 1978-79 season wheat received from growers. 
On whose authority or instructions did the Reserve Bank refuse further advances to the Wheat Board. 
) Did the Reserve Bank later make available to the Australian Wheat Board sufficient funds to honour its obligation to pay the first advance on all wheat received from wheatgrowers. 
On whose authority or instructions did the Reserve Bank reverse its earlier policy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) Did the Minister earlier this year, either alone or in conjunction with other Ministers and after conferring with the Secretary of the Treasury and/or other senior Treasury officials and/or the Governor and/or other senior officials of the Reserve Bank, agree to prevent the Reserve Bank's Rural Credits Department advancing sufficient funds to the Australian Wheat Board to enable the Board to meet its obligation to pay the first advance on all 1978-79 season wheat received from wheatgrowers. 
) Was it intended that the Wheat Board borrow the rest of the money required to meet its obligation to wheatgrowers from the trading banks. 
Yes,  Mr President.  I will quote documents later. Therefore the Opposition has brought this matter before the Federal Parliament. The reason we have done so is not only the Federal Government's clear right but also its obligation, pursuant to the 1967 referendum, to protect the rights of Aborigines. We will test the integrity of this Government and see whether it has the intestinal fortitude to accept that obligation. I am assured by competent legal advice that the Commonwealth can pass an Act which would assert, among other things, that no Aborigine shall be deprived of a vote by any procedure for enrolment more difficult than that contained in the Federal Electoral Act. I am reliably assured that a number of other Bills asserting that right of the Federal Parliament could be passed. If the Western Australian Bill ultimately becomes an Act we will expect this Government to accept its obligations to protect the electoral rights of Aborigines in Western Australia. I am assured that such a Federal Act, providing it referred specifically to Aborigines, would invalidate the relevant sections of the State Act. 
The reason we have brought this matter before the Senate is that the two Federal Ministers most directly responsible for this matter, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  and the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  sit in this chamber. We hope that they may be spurred on to force or induce the Government to take appropriate action if it becomes necessary. We also believe, I think correctly, that  Senator Chaney  and  Senator Durack  are two of the more prominent small 'F Liberal members of the Western Australian Liberal Party who have a good deal of sympathy for Aboriginal people. We want to test whether that sympathy can be translated into action, particularly in the face of the seeming indifference of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  This is exemplified by an article in the Melbourne  Age  of 17 November 1978 which reported the findings by  Mr Justice  Smith in the Court of Disputed Returns. The article is reprinted from the  West Australian.  The article reads: 
Despite persistent questioning,  Mr Fraser  refused to be drawn on the State Government's proposals. 
The article was referring to the State Government's proposals to amend the Electoral Actproposals which were thrown out of Parliament. The article continued: 
He said that the electoral amendment act was a matter for the Western Australian Government. 
I do not know whether that is still the view of the Prime Minister. We are asserting that the Commonwealth Government is not accepting its responsibilities pursuant to the 1967 referendum if it fails to protect the electoral rights of Aborigines. The main feature of the Western Australian Bill currently before the Western Australian Parliament- it will be revived in the August session- is clause 8 on page 4. It provides that electors may be enrolled only if their application for enrolment is witnessed by a person coming within one of the following four categories: An electoral officer; a justice of the peace; a clerk of courts; or a policeman. Clause 8 is one critical clause. The only two categories of people with whom Aborigines in the remote parts of the State are likely to come into contact are justices of the peace and policemen. To the Aborigines they represent authority figures. Most of the Aborigines experience with authority has been an unhappy one. Usually their only contact with authority is when they are on the receiving end of the punitive arm of the law. It is no accident that the right to witness enrolment applications has been restricted in this way. There is no reasonable doubt that it has been deliberately engineered in this manner by the Government of 
Western Australia to discourage Aborigines from enrolling. They may not actually encounter outright hostility or discouragement from policemen and justices of the peace in these areas but they would certainly be reluctant to approach them. It will create difficulties in other areas of the State but nowwhere will those difficulties be as intense, or their effects so discriminatory as they will be among the Aborigines in the more isolated parts of the State. 
At a lower order of magnitude, clause 16 of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill of Western Australia provides for mobile polling booths, a move which has been generally welcomed, but no obligation is imposed on the electoral officer to advertise where the mobile polling booths will be visiting. Given the record of the present Government of Western Australia in this matter, there is no reason to believe that it will adequately advertise the areas which will be visited by mobile polling booths in the remote parts of the State. Clause 20 of the Bill requires that this mandatory question be asked of all people presenting themselves to vote: Have you already voted here or elsewhere in this election? Previously, the only mandatory questions directed to electors were about whether they were enrolled in the division and whether they were resident in the division. The Government plans to insert this mandatory question into the relevant Act: Have you already voted here or elsewhere in this election. That might sound a simple question to urban Anglo-Saxon Australians. It is not a simple question to Aboriginal people to whom English is not their native tongue, nor would it be a simple question to a number of non Anglo-Saxon European migrants. 
Clause 18 (3) (c), which concerns directions by the presiding officer to voters who present themselves to vote, is a provision that the Opposition believes is open to abuse if misinterpreted in the way that provisions of the existing Act were deliberately misinterpreted by the Chief Electoral Officer, on instructions from the Minister of Justice and the Attorney-General, in 1977. In particular, the amendment fails to provide for what was one of the key findings of  Mr Justice  Smith in his Court of Disputed Returns judgment.  Mr Justice  Smith said: 
The presentation of a list of How to Vote Card by an illiterate elector is a proper direction by such an elector, both as to the marking of his first and subsequent preferences provided that the Presiding Officers takes the direction of reading what is written on the List or Card to the Elector and by that or other means satisfies himself that the card reflects the wishes of the Elector before he marks the Ballot paper. 
It would have been possible to state explicitly in the Act that the presentation of a how to vote card is, as  Mr Justice  Smith found, sufficient indication of the elector's intention to vote. It has not been done. Given the record of the Western Australian Government, the Opposition believes that the reasons are sinister. Most of the recommendations of the electoral inquiry of  Mr Justice  Kay were based on the suppositions that manipulation and malpractice were widespread. I daresay that  Senator Chaney  will use that as a defence of the Western Australian Government, if he is to defend it. No evidence has been presented to the Kay inquiry, the Court of Disputed Returns presided over by  Mr Justice  Smith, to Parliament or in the libel case involving  Mr Tozer  that such manipulation and malpractice exists. So the Kay report must be suspect to at least that extent. 
It is necessary to understand the people with whom we are dealing in this matter. Not necessarily in order of declining knavery, we have firstly,  Mr O'Driscoll,  a prominent Liberal Party member and resident of the Kimberleys, who, during the 1977 election campaign, lied to the presiding officer at the GoGo booth. He told the presiding officer that he had telephoned the returning officer and the returning officer had given directions regarding the procedures to be followed with illiterate voters. It was subsequently disclosed in the Court of Disputed Returns that no such telephone conversation took place. For that action,  Mr O'Driscoll  was congratulated by Alan Ridge, the member for Kimberley and a Minister in the Government of Western Australia, for the 'trick at GoGo'.  His  exact words in the letter which he wrote to  Mr O'Driscoll  and which was subsequently produced in evidence at court were: 
I wanted you to know also that I didn't underestimate the value of your trick at GoGo on the 1 9th. We could have been in real trouble without the services of a person such as yourself as scrutineer and I am extremely grateful. 
Secondly, we have  Mr Medcalf,  who is now the Attorney-General of Western Australia. He was found by  Mr Justice  Smith to have improperly influenced another Minister to instruct the Chief Electoral Officer to dispatch a telegram to attendants and presiding officers at Kimberley polling booths. I refer again to the judgment of  Mr Justice  Smith. He said: 
I should hasten to say that  Mr McIntyre's  integrity in the matter - 

 Mr McIntyre being the Chief Electoral Officer;  was not in any way impugned. He found himself in a difficult situation and did what he thought he had to do. which was to obey the instructions of the Minister to whom he was responsible. 
Further,  Mr Justice  Smith referred to a marginal notation on a letter written by  Mr Mclntyre  to the Minister which states: 
Subsequently advised by C.E.O. 
The Chief Electoral Officer-  that the above telegram was well received by P.O.'s - 
The presiding officers-  and was of assistance to them. 

 Mr McIntyre identified in court that the handwriting in the marginal notation was that of the Minister. The judgment of  Mr Justice  Smith says that  Mr McIntyre  could not recall advising the Minister in these terms. The clear implication is that the Minister in that instance was falsifying evidence. He was claiming that he had been advised by the Chief Electoral Officer when he had not been advised. 
I withdraw it. Again I quote from what  Mr Justice  Smith had to say. He said that in the handwriting of the Minister a marginal notation appeared which reads: 
Subsequently advised by C.E.O. that the above telegram was well received by P.O.'s and was of assistance to them.  Mr MacIntyre  could not recall advising the Minister in these terms. 
The response of the Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, when  Mr Justice  Smith's judgment was handed down was, firstly, to reject it out of hand and to say that it was the opinion of one man. With respect to  Mr Justice  Smith's finding concerning the Attorney-General,  Mr Medcalf, Sir Charles  said: 
I don 't care what the Judge said. Our Attorney-General is one of the most revered names in the legal profession in this State. 
That was the Premier's reaction. 
The  President  of the Liberal Party in Western Australia is  Mr Noel  Crichton-Browne, who was a major shareholder in Burrill Investments. Most of his relatives were also major shareholders.  Senator Rae  will no doubt have a clear recollection of Burrill Investments which by fraudulent means made a profit of $1.3m during the Poseidon boom. Crichton-Browne, stock exchange racketeer, is  President  of the Liberal Party in Western Australia. He has been deeply involved in this matter. He is probably about to become - 
-I thought better of you. 
It was colourful and accurate. The fact is that Crichton-Browne was the major shareholder and the founding shareholder in Burrill Investments, which was found by the Senate Committee investigating the matter to have manipulated the stock exchange and to have made a profit of at least $ 1 .3m by misleading the stock exchange. If  Senator Rae  objects to the word 'racketeer' he can find some euphemism for it. But the fact is the Crichton-Browne became a very wealthy man by those means. He is the  President  of the Western Australian division of the Liberal Party, which tells us something about the prevailing ethical standards of that party in Western Australia. The other people heavily involved in this matter- Rowell, Broomhall and O 'Driscoll -are nominally residents of the Kimberley area. They comprise the sort of imperial wizards of the Kimberley Ku Klux Clan. They conceived the strategy to misuse the office of the Chief Electoral Officer, having done that they sent a team of five lawyers to seven polling booths in the Kimberleys with the explicit purpose - as the Smith report confirms- of sabotaging the Aboriginal vote. The telegram which the Chief Electoral Officer was leaned upon or instructed to send was vigorously denounced also by the Smith inquiry. All of these people acted on behalf of the Liberal candidate,  Mr Ridge. His  attitude to Aborigines can be seen in reports to which I will refer. Reporting on the proceedings in the Court of Disputed Returns presided over by  Mr Justice  Smith the  West Australian  newspaper of 26 August 1 977 had this to say: 
Keith Alan Ridge, the successful Liberal Party candidate in the disputed Kimberley election, complained six days later about having to spend the last two weeks of his campaign among Aborigines. 
Ridge also claimed that his time could have been more realistically devoted towards encouraging some of the more intelligent people in the community to adopt the Liberal philosophy. 
Intelligence is not necessarily correlated to morality, but I would have expected that once that view became public it certainly would not have induced anyone with any moral principles to align himself with the Liberal Party. In letters that  Mr Ridge  wrote, he made comments regarding his fears not that Aborigines were being manipulated or improperly influenced, but that they were taking advantage of their right to vote. In a letter to  Mr David  Foster,  Mr Ridge  said: 
Unless the Act is amended in the forseeable future, I would have no intention of standing for election again in Kimberley because I believe that within three years there could be in the order of 4,000 Aborigines on the roll and I am sure you would agree we would be fighting a lost cause. 
That gets to the heart of the objectives of the Liberal Party. The Liberals know that if the Aborigines in the Kimberleys are listed on the elected roll, they will not hold the seat. The situation could not have been put more clearly by  Mr Ridge.  I should mention that the only reason these letters were revealed, was that an Order of Discovery was made by the Court of Disputed Returns. In a letter to  Mr John  Fletcher,  Mr Alan  Ridge, a Minister for the Crown in Western Australia, said: 
To me it seems madness that we should have to campaign amongst the Aborigines the way that we did and I am hopeful that at some time in the future the Electoral Act will be amended with a view to overcoming some of the difficulties which were experienced on polling day. I can foresee that unless this is done, there could be anything up to 4,000 Aborigines on the roll at the next election and, under these circumstances, the Liberal Party would probably be fighting a lost cause. 
That spells out the purpose of the Western Australian amending Bill, which is to deprive the Aborigines of their right to vote. The Opposition is calling upon the Federal Government to exercise the authority vested in it and the obligation imposed on it by the 1967 referendum to ensure that this does not happen. 
These are the sorts of people with whom we are dealing: The member for Pilbara has referred to the Aborigines in the north as 'savages'.  Mr Tozer,  who was dragged into court by the Labor Party candidate, had $20,000 taken from him as a result of a defamation action. Rowell, Broomhall and O 'Driscoll are the people who conceived the electoral strategy. They are the people who suggested that a Minister of the Western Australian Government should improperly instruct the Chief Electoral Officer to send telegrams to presiding officers in Kimberley polling booths. The purpose of that was to sabotage elections and to ensure that the Liberal Party candidate was returned regardless of what the people who lived in the Kimberleys actually thought or wanted.  Mr Ridge,  a Minister of the Government in Western Australia, wrote to one of his party workers congratulating him on having lied to a presiding officer about alleged instructions from the Chief Electoral Officer in a phone call he did not even make. Behind these people and approving of their actions we have the Premier,  Sir Charles  Court. 
The Smith judgment revelations of electoral chicanery organised and implemented by the Liberal Party are devastating. They show the misuse of power by Ministers to subvert the Act and detail lies told by Liberal Party workers, for which they were congratulated by  Mr Ridge,  a Minister of the Crown. Finally,  Mr Smith  made the election void on those and on other grounds. The response of the Western Australian Premier was that that was one man's opinion. When it was obvious that the Smith judgment was to find against  Mr Ridge  and against the Liberal Party, the Premier moved to disinfranchise Aborigines by means of his notorious 1977 electoral Bill which was subsequently thrown out of Parliament, primarily by the Labor Party but also as a result of a revolt from half the National Country Party,  Mr Dadour,  the Liberal member for Subiaco and, to his credit, the  Speaker  of the Western Australian Assembly,  Mr Ian  Thompson, a Liberal member. But it is a very sad commentary on the state of liberalism in Western Australia that that revolt in relation to his notorious Act on the non-Labor side was led not by Liberal members but by members of the National Country Party. The Melbourne  Age  said of the role of  Sir Charles  in this matter: 
Anyone more sensitive and less arrogant that the Western Australian premier would have accepted the court's findings, apologised to the electorate and taken steps to see that this disgraceful episode was not repeated. Instead,  Sir Charles  Court rushed in legislation which, he must have known was blatantly discriminatory. 
The Premier did not get away with it that time but he is trying to do it again. That is the purpose of this motion: The Opposition is seeking an assurance from this Government that, having been given the power and the obligation to protect the rights of Aborigines, it at least guarantees- if necessary by an Act of the Federal Parliament pre-empting the Western Australian Act, if and when that is passed- the rights of Aborigines to vote at elections in Western Australia. It should also to do that in relation to other States if and when the situation arises. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
These five measures- the Live-Stock Slaughter (Export Inspection Charge) Bill 1979, the Live-Stock Slaughter (Export Inspection Charge) Collection Bill 1979, the Grain (Export Inspection Charge) Bill 1979, the Grain (Export Inspection Charge) Collection Bill 1979 and the Wool Industry Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979- are part of the package which comprised the Howard-Fraser horror Budget of 24 May 1 979. The increased charges and the reduction in assistance announced in the package will deprive the agricultural sector alone of between $90m and $ 120m. According to the Government's estimates these Bills will raise $ 1 7,735,000. 
The common denominator of the Bills before us is that they seek to recover an estimated 50 per cent of the costs incurred by the Commonwealth in providing export inspection services for agricultural products- principally for meat but also for wool certification and guarantees of cleanliness of grain for exports. The export inspection services are a quality control measure which enhance the value of agricultural exports on world markets. Indeed, there are many countries that would not accept exports without being provided with such a guarantee of quality and cleanliness from some government authority. So, the Bills are related in that way. As I said, the Bills will raise in round figures an estimated $ 17.7m this financial year. 
The cost to the industry is somewhat greater than the direct charge imposed upon it. The major component of the revenue raised by these Bills is the export inspection charge for beef. Although it certainly seems to be beyond the intellectual comprehension of members of the National Country Party and, from their published remarks, a number of members of the Liberal Party, the domestic price of beef is, with minor variations, determined by export parity. Given the existence of a charge on exports, the domestic price of beef will fall, if not by a 1 : 1 ratio precisely, by something close to a 1 : 1 ratio. The cost to the beef industry in terms of lost revenue will be approximately double the direct cost of the export charge. That is based on the assumption that the distribution of beef consumption will remain roughly 50 per cent in the home market and 50 per cent in export marketsthe figure around which it has fluctuated for a number of years. The cost to the beef producers will probably be something in excess of $30m in forgone revenue instead of $ 1 7.7m. 
That point has never been understood by the present Government parties. There are plenty of instances to which one could refer. A proposal was put forward in 1973 but it was never endorsed by the then Labor Government, although farmers all over Australia were continually told by irresponsible National Country Party and Liberal Party members that such a proposal was contemplated. It was argued by some in 1973- not by the Government of the day- that an export tax over and above the export inspection service ought to be imposed on beef in order to reduce beef prices on the domestic market. There is no doubt that such a tax, whether imposed then or now, would have the effect of reducing beef prices on the domestic market because of the close correlation between domestic beef prices and export beef prices. That fairly elementary principle of marketing was beyond the intellectual comprehension of the then Opposition parties. I suspect that now, when in government, it remains beyond their intellectual comprehension. 
On 13 September 1973  Mr Anthony  made a speech to the Hume Electorate Council. An irresponsible story was fabricated by  Mr Anthony  and his colleagues that an export tax of 12c per lb was to be imposed on beef in order to reduce domestic prices.  Mr Anthony  said in his speech: 
But I believe the kinds of intervention proposed by the Government would be impractical anyway. 
The vast number of types of meat and the lack of a grading system, together with the existence of large numbers of producers, wholesalers and retailers and exporters would make the application and administration of any scheme of the kinds proposed very difficult to administer and costly to operate. 
At the time that that statement was made it was nonsense, and it remains nonsense. There are more examples of  Mr Anthony's  ignorance from the same period. When addressing the Queensland Agricultural College at Lawes on 2 1 July 1973 he said: 
There has been a revolution in the beef industry. The revolution has led to a period of unparalleled expansion in the industry, which has set the tune for the industry's future development, provided it receives sympathetic Government consideration during the rest of the 70s. 
That optimistic forecast was made 9 months before the great beef industry collapse, which had been predicted by people more astute than  Mr Anthony.  In the same speech in regard to export markets he said: 
The demand for beef can be expected to continue. 
That of course was also nonsense. In 1 973 the Labor Government imposed an export inspection charge for meat exports similar to that which the Government is imposing by means of this legislation. In my view it is arguable whether such taxes ought to be applied at all. But the case for the application of such a tax is certainly very much stronger at times when the beef export market is buoyant. That is so not only because the industry can better afford to pay for it at this time, but also because it does have some impact- albeit small with a tax of this magnitude- on the domestic price of beef. Therefore it is of some assistance in controlling the increase in the consumer price index in Australia. I do not want to overstate that point because one would need a pretty fine pointed pencil to calculate the extent of the effect on the consumer price index. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that it does have an affect. 
The Opposition has decided not to oppose these 5 Bills, although it will be opposing other Bills which are to be introduced tomorrow or some time later this week and which impose other charges on cattle slaughtering for other purposes. On the ground of historical consistency the Opposition does not oppose these Bills. The imposition of a charge when prices are buoyant and the deletion of it when the industry is depressed builds in a countercyclical stabilisation measure, albeit to a limited degree. We do not oppose the Bills for those reasons. So, on this issue, the Labor Party is being consistent with its record when in government, which is more than can be said for our opponents in the Liberal and National Country parties. 
Apart from the irresponsible fabrication to which I have referred- that is, that concocted by  Mr Anthony  and his colleagues in 1973 that an export tax of 12c per lb was to be imposed on meat- in fact, as I mentioned earlier, an export tax designed to cover the cost of providing meat inspection services was imposed in 1973.  Mr Anthony  said that it would in effect be a penalty on northern Australian beef producers. In the 

 Sydney Morning Herald of 13 September he said: 
The northern areas of Australia, which produce almost solely for export, would be hit particularly hard. 
Whether producers in northern Australia would be hit harder than producers elsewhere in Australia I think is questionable. But that is the sort of claim that  Mr Anthony  was making in 1973.  His  inflammatory and ill-founded rhetoric stirred up a scare campaign among farmers and farmer organisations. The measure which the Labor Government introduced in 1973- the same sort of measure which is being introduced now- was described as a savage attack on the rural sector another body blow on Australian agriculture and so on. The relative silence of these same farmer organisations now, particularly the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, tells us far more about their political prejudices than it tells us about the reality of the measures which were introduced both then and now. At the same time,  Mr Anthony  deplored the imposition of that fairly small export inspection charge levy on the grounds that just at a time when the industry was getting on its feet, here was the Government slapping it down again. In fact the beef industry had been on its feet for several years prior to the 1 973 levy being applied. 
Beef prices in real terms were 15 per cent higher in 1973 than they are now, and the case for imposing the levy was significantly stronger in 1973 than it is now.  Mr Anthony's  ill-founded comment in 1973 that this imposition was being applied just when the industry was emerging from a long recession would in fact be accurate if he applied it to the taxes which his Government is introducing now. But  Mr Anthony's  misrepresentations in this matter fade into insignificance when we look back through the old  Hansards,  and see how the introduction of the same sort of measure in 1973 was described by the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  himself. I propose to quote a few extracts from those old  Hansards.  In relation to the Meat Export Charge Bill, on page 1 187 of the  Hansard  of 18 September 1973,  Mr Sinclair  said: 
It is a Bill which the Opposition dislikes. It dislikes it because of the Bill's philosophical foundation and practical shortcomings. 
That was how  Mr Sinclair  described a Bill six years ago and yet now his Government is introducing a Bill almost identical. He continued: 
. because the industry is affluent at present it should be subjected to a supplementary tax- a tax on profitability. 
That, he said, was the argument of the Government of the day. He said it was reprehensible then. It is nevertheless the argument used by his Government today. He continued: 
In the debate on the Budget, the kicking of the rural community at the hands of the Labor Party and by the honourable member for Riverina ... It was not so much a kicking- it was a bashing. 
Further he states: 
The bashing that this Government has given to the rural community is completely vindictive in its nature and the man who introduced this Bill should be ashamed of himself and of his failure to exercise his responsibility on behalf of his electorate. 
That was  Mr Sinclair  speaking in 1973, describing a Bill which his Government has now introduced in 1979, and which we are debating. 
That is very different, yes. Circumstances alter cases. That is an old Country Party proverb. He continued: 
The anti-rural spectrum of the Leader of the Government is reflected in this Bill. 
That was  Mr Sinclair's  statement, again in 1973. I will not bore honourable senators with all of it. On page 1 190 he continued: 
There is no doubt that this is but the first step. 
There he was repeating the irresponsible fabrication originally floated by his leader that there was about to be a purely revenue-raising and price-depressing export tax imposed. On page 1191 he said: 
It is just the same old levy. The exporters have been damned and condemned. The whole basis of the legislation is a twist of the screw for primary industries. The Government has failed to concern itself about the people who are involved in the export industries. 
As I said previously, that was  Mr Sinclair  in 1973 describing a Bill which he introduced in this Parliament last week, and which we are now debating. On a variant of  Mr Anthony's,  I think, mistaken belief that it is a particular impost on Northern Territory producers,  Mr Sinclair  continued: 
The levy is geographically selective. It is aimed at the meat export industry. 
Finally on page 1 193 he stated: 
The Opposition sees this Bill as another example by this Government of its lack of concern for country industries; of its lack of concern for exporting industries; and for its lack of concern for the total Australian economy. 
So said the Minister for Primary Industry six years ago when describing a Bill, which was similar to the Bill he introduced last week, and which we are debating now. Without any foundation whatsoever,  Mr Sinclair  alleged that the revenue collected by the 1973 Meat Export 
Charge Bill would in fact produce some $ 15m in excess of the actual cost incurred in providing the service. There was no substantial ground for that assertion at the time it was made and it was subsequently proven to be wrong. At no stage did the levy completely cover the cost incurred by the Commonwealth in providing the service. In 1 973 the present Prime Minister who was then a front bencher in the Opposition stated: 
In these circumstances, when farmers debts have increased to $2,000m or more, farmers need better prices to be able to pay off some of that debt. 
That is what the present Prime Minister said when condemning legislation in 1 973. That legislation is virtually identical to the legislation which his Government introduced last week.  Mr Fraser  continued. 
Higher prices and better returns are needed so that the farming community can get out of the debt which low prices and drought have forced it into, and so that farmers can also pay - 
I ask honourable senators to listen to this -  the iniquitous 9 to 10 per cent interest rates which are being imposed by the present Government. 
Apart from the gross inconsistency of condemning in 1973 a measure which he himself introduces now, the iniquitous 9 to 10 per cent interest rates is certainly an interesting reference given the fact that they are above 10 per cent now when his Government has been in power for  Vh  years. He wound up his peroration with these words: 
If the Government does not interfere with this great industry, we may see the present beef herd rising from 28 million or 29 million to 40 million by 1976 or 1977 and probably to SO million by 1 980. Markets are available overseas if there is the inducement in Australia to expand. 
This was said by the man who ultimately became and is Prime Minister of Australia speaking in 1973 on a subject about which he would claim to have considerable expertise. He said the beef herd would probably increase to 50 million by 1980. He welcomed that prospect, and he said that markets were available overseas if there was inducement in Australia to expand. It is just as well he was not in government in 1973, providing such inducements for expansion to produce a herd of 50 million in 1973, given the fact that the herd peaked at just under 35 million in 1977, or given the fact that the herd was larger than the available markets and was a direct cause of the severe recession from which the industry has just emerged. So much for both the expertise and the intellectual and moral consistency of the senior members of this Government. I might add that that is what they were saying inside Parliament. We can only speculate about the inflammatory rhetoric, the nonsense, the ill-founded fabrications which they were concocting and spreading around the countryside when they spoke to small groups of farmers, knowing that nothing would be put down in an authentic record which could subsequently be used against them. We can only speculate about what they were saying outside Parliament. 
The other matter which I want to raise briefly, since it has particular relevance to the beef industry, concerns the statements which were brought down in the House of Representatives on Tuesday 29 May by  Mr Garland  and  Mr Fraser  and which concern the multilateral trade negotiations and their alleged breakthrough into the agricultural markets of the European Economic Community. The outstanding feature of both those statements is that they are nebulous to the point of being completely meaningless. They contain absolutely no quantification of any of the concessions that the Ministers claim to have secured. Both statements should be seen not as a report on success in international trade negotiations by the Australian Government but as a pathetic apologia for futile globetrotting by both of them and by other Ministers. I will quote some examples of the nebulous nature of both statements. The Prime Minister said: 
I believe that as a result of the informed debate which this occasioned there has been increasing acceptance in Europe of the basic correctness of the Australian position. 
What does 'increasing acceptance' mean? He said further: 
I said earlier that we did not seek to overthrow the basis of the Common Agricultural policy. 
It is just as well that he did not because he certainly has not. He said: 
But this is the first step forward that we have taken in this area for many, many years. I look forward to further such steps. 
Where has that step forward taken us? The Prime Minister continued: 
I therefore regard what has happened as a beginning and certainly not an end of a process of continuing change to the advantage of Australian producers and, indeed, all Australians. 
Precisely what change does he claim will continue? He stated further:   the dialogue between Australia and the Community will remain open . . . 
It may remain open, but what will the dialogue produce and what has it produced? He went on: 
These are all signs that Australia and the European Economic Community are on the threshold of a new and better trading relationship . . . 
What signs are there that we are on the threshold of a new and better trading relationship, whatever that might mean? He continued:   . . undeniable scope for significantly increased trade and economic and political co-operation between the Community and Australia. 
What is 'significantly increased trade and economic co-operation'?  His  Minister for Special Trade Representations,  Mr Garland,  was even worse, if anything. With respect to beef he said: 
This quota is to be increased, and although it is allocated on a global basis, Australia should benefit from this increase in proportion to its current share of EEC imports under the quota. 
By how much is the quota to be increased? He said that Australia should benefit from this nebulous and undefined increase in the quota. In addition he said that we will get 'a new and much smaller quota for high quality beef . . .' How much smaller? How big is this alleged quota going to be? In respect to cheese  Mr Garland  said: 
 certain concessions on cheese imports into Australia the EEC has offered to guarantee access for worthwhile tonnage of cheese under favourable conditions. 
There we have a double-barrelled nebulous statement. It refers to certain conditions which have been made available for European penetration of the Australian market. What are those conditions? It refers also to favourable conditions of entry for Australian cheese into the EEC market. What are those favourable conditions and for how much?  Mr Garland  continued: 
Australian primary industries will also benefit from European Economic Community concessions on some other agricultural items, including offals, meat extracts, dried fruits and certain canned fruits. 
What are the concessions and how substantial will the benefit be? He continued: 
. the interests of Australian industry have been carefully considered and the Government is convinced that the concessions which have been offered will have no detrimental effect. 
The Government assures us that whatever these concessions might be- and there is absolutely no indication of what they are- they will have no detrimental effect on Australian industry. On that point we have been given a guarantee by the Government, which guaranteed, among other things, to abolish the tax surcharge, to support Medibank, to support wage indexation, to provide jobs for all and that we would not have a globetrotting Prime Minister. Given that record, how much is that guarantee worth even if we knew what it was, which we do not.  Mr Garland  said: 
In total, this can add to the renewed confidence for planning and investment in Australia 's rural industries. 
That sounds like Phil Lynch in 1976 saying: 'Our economic policies are working'.  Mr Garland  continued: 
There is recognition on both sides that some important difficulties remain. 
I do not know whether that is true, but there is certainly a very clear recognition by the Opposition that these statements from the Prime Minister and the Minister for Special Trade Representations mean absolutely nothing. They contain absolutely no quantification, no hard facts. They are a lot of flowery rhetoric. As I said previously, they are a futile apologia for the globetrotting activities of these two Ministers and other Ministers. 
Debate interrupted. 
This Bill is also a product of the FraserHoward horror mini-Budget of 24 May. The purpose of the Bill is to ensure that any further increases by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries in oil prices will be passed on in the prices paid by Australian refiners for domestically-produced crude oil, but that the additional revenue flowing from OPEC price increases after 1 January 1979 will accrue entirely to the Government instead of, as under the previous arrangements, being shared between the Government and the Australian crude oil producers. The Government estimates that, as a result of the OPEC 1 April increase of 9.5 per cent, this measure will raise $ 166m in a full year. It is widely expected, indeed almost certain, that on 1 July there will be a further OPEC price increase of 10 per cent or thereabouts, so it is probable that over the entire year this measure will yield government revenue of some $320m or $330m. 
The history of this measure has demonstrated-if further demonstration were needed- how the Government has lost control both of the process of government and of parliamentary business. The blunder which the Government made was summed up succinctly in the current issue of the  Laurie Oakes Report  as follows: 
. The National Development Minister,  Mr Newman,  insisted on the amendments - 
The reference is to amendments which were made after the Bill had been originally introduced in the House of Representatives-  after studying the legislation on his return from an overseas trip. In an extraordinary blunder, the original legislation provided for all oil fields to be treated in the same way, even though the Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  had said in his expenditure and taxation statement to Parliament: 'The implications of these new levy arrangements on small producers and marginal fields will be kept under reveiw. ' 
To some extent the Government, in introducing this legislation, has recognised its past errors. It has implicitly recognised the foolish decisionalthough it fails to acknowledge it, of coursethat it made in the 1978 Budget when it decided that an increasing proportion of the windfall gains accruing to the production of oil from lowcost Australian fields, principally those of Bass Strait, would go to the Australian oil producers, principally Esso-BHP. The Government has decided to take a larger share of the revenue itself. 
To that extent the Opposition approves of what the Government has done, although, for reasons that I will outline, it would prefer a resource tax to apply. The Opposition also has reservations in that clearly this measure, like so many of the measures in the 1978 Budget and the 1979 autumn horror mini-Budget, will significantly increase the consumer price index and ensure that the rate of inflation will continue to rise. 
It is perhaps nice for  Mr Newman  that he should have managed to score a small victory in this matter, given not only his troubles of the last couple of weeks but also the way in which he has stumbled along in the shadow of the Australian Labor Party's shadow Minister in this area, Paul Keating.  Mr Newman  has been trying desperately to be noticed, while stumbling along in  Mr Keating  's shadow.  Mr Newman  has been able to point out, apparently, to the Government the error in the original legislation. He has certainly been noticed now, not so much for pointing out this error but for not being able to hear, or so he tells us, in the House of Representatives. We have a Ministry in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  cannot remember and  Mr Newman  cannot hear. 
This measure represents a movement away from the Government's import parity pricing policy, but it is an inferior type of tax to the resource tax which the Australian Labor Party has long advocated. A resource tax seeks to tax away the pure economic rent component of mineral and oil deposits. By economic rent I mean any return over and above that necessary to call forth the factors of production which would produce the desired or existing level of output. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was saying that in one sense the Opposition welcomes this measure insofar as it ensures that the additional windfall gains which accrue to crude oil producers from low cost Australian fields do so entirely for the public revenue rather than being divided, as was the case under the previous arrangements, between the Australian producers and the public revenue; on the other hand we have a reservation. That, of course, is that this measure, like so many other measures which were announced a fortnight ago and in the 1978 Budget, will continue to feed inflation. We also welcome the Government's tacit recognition of its error in the 1 978 Budget in allowing so much of these windfall gains to accrue, quite unjustifiably, to the Australian producers. 
This measure goes some of the way towards achieving the objectives of a resources tax, to which the Government was committed in 1977, to which the Labour Party has been committed all along but which the Government formally abandoned in the 1978 Budget. It is, however, an inferior, or, at best, a second best option to a resource tax. A resource tax seeks to tax away the pure economic rent component of profits. By definition, that is any level of productivity above that which is required to call forth sufficient investment and sufficient resources to maintain the desired or existing level of production. In place of a resource tax, which would tax away that pure economic rent component, is a quantum royalty. Quantum royalties of any type, by definition, lead at the margin to a misallocation of resources. 
Probably the easiest way of explaining that would be to use the illustration of a mine. Every mine has a cut-off grade for ore. That is the point at which a profit-maximising operator will leave ore in the ground. If any quantum royalty has to be paid, it alters the point at which a company oriented towards maximising profits sets its cut-off grade. The quantum royalty is the cost that has to be borne over and above production costs. The effect of meeting that cost is that ore which is in fact economic, which can profitably be mined and which ought to be mined, is left in the ground. Prior to any production cost being incurred the quantum royalty must be paid. The greater the quantum royalty the greater the consequential misallocation of resources. For that reason, although we regard this Bill as an improvement on the existing situation, we say that it is far from ideal. It is, at best, a second best and inferior option to the imposition of a resource tax to which the Labor Party remains committed. 
I wish briefly to make a point about petrol prices. In the last couple of days I have received some figures from the Parliamentary Library's Statistical Service. It is difficult to be precise about retail petrol prices because even within a city there is quite a wide variation in prices. But, having taken account of this difficulty, the figure given by the Library is that the retail price of super grade petrol in Melbourne in 1975 was 13.8c a litre. The price of petrol in Melbourne today is around 24c a litre. That means that the price has increased by 10c a litre since the Fraser Government came to power. As a result of this measure, which will incorporate from 1 July onwards the 1 April OPEC increase of 9.5 per cent and, almost certainly, a further 1 July increase of around 10 per cent, the price of petrol in Melbourne will rise to around 27c a litre. In other words, in  Vh  years under the Fraser Government the price of petrol will have virtually doubled. Certainly, it will have increased by 90 per cent. That is perhaps the most telling indictment of all of the oil pricing policies pursued by this Government. 
For reasons that I have stated, the Opposition will not be opposing the Bill but we express our grave concern at its effects on the consumer price index and at the fact that it will continue to push inflation to higher levels and contribute to the doubling of petrol prices in just  V/i  years. Above all, it still remains an inferior substitute for the resource tax which the Labor Party has advocated, and will continue to advocate and which we sincerely hope the Government will have the good sense to adopt before very much longer. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether he remembers  Mr Sinclair  on the radio program  AM  on 2 1 November 1977 saying: 
Our standards arc very high indeed and the standards that 1 have set I believe maintain exactly that same standards as anyone would wish a person in high public office to set. 
When can we expect the resignation of the Minister for Primary Industry? 
-That is acceptable. As the Minister probably knows, we do have amendments in respect of two of those Bills which we propose to move at the second reading stage. I will speak only briefly on this package of five Bills. The two Bills to which the Opposition will move amendments are the Bounty (Books) Amendment Bill and the Bounty (Rotary Cultivators) Bill. The purpose of the amendment we propose to move to the Bounty (Books) Amendment Bill is to reduce from 1 ,000 to 500 the minimum print run which qualifies for the bounty. The amendment we propose to move to the Bounty (Rotary Cultivators) Bill expresses concern about the Government's failure to give a satisfactory explanation of the move it is taking in introducing that legislation, in particular of why it has not implemented the full recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission when it reported on the matter. We do not oppose the other three Bills. I move the following amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bounty (Books) Amendment Bill 1979: 
At end of motion add ', but the Senate, whilst supporting bounty assistance for local printers, is of the opinion that such assistance should be provided for minimum runs of500 copies instead of the present 1,000 copies in order to aid smaller, more specialised printers who have previously been encouraged to invest in facilities through, for instance, the investment allowance, and who must be encouraged to undertake structural adjustment in more equitable and less costly and disruptive ways'. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
1 ) What actions has the Minister or his Department taken as a consequence of Resolution 10 of the Australian Fisheries Council concerning limitations to live aquarium fish imports. 
) When will such measures be implemented. 
On what legislative authority will they be implemented. 
I am prompted to speak on the first reading of these Bills by an English Tory troglodyte called Lord Hailsham, who has written a foreword to the English edition of John Kerr's  Matters for Judgment.  An edited version of Hailsham 's apologia for Kerr is printed in today's Melbourne  Age.  Normally the senile prejudices - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) Did the Minister earlier this year, either alone or in conjunction with other Ministers and after conferring with the Secretary of the Treasury and/or other senior Treasury officials and/or the Governor and/or other senior officials of the Reserve Bank, agree to prevent the Reserve Bank's Rural Credits Department advancing sufficient funds to the Australian Wheat Board to enable the Board to meet its obligations to pay the first advance on all 1 978-79 season wheat received from wheatgrowers. 
Was it intended that the Wheat Board borrow the rest of the money required to meet its obligations to wheatgrowers from the trading banks. 
Firstly, I wish to explain the procedures which the Opposition intends to follow on the five Bills which are before us. The first three Bills listed on the business paper are a package which seeks to increase the levy imposed on slaughtered livestock for the purpose of financing the tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication campaign. The Opposition will be opposing those three Bills. We intend to call a division on at least the first of those three Bills. The remaining two Bills extend to bobby calves and lighter cattle the existing levy on livestock slaughter which is imposed to finance the administration of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation and that Corporation's meat promotion activities. The Opposition will not be opposing those two Bills. So although we are debating these Bills cognately - 

 - Mr President, I am happy with that if that procedure is acceptable. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 28 Feburary 1979: 
Has: (a) the General Manager; (b) the Chairman; or (c) any member of the Australian Wheat Board protested to the Minister since 1 January 1979, seeking to change a plan by the Government, and/or the Treasury and/or the Reserve Bank, to finance part of the 1978-79 season first advance from sources other than the Reserve Bank Rural Credits Department, if so, when was any such protest made, and by whom. 
Again I will be very brief. These two Bills, neither of which the Opposition is opposing, authorise some changes in tariffs and excise which have already taken place from about 10 May onwards. They will also authorise changes in tariffs and excise which may take place between now and about the middle of November. The legislation seeks to authorise those changes within a six months period. As I said, the Opposition does not oppose either of these Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time, and passed through their remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert: the Senate declines to give the Bill a second reading until the Government gives a satisfactory explanation, inter alia, as to- 
why the Government considered that the level of short-term assistance on the production and sale in Australia of pedestrian operated rotary cultivators which was recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission might not be adequate; 
why the Senate was not informed that the Government had rejected the recommendations of the Commission relatingto this matter; and 
why the Minister in his second reading speech did not explain the reasons for deciding on a bounty which is double the rate recommended by the Commission '. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The purpose of these Bills is to close a loophole in the existing levy applied on wine, the major purpose of which is to fund the Australian Wine Board in its administration and promotion activities. Because of changing technology in the wine industry a great deal of grape juice can now be held in store for a considerable length of time and then either processed into wine or passed on to another wine maker. Some of the wine processed in this way has been escaping the levy. I think that it follows logically that if the levy is justifiable it ought to be paid by all the people who produce the product. For that reason, the Opposition does not oppose the Bills. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in his second reading speech in the House of Representatives referred to an inquiry which is presently going on into the operations of the Wine Board. A number of important criticisms have been made of the Board by members and senators from both sides of the Parliament, particularly in the last year.  Senator Douglas  McClelland made such a criticism last September. In view of the limitations on time and the fact that the inquiry to which I have referred is taking place, it is probably not necessary for me to go into much detail about the matter. 
Another matter which ought to be raised in relation to these Bills concerns the possibility of a wine tax in the next Budget and the draft report of the Industries Assistance Commission which was released a couple of weeks ago. If the Government accepts the recommendation of the IAC inquiry into grapes and wine it is likely that a tax on wine in some form or other will be imposed in the August Budget although the Government may decide to wait for the final report before acting. Leaving aside any argument about whether such a tax is justified, serious doubts are again raised about the credibility of the Minister for Primary Industry. Last December in the South Australian Riverland the Minister gave an unequivocal assurance to grape growers that there would be no tax on wine. I quote from an article in the  Australian Financial Review of 20  December. It stated: 
Speaking at a wine and brandy industry meeting in Renmark, South Australia,  Mr Sinclair  said the Federal Government had no such idea in mind - 
That is, a tax on wine. The article continued: 
This suggestion is irresponsible and reflects no real understanding of the serious problems the Riverland grape growers and others throughout Australia face', he said. 
In the horror Budget at the end of May we saw two other unequivocal assurances which had been given by  Mr Sinclair  abandoned, namely his absolute guarantees that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty would be maintained and that there would be no meat export inspection charges. The growers in the Riverland and other wine producing areas of Australia to which  Mr Sinclair  referred have every reason to feel very nervous. The absolute guarantees of the Minister for Primary Industry in other instances have been shown to be worth nothing.  His  guarantee to the Riverland wine producers may yet be shown to be equally worthless. I sound those words of warning to wine producers. 
I will outline the procedure which the Opposition will follow. These Bills are being debated cognately. We are not opposing the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill. We will be moving an amendment to the second reading stage of the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill. I will speak only briefly. Those who noted the comments of  Mr Hurford  in the House of Representatives with respect to the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill will have seen that he suggested that some sort of parliamentary committee ought to replace the present unsatisfactory practice under which changes in tariffs and excise which have already occurred are retrospectively validated by the Parliament without any real examination. 
The purpose of the two Bills is to validate changes in tariff and excise which occurred up until the early part of May this year. The Customs Tariff Validation Bill and the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) which appear at the bottom of the business sheet will provide provisional validation for subsequent changes in tariffs and excise. I refer now to the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill. Since it is a component of the Government's crude oil pricing policy which has been the subject of strong, sustained and justified criticism by the Opposition for a long time, I move: 
At end of the motion add ', but the Senate is ofthe opinion that the Government's crude oil pricing policy has imposed a severe burden on the Australian public by way of rapidly increasing petrol prices and through its adverse effects on Australia's inflation and unemployment rates and should be reviewed '. 
The Government's oil pricing policy has been to some extent reviewed. I repeat that under this Government the price of petrol at the bowser will have, by July or August of this year, doubled in three years. The 1978 changes to the earlier crude oil pricing policy are directly responsible for inflation running at higher levels now than it was a year ago and will be responsible almost certainly for inflation running at higher levels over the next 1 2 months. The Government has recognised in its horror Budget changes some of the weaknesses of its policy and it has modified it. But is has not modified that policy to the extent which we believe it should have. Consequently, we have moved our amendment. 
-The Opposition is opposing this Bill which seeks to implement the decision announced during the 24 May horror Budget to impose a tariff of 2 per cent on nearly all imports previously free from tariff. The Bill, as it now stands somewhat amended, is less obnoxious than the original Bill which was introduced in the House of Representatives on 24 May. That Bill was amended by the Government after debate on it had almost been completed in the Committee stage which is a testimony to the hasty and ill-considered nature of the legislation. Last year's Budget, of course, was rewritten more times than most people can remember and now we seem to have the same spectacle with this mini-Budget or horror Budget. It will be recalled that the excise Bill which implemented the new crude oil levy arrangements also had to be redrafted at the last minute. Of course, the Ministers responsible for this legislation have had a number of other things on their minds in recent times. It is just as well there is no more primary industry legislation in the pipeline. This, of course, is a case of desperation move after desperation move by a desperation government. 
The principal reason we are opposing the Bill is that it will unquestionably be inflationary. In its original form the Government estimated it would add $80m to the cost of imports which would add directly about 0.15 per cent to the final consumption expenditure and it could be expected to add something considerably more than 0.15 per cent to the consumer price index over the next 12 months because of its indirect effects on production costs and also because it is likely to lead to price increases among competitive domestically produced goods. It applies to an enormous range of goods, from raw fish to aeroplanes. The reason given by the Government for the change is the Florence Agreement to which Australia is not a signatory but the terms of which evidently the Government feels obliged to honour. A number of commodities to which the Government originally proposed that its 2 per cent import tariff would be applied are exempt under the terms of that agreement. 
This draws attention again to the hastily and ill considered nature of this move, this further desperation move by a desperate government. It makes Australia also look hypocritical- not that there is anything unusual about that these days. A week before the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  was made on this matter the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was grandstanding in Manila, lecturing the rest of the world about the virtues of removing barriers to trade. When he returned to Australia he did the opposite. As has so often happened with this Prime 
Minister and this Government, their public statements and actions are mutually exclusive. 
Yes, deception. If it is not conscious deception then it is certainly deception. In the joint communique issued with the  President  of the Philippines on 1 1 May, the Prime Minister said that it was of critical importance to achieve significant reductions to barriers in world trade. Yet as soon as he returned to Australia we find his Treasurer and his Government announcing another new tax which imposes a further barrier to world trade. At this rate the Prime Minister's credibility will be as low abroad as it is at home, if it is not already. 
The last time I checked his credibility it showed about 20 per cent of the people believed the things he was saying. I imagine after the last few weeks the number will have declined to single figures. Probably it will be even lower than the inflation rate. The Opposition opposes this Bill for the reasons I have stated. The Bill is a desperate measure by this desperate Government. It was searching around for any means possible to raise additional revenue. Obviously inadequate thought was given before the Government implemented it, evidenced by the fact the Government had to amend the items which are covered. As with virtually all the changes made in the 24 May horror Budget, it will add to inflation, the containment of which has been the declared primary objective of this Government ever since it came to office; an objective initially in which it had some success but in which it is now failing. That completes the total pattern of failure of this Government under this Prime Minister. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 27 February 1979: 
Has (a) the General Manager; (b) the Chairman; or (c) any member of the Australian Wheat Board protested to the Prime Minister since 1 January 1979, seeking to change a plan by the Government and/or the Treasury and/or the Reserve Bank, to finance part of the 1978-79 season first advance from sources other than the Reserve Bank Rural Credits Department; if so, when were any such protests made, and by whom. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 27 February 1979: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister earlier this year, either alone or in conjunction with other Ministers and after conferring with the Secretary of the Treasury and /or other senior Treasury officials and/or the Governor and/or other senior officials of the Reserve Bank, agree to prevent the Reserve Bank's Rural Credits Department advancing sufficient funds to the Australian Wheat Board to enable the Board to meet its obligation to pay the first advance on all 1978-79 season wheat received from wheatgrowers. 
Was it intended that the Wheat Board borrow the rest of the money required to meet its obligation to wheatgrowers from the trading banks. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 27 February 1979: 
1 ) Were first advance payments to Australian wheatgrowers delayed earlier this year because the Reserve Bank's Rural Credits Department refused to advance to the Australian Wheat Board sufficient funds to meet its obligation to pay the first advance on all 1978-79 season wheat received from growers. 
On whose authority or instructions did the Reserve Bank refuse further advances to the Wheat Board. 
Did the Reserve Bank later make available to the Australian Wheat Board sufficient funds to honour its obligation to pay the first advance on all wheat received from wheatgrowers. 
On whose authority or instructions did the Reserve Bank reverse its earlier policy. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
1 ) Does the statement by the Minister for Primary Industry that 'Some banks have apparently taken greater advantage of the Primary Industry Bank of Australia facility than others and consequently they have used up their share of the apportioned money' (see House of Representatives Hansard, 3 May 1979, page 1 802 ) mean that clients of those banks have no chance of getting loans at this stage; if so, will the Minister make an immediate statement to that effect, so that potential borrowers will know where they stand, and how long this situation will last. 
On what basis, by whom and when, and in what amounts were the total PIBA funds apportioned to trading banks and other agents as the Minister's statement indicates. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 May 1 979: 
Will payment by individuals and companies for advertisements and publication of notices in the program of the First Australasian Conference of Pro-Life Emergency Pregnancy Support Service be tax-deductible, as claimed by the organisers. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
1 ) What person or organisation is liable for the costs incurred for television and other advertising for the  Sir Robert  Menzies Memorial Trust. 
What are the details of advertising costs incurred so far. 
Was an advertising agency engaged to publicise the Trust; if so, which one. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
1 ) What person or organisation is liable to pay the costs of travel undertaken by relatives of  Sir Robert  Menzies, such as his niece,  Mrs Judy  Kuehne, and other people, in order to attend functions connected with the launching of the  Sir Robert  Menzies Memorial Trust. 
What are the names of all people for whom such travel costs have been, or will be, paid; and what travel did each person undertake. 
What was the cost of all travel undertaken by each person, and was the travel first-class or economy class. 
What travelling allowances or expenses were paid to each person. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce: 
All factors relevant to the supply of Avgas in Australia.  QUESTIONS WITHOUT NOTICE 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
1 ) Do laws exist in each State and Territory which would restrict or control the breeding for commercial or other purposes of those aquarium fish which are currently available, but which would become illegal imports upon the adoption of the 'List of Species and Genera of Aquarium Fishes Proposed for Continued Importation'; if so, what are they; if not, will the effectiveness of restrictions of live fish imports be diminished. 
Has the Minister or his Department or any other Government agency consulted with the State Governments with a view to making State laws consistent with the proposed import restrictions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
1 ) Does Telecom intend to retrench staff employed at the manual exchange, Northam, WA, in June 1979 and to close the exchange completely in 1981; if so, will the Minister undertake to ensure that the present staff will be given the option of transferring to other manual exchanges or suitable equivalent employment with Telecom. 
If retrenchments are to occur, what notice will be given, and what criteria will apply in determining which staff are to be retrenched first. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) When did the Minister's Department discover that on two occasions  Mrs Rosemary  Sinclair had mistakenly charged hire cars to the Department of Administrative Services, as stated in the Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 1 173 (see  Hansard,  8 May 1979, page 1709). 
When was each of these accounts received by his Department. 
What was the amount of each account. 
When did the Minister for Primary Industry personally pay each account. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 4 June 1 979: 
1 ) What is the proposed function of the ' Duress Alarm System' recently installed in Admiralty House, Sydney, as notified in the Commonwealth of Australia  Gazette  G21, page 50 (Tender No. NQ 565). 
Why was such a system not thought necessary during the occupancy of  Sir John  Kerr at Admiralty House. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
Were funds from the sale of the Army Rifle Range at Geraldton, Western Australia, placed in trust to be used as a contribution towards a new rifle range; if so: 
on what conditions will these funds be made available; and 
b) will these funds be made available for a new site currently being considered at Grenough, Western Australia, if approval is given for it. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government. I remind him that he has in the past told the Senate that the proper way in which to compare statistics over time because of changes in money values is as a proportion of the gross domestic product. I ask him whether he remembers the Prime Minister, during the 1977 election campaign, on 25 November to be precise, saying: 
We have taken the view that a reduction in the personal tax burden is essential to economic recovery and boosting job opportunities. 
Does the Minister know that the Estimates presented in last night's Budget show that personal income tax as a proportion of GDP will increase from 12.62 per cent last year to 13.27 per cent this year and that the total taxation will increase to 24.43 per cent, which will be a record level? In view of those facts, does the Government believe what the Prime Minister said it believed in 1977 or has it abdicated all responsibility for fostering economic recovery and boosting employment opportunities? 
A month ago the Government said that it would come clean, it would stop telling lies to the public and it would start telling the truth. It said that it would put before the public honestly and objectively the realities of the Australian economic situation and the difficulties that the country was facing. It is a pity that senior Ministers in the Government could not act in accordance with those standards. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was exposed on the  AM  program this morning, by someone quite disinterested in party politics- the secretary of the Australian Taxpayers Association - as misrepresenting the facts about his alleged tax cuts which are in fact a tax increase.  Senator Carrick  has just presented a specious, partly irrelevant and certainly misrepresented defence of the Government's high tax policies. I repeat that they are the highest taxes that any government has ever imposed on the Australian people.  Senator Carrick  had the audacity to challenge  Senator Wriedt  's credibility. I know  Senator Wriedt  's credibility in the community to be very high. The Prime Minister's credibility stands at 27 per cent. That is how many people believe what the Prime Minister says. 
The Prime Minister leads a Government- and  Senator Carrick  leads that same Government in the Senate- which was elected almost four years ago on the basis of a number of solemn undertakings to the Australian people. Among other things, it promised propriety in government. Since then we have seen eight Ministers sacked, and three more sackings are in the pipeline. The Prime Minister's own relatives cannot keep their sticky fingers out of the public purse. They secured improperly $50,000 loans at a rate of interest of 4 per cent. The Government promised jobs for all. Since then unemployment has doubled. It promised lower interest rates. They are going up. It promised lower inflation. For a couple of years it went part of the way to keeping that undertaking, but now even this Government admits that inflation is going up. It has doubled the price of petrol. The Prime Minister said that we did not need a tourist as a Prime Minister. Now he takes off every three months on his latest overseas jaunt in the luxury aircraft he has purchased for $ 1 4m at the taxpayers' expense. 
I have just been handed one of this afternoon's newspapers. 'Tax Sting', it says, 'You will pay more'. At last the Press has got it right. 'Tax Row on Budget', it says. 'Expert says it is a 27 per cent rise for some'. The expert in question, of course, is  Mr Risstrom.  The Prime Minister promised that there would be no more jobs for the boys. How many failed Liberal politicians have we seen put into positions in the Public Service since then? It is no wonder that the Fraser Government has such a poor opinion of the Public Service, since it is now stacked with so many of its cast-offs. Yet  Senator Carrick  has the audacity to talk about  Senator Wriedt  's credibility. I am told by my learned colleague  Senator Button  that Sigmund Freud once described neuroticism as 'an abnormal obsession with the past'.  Senator Carrick  certainly displayed an abnormal obsession with the fairly distant past in his attempt to defend this Government's tax rip-off policies. We heard a great deal about the Whitlam Government. We did not hear very much about the levels of taxation which this Government is imposing and has just increased. But I guess that those whose position in the present is untenable find it much more comfortable to dwell in the past. 
Numerous examples of the Government's duplicity on this question of taxation are on the public record. I will quote just a few. On 25 November 1977, during the 1977 election campaign, on the subject of taxation generally the Prime Minister said: 
Let me talk for a moment about taxation because it has become the major issue of this election campaign. The differences between the two parties on taxation reveal the fundamental contrast between the philosophies of the Government and  Mr Whitlam  's Labor Party. We have taken the view that a reduction in the personal tax burden is essential to economic recovery and to boosting job opportunities. 
I will repeat that: 
We have taken the view that a reduction in the personal tax burden is essential to economic recovery and to boosting job opportunities. 
Earlier this afternoon, when asked whether the Government still believed that, in characteristic style  Senator Carrick  dodged the question. The fact is that total Federal Government tax payable, that is, personal plus indirect, as a proportion of gross domestic product, according to the estimates in last night's Budget, will hit 24.43 per cent. That is the highest it has ever been. Personal income tax- tax on individuals- rises from 1 2.62 per cent of gross domestic product last year to 13.27 per cent this year. They are the hard facts of the Government's latest tax rip-off. They are the condensed facts. This leads to only two possible conclusions: Either the Government does not believe what  Mr Fraser  was saying in 1977-1 guess that since nobody else seems to believe  Mr Fraser  there is no longer any particular reason why the Government should believe him- or it has completely abdicated its responsibility, to use the Prime Minister's words in 1977, to promote economic recovery and boost job opportunities. 
This afternoon we heard a lot of prevarication from  Senator Carrick  about the appropriate methodology for comparing changes in tax levels over a period. Only by avoiding the issue can the Government put up any defence at all. But, unfortunately for him, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  in a speech which he delivered in Perth on 30 April, said: 
We must Tully understand the facts and not the fiction about the actual level of taxation in Australia. The most recent OECD analysis of comparative tax levels for the year 1976 ranks Australia 17th amongst the 24 member countries when the total taxation is measured at a percentage of the GDP. 
That is the appropriate method for making comparisons on taxation, so the Treasurer said on 30 April, and in that instance the Treasurer was correct. If we look at the question of tax indexation, we see that the Fraser Government has reneged on its election promise in two respects. Firstly, it has reneged in respect of the absolute level of taxation, which has gone up. Secondly, it has reneged on what it once claimed was a solemn promise to keep governments honest by indexing the tax schedule. 
It is well known that if there is a general increase in prices and incomes and the tax schedule remains unchanged, the proportion of income paid in tax increases. Not only the amount increases but also the proportion paid in tax increases. For that reason, the Government and particularly the Prime Minister said- during election campaigns he says these things- that governments have to be kept honest. He said, We will introduce full tax indexation and we will keep it'. He said in his 1975 policy speech, which is a good place to start, that 'the implementation of personal tax indexation will be completed within three years'. He then listed a number of points. I will not read all of them but they included the claim that failure to adjust the progressive income tax schedule for the effects of inflation would lead to an acceleration in the rate of wage increases. The Prime Minister said that personal income tax indexation would be introduced because if this were not done it would lead to an acceleration in the rate of wage increases. 
The Government claims to be perturbed about wage increases which it asserts are the cause of inflation and says that to restrain excessive increases in wages, indexation must be introduced. The Government formally abandoned wage indexation last night. What is the Government's policy? The Prime Minister said during the election campaign that 'the public has a right to know when taxes are being raised and governments should be subject to the financial discipline of introducing explicit legislation to this end'. If the Government still believed that, it would have indexed the tax schedule last night, retained the tax surcharge and gained a comparable amount of revenue. It chose to do the opposite. Why did it choose to do the opposite? It did so because it thought it could more effectively deceive the public by abolishing the tax surcharge, which is something easier to understand, and retaining the existing tax schedule- in other words, abandoning indexation. Of course, it has not worked. 
I have quoted already from the afternoon newspapers. Even the public understands what has happened. The headlines in this afternoon's newspapers are worth repeating. In four inch banner headlines, one newspaper states, 'Tax sting, you will pay more'. Another afternoon newspaper says, 'Tax row on budget'. Again, in four inch headlines, it states, 'Expert says "it's a 27 per cent rise for some" '. The expert in question is  Mr Risstrom,  the secretary of the Taxpayers Association. The Government thought that it was going to get away with it. I am pleased to see that it has not got away with it and it will not get away with it. 
The subject of tax indexation was raised also during the 1977 election campaign. The Prime Minister always becomes most self-righteous on this question during election campaigns. He said, 
It is quite clear that the Labor Party would abolish what is called tax indexation'. He went on to tell us, in other words, that if Labor were in office it would greatly increase the personal income tax the public must pay. We were told that a Labor Government would not do this in an open way through legislation but by stealth. The Prime Minister said that the Labor Party would increase taxation by stealth- that is, as incomes increased through inflation it would take a higher proportion of them in tax. That is exactly what the Prime Minister did last night. That is exactly what  Senator Carrick  supported this afternoon. Whoever follows him in this debate will also swallow his pride and principles, I daresay, and support the Prime Minister. The Government has increased tax by stealth. Let us have a look at the magnitude of those increases. 
I have prepared tables and I invite the Minister to examine them before I seek leave to incorporate them in  Hansard  The table dealing with personal income tax shows that a single person receiving an income of $140 a week, and anticipating the wage increases which the Government forecast in last night's Budget, will be paying an extra $4 a week in tax throughout this financial year. The proportion of that person's income paid in tax will rise from  5Vt  per cent to almost 17 per cent. The position is repeated right through the income scale up to $200 a week. Someone receiving an income of $200 a week last year will be paying $6 a week more in tax this year. Taxation, as a proportion of that person's income, will increase from just under 21 per cent to just under 22 per cent. That applies at all levels of income. Perhaps the most reprehensible aspect of all is that the increases apply most severely to those on the lower levels of income. The proportion of income paid in tax will increase by the greatest amount for those on lower incomes. So much for the individual. 
If we look at aggregates, we see exactly the same thing. This Government, which claimed to be a low tax government, is imposing in total Commonwealth taxes this year what, on its own estimate, amounts to 24.43 per cent of the gross domestic product. The total tax incorporates the Government's massive rip-off in oil prices- that is, its petrol taxing policy which has doubled the price of petrol and given the Government an extra $ 1,000m. That is the highest level of taxation as a proportion of gross domestic product which any government has ever imposed on Australia in peacetime. The tax on individuals, at 13.27 per cent, is the highest ever imposed by any government in Australia in peacetime other than that imposed by the Fraser Government in one previous year. So the Government has broken its own record in total taxation and has almost equalled its own record in personal income tax. That is the subject of this debate. It is not just the level of taxation; it is also the fact that in this area, as in so many other areas, the Fraser Government's promises in 1975 and 1977 have been shown to be totally worthless. Not only has it broken its promise in respect of increasing taxation; it has done it in what the Government itself previously defined as a dishonest manner. 
I seek leave to have two tables incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="082232197908221_25_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="082232197908221_25_3.jpg"></graphic>

I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether he is aware of the Prime Minister's letter to the Premiers of 1 2 July in which the Prime Minister stated, among other things: 
I must reiterate that the Commonwealth considers that the current guarantee formula is too generous. 
Does the Minister remember his own unqualified assurance of 27 April 1976 that payments to the States under federalism would increase by more than 58 per cent in real terms? Which of those mutually exclusive statements represents Government policy? 
Having heard yet another harangue from  Senator Carrick  on the subject of Fraser federalism, I have a proposition to put to himthat he ask  Mr Tonkin,  the South Australian Liberal Party leader, whether  Mr Tonkin  will give  Senator Carrick  an invitation to participate heavily in the South Australian election campaign and to preach the virtues of a double income tax on behalf of the Liberal Party during that election campaign. 
Australian Labor Party; in nobody else's mind at all. That is a figment and an invention of the Labor Party. 
What is the invention of the Australian Labor Party? Since  Senator Carrick  seems to think that the proposition that the States should impose an income tax is an invention of the Labor Party, I direct his attention to the document published by his Party. At least, that is what it says on the front of the document. It says 'The Liberal and National Country Parties'. The document is entitled 'Federalism Policy', which was published in 1975. It refers in a number of instances to the States ultimately imposing an income tax and taking over the functions previously funded by specific purpose payments from the Commonwealth. I notice that although  Senator Carrick  was anxious to respond to what he claims was some misrepresentation of fact, fabrication or hallucination by the Labor Party when it is printed in the document which bears the name of his Party and its coalition partner he did not tell us whether he intends to go to South Australia and campagin on behalf of the Liberal Party on the federalism policy. He still has not told us whether he intends to, but I do not expect that he would be welcomed by  Mr Tonkin  if he chose to do so. 
I have been astounded yet again by  Senator Carrick  's capacity for self-delusion which enables him to believe still that income taxes are lower this year than they were last year; that the Fraser Government's economic policies are working; and which also enables him to believe that the federalism policy is still alive. Federalism basically had two objectives. The first was that what is currently known and has long been known as general revenue payments for the States would be replaced by a tax sharing system under which the States received each year a designated percentage of federal income taxation. The second objective was that the specific purpose payments, the section 96 grants, would be gradually phased out and that the States would fund those areas of expenditure from State income taxes. The tax sharing formula is irrelevant. Last year the grants to all the States were determined not by the tax year and formula but by the betterment factor and the guarantees incorporated under the Whitlam Government legislation of, I think, 1 974. The tax sharing formula is irrelevant. It is dead. The State income taxes have not been imposed, because the Federal Goverment, notwithstanding all its windy rhetoric, has lacked the political courage to withdraw from specific purpose payments to an extent sufficient to force any State government to impose a State income tax. 
We heard from  Senator Carrick  a great deal about the past. He quoted what  Mr Dunstan  said in 1974 and what  Mr Whitlam  said in 'Labor and the Constitution', which was published in 1957. This perhaps gives one justification for repeating what I mentioned yesterday. Sigmund Freud 's definition of neuroticism was an abnormal obsession with the past.  Senator Carrick  certainly displayed such an abnormal obsession again today. Perhaps it is not really an abnormal obsession. Perhaps it is just that the present is so unpleasant for  Senator Carrick  and that his position at present on this issue, as with taxation in general, is so untenable that it is much more comfortable to dwell in the past. 
I found his logic somewhat eccentric when he was quoting  Mr Dunstan  from 1974, I think it was, and thought that he was refuting  Senator Wriedt  's assertion- which  Senator Wriedt  backed up with a great deal of statistical evidence; it was not just an assertion- that the States had been significantly worse off financially since the Fraser Government came into power then they were under the last Labor Government. To rebut that argument  Senator Carrick  was quoting what  Mr Dunstan  said in 1974, when  Mr Dunstan  could not possibly have known anything about what the Fraser Government's financial policies for the States were going to be. In fact, at that stage he did not even know that there was going to be a Fraser Government, because I remember at that time the Liberal Party was declaring its undying loyalty to  Mr Snedden.  But that is certainly irrelevant. I am quite certain that  Mr Dunstan,  whatever his opinions of the financial policies of the then Labor Government may have been in 1974, certainly knows better now than to believe that they were the harshest financial policies imposed by a Federal Government. He now knows that the financial squeeze imposed by the Fraser Government has been very severe. As I shall demonstrate shortly, there was no squeeze at all under the Labor Government. 

 Senator Carrick, both during this debate and the question period which preceded it, was still claiming that the States were financially squeezed under Labor, just as he still claims that income tax is lower this year than it was last year. On 18 July 1976 the then Treasurer in the Liberal Government- the Treasurer of course being that famous entrepreneur,  Mr Phillip  Lynchsaid in a Press statement: 
. that complaints by some States about their dire financial position sounded a little odd against the promises made in the recent State elections. 
That was  Mr Lynch  in 1976 talking about the financial positions of the States pursuant to the policies in the last Labor Federal Budget.  Mr Lynch  went on to say, and I suggest that  Senator Carrick  pays particular attention to this: 
Over the five years to 1975-76, the annual growth in State budget expenditures had averaged over 20 per cent; it had exceeded the growth in Commonwealth Budget expenditures (excluding payments to the States) over the same period. At the same time, payments by the Commonwealth to the States had grown much faster than other Commonwealth outlays. 
He continued: 
In 1975-76-- .  that was the last Labor Budget, remember-  payments to the States increased by over 30 per cent, compared with an increase of about 17 per cent in other Commonwealth Budget outlays. 
That was the Treasurer in the Liberal Government describing the financial deal which the States got in the last Labor Government Budget, the Budget which  Senator Carrick  claims imposed financial hardships on the States. What has happened since? Remember  Mr Lynch  's comparison: Increases in Commonwealth payments to the States compared with increases in other Commonwealth outlays. What do this year's Budget Papers show for the four Fraser Government Budgets? Increases in 1976-77 outlays on Commonwealth functions only, 12.5 per cent; increases in State grants, 6.9 per cent. For the next year, 1977-78, Commonwealth functions expenditure increased by 18.1 per cent; grants to the States increased by 1 1.8 per cent. In 1978-79, Commonwealth functions only increased by 10.5 per cent; grants to the States increased by 4.8 per cent. The estimate for this year is 10.6 per cent increase in Commonwealth functions only expenditure, and 6.6 per cent in grants to the States. In other words, over that four year period Commonwealth only expenditures have increased at almost double the rate of grants to the States. That is the very comparison which the Liberal Party Treasurer made in 1 976. I state it once again in the hope that  Senator Carrick  hears it and even comprehends it: 
In 1975-76 payments to the States increased by over 30 per cent compared with an increase of about 1 7 per cent - 
-In 1975-76, in the last Labor Federal Budget, payments to the States increased by 30 per cent. Expenditure in other Commonwealth Budget outlays increased by only 1 7 per cent. In other words, in the last Labor 
Budget, the States were getting increases in funds at about double the rate of other Commonwealth expenditure. 
I would suggest that the honourable senator should not display yet again his arithmetical ignorance. In this sort of comparison the rate of inflation is irrelevant, because what is being compared is a rate of increase in particular types of expenditure in the same year. No matter what the rate of inflation is, it makes absolutely no difference to this comparison. In the last Labor Budget, payments to the States were increasing at double the rate of other Commonwealth expenditures. In the four Fraser Government Budgets, other Commonwealth expenditures have been increasing at double the rate of payments to the States. That is the factual position. To sum up and to look at the whole period, in the three years of the Whitlam Government the increase in payments to the States in real terms, and that, I would suggest to  Senator Carrick,  means having been adjusted for inflation, was 58 per cent. 
A number of extravagant claims were made about federalism before and after the 1 975 election. The most spectacular of all these claims, ironically enough, was made by  Senator Carrick  himself. On 27 April 1 976, in response to a question as to whether the States would be better off financially under federalism than they had under the previous arrangements, and having had pointed out to him that that meant that they had to get an increase in real terms in excess of 58 per cent,  Senator Carrick  said: 
In response to  Senator Walsh,  my answer is an unqualified yes. The arrangements under federalism will be more generous for the States. 
I interpolate here from the Prime Minister's letter of 1 2 July 1 977 to the Premiers: 
I must reiterate that the Commonwealth considers that the current guarantee formula is too generous. 
That, of course, is the present Government's real belief about the States and finances to the States; the Government believes that they should be reduced. But that is not what  Senator Carrick  was saying three years ago when he said: 
All Premiers have expressed at 2 Premiers Conferences their considerable approval. 
He went on to say: 
What is going to happen in the next few years is precisely what I told  Senator Wriedt,  that is, that we will ensure that at no time shall the payments to the States- the amount of money which goes to the States- fall below that which would have happened had the pre-existing formula persisted over that period. 
As far as a portion of Commonwealth funds is concerned, that has been true. He continued: 
Our belief is very substantial that with the growth rate of Australia, with a return to full employment, and with the abatement of inflation, there will be considerably more funds to the people- 
He was saying this in 1976, and  Senator James  McClelland interjected 'What about tax indexation'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd: (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd: (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd: (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; (f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) What procedures and guidelines are followed by the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council in allocating funds for research projects. 
Are applicants for funding able to supplement their applications orally; if so, on whose initiative does this occur. 
3 ) Are applicants provided with a statement of the reason for the acceptance or rejection of their proposals. 
What is the scale of priorities applied by the Council when determining which projects should be funded. 
Who determines these priorities. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. He is no doubt aware that the Prime Minister in an interview published in the  Age  on Saturday said: 
Obviously, as people's income rises, they expect to pay tax on the additional dollars they earn. 
Other Ministers, including  Senator Carrick  himself, have attempted to excuse the higher tax rates applying this year in similar terms. Does the Minister know whether the Prime Minister had in mind an increase in money income or real income? If the latter is the case, does the Government expect real incomes to increase this year? If the former is the case, does the Government believe that people with higher money incomes only should pay a higher proportion of that income in tax? Is it not a fact that everyone who receives the money income increases forecast in the Budget but who has the same real income will pay a higher proportion in tax this year than was paid last year? 
-Since 1972 at least, the Minister for Primary Industry, Ian Sinclair, has been a shareholder and director of Allan Walsh Pty Ltd and Allan Walsh (Hornsby) Pty Ltd. Each of these companies has an issued capital of 10,003 shares. One of those shares is held by Ian Sinclair, one by Allan Vincent Walsh, one by John Howard McGee- that was prior to his death- and 10,000 by Reliance Investments Pty Ltd. The Sinclair Pastoral Co. holds one-third of the shares in Reliance Investments. The Sinclair Pastoral Co. has 20,000 shares, 14,000 of which are held by Ian Sinclair. Until his death, 5,000 were held by George Sinclair. Three hundred shares are held by Fiona Anne Sinclair, 400 shares are held by Knox McCahon Sinclair and 300 shares are held by Jane Margaret Sinclair. Presumably, George Sinclair's 5,000 shares have been inherited by his son, Ian, the sole beneficiary of George Sinclair's estate. But with or without those shares, Ian Sinclair is the major individual shareholder in the two Walsh companies and has been since at least 1972. 
Under sections 158 and 160 of the New South Wales Companies Act, Ian Sinclair signed, as a director, annual returns for both companies. Forms were lodged in the office of the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission for both companies on these dates: 3 1 January 1973 for 1972; 1 February 1974 for 1973; 31 January 1975 for 1974; 12 April 1976 for 1975; and 22 August 1977 for the period up to 15 July 1977. Under sections 158 and 160 of the Companies Act, amended returns for Allan Walsh Pty Ltd for 1973, 1974 and 1975 and for Allan Walsh (Hornsby) for 1972, 1973, 1974 and 1975 were lodged at the CAC office on 23 September 1977. The amended returns were signed by Ian Sinclair as a director making a certificate pursuant to section 162 ( 10) of the Companies Act and as principal accounting officer making a certificate pursuant to section 162 ( 12) of the Companies Act. The certificate issued in accordance with section 162 (12), signed by Ian Sinclair and lodged on 23 September 1977, states: 
Subject to the notes attached to the financial accounts to the best or my knowledge and belief, the accompanying balance sheet and profit and loss account give a true and fair view of the matters required by section 162 of the Companies Act. Note S in each of the financial accounts under the heading ' Losses by Misappropriation ' states: 
Following an examination of the company's records for the year ended - 
In each of the years the appropriate year appears in that spot-   it has been ascertained that certain payments made during the year were paid without the knowledge or approval of the directors, either directly or indirectly, to or for the benefit of a person employed by the company. 
These payments totalled $71,256 for Allan Walsh and $175,490 for Allan Walsh (Hornsby). On 23 September 1977, Ian Sinclair also lodged with the Corporate Affairs Commission a return for Allan Walsh (Hornsby) Pty Ltd for the 1976 year, and made up to 15 July 1 977. It revealed further losses by misappropriation for the year ending 30 June 76 of $18,285. The total misappropriation from both companies thus disclosed on 23 August 77 was $265,031. Note 3 attached to the return for Allan Walsh (Hornsby) for the 1 976 year states: 
Note 3: Provision for Taxation (See Addendum Note (8)). 
On the basis that losses by misappropriation are allowable as a deduction from assessable income for taxation purposes provision for taxation for the year has been assessed at $15,976.87 and an additional provision of $6,375.00 has been provided out of accumulated profits in respect of an adjustment of profits of previous years relating to losses by misappropriation made up as follows: 

<graphic href="082232197908280_65_0.jpg"></graphic>

No provision has been made in the financial accounts for additional primary tax which may be payable in respect of prior years up to and including the year ended 30th June, 1971. 
No provision has been made in the financial accounts for the liability (if any) for the company to pay additional tax under Division 7 of the Income Tax Act for prior years up to and including the year ended 30th June, 1 976. 
Addendum 8, which was referred to in brackets at the commencement of Note 3, states: 
Note (B) : Taxation (Addendum to Note 3). 
Since lodgment of the company's income tax return for the year ended 30th June 1976, notification has been received from the income tax office that losses by misappropriation claimed in the return under section 5 1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act have or will be disallowed as a deduction from assessable income in that year and that assessment for  primary taxation (including penalties) has or will be issued to the company in the sum of $23,236.92 for the 1976 year. 
No additional assessments for primary tax including penalties as the result of the disallowance of losses by misappropriation have or will be issued in respect of prior years as follows: 

<graphic href="082232197908280_66_0.jpg"></graphic>

However it is understood that such losses will be allowable in section 71 of the Income Tax Assessment Act for the year that such losses were ascertained i.e. the income year ended 30th June, 1977. 
Note 3 of the notes attached to financial accounts of Allan Walsh (Hornsby) Pty. Ltd, for the year ended 30 June 76 and lodged with the CAC on 22 September 77, and signed and certified by Ian Sinclair as a director and financial accounting officer in accordance with the New South Wales Companies Act, states: 
Note (3) Provision for Taxation (See Addendum Note (7).) 
On the basis that losses by misappropriation in previous years are allowable as deduction as assessable income for taxation purposes provision for taxation for the year has been assessed at $ 1 , 006.40. 
No provision has been made in the financial accounts for additional primary tax which may be payable in respect of prior years up to and including the year end 30th June, 1972. 
No provision has been made in the financial accounts for the liability (if any) of the company to pay additional tax under Division 7 of the Income Tax Act for prior years up to and including the year ended 30th June, 1976. 
Note 7, which is referred to in brackets, reads: 
Note (7) Taxation (Addendum to Note 3) 
Since lodgement of the company's income tax for the year ended 30th June 1976 notification has been received from the income tax office that an assessment for primary tax (including penalties) has or will be issued in the sum of $4,583.82. 
In addition assessment for primary tax (including penaltics) as a result of disallowance of losses by misappropriation has or will be issued in respect of prior years as follows: 

<graphic href="082232197908280_66_1.jpg"></graphic>

All the amendments to which I have referred carry on each page a certification signed by F. J. O. Ryan which reads: 
I, the Commissioner of Corporate Affairs, being a person declared by the Attorney General by notification published in the Government Gazette on the nineteenth day of June 1 970, to be an approved person for the purposes of section three of the Evidence (Reproductions) Act, 1967 do hereby certify pursuant to the section that this transparency is made as a permanent record of a document in my custody or control. 
Except for two pages of the amendments for Allan Walsh Pty. Ltd for 1975, which were dated 5 October 77, all the other certifications were dated 7 October 77, that is, one day and three days after the then Leader of the Opposition raised the matter in the adjournment debate in the House of Representatives. 
In reply to a question on the  A.M.  radio program 2 1 November 1977 regarding this matter,  Mr Sinclair  said: 
The company is a proprietary company ... the matter is entirely personal. These affairs are exclusively the business of the shareholders of the companies ... not the people of Australia. 
He had previously replied in Parliament in similar vein to  Mr Whitlam  on 4 October 1 977, and to a question on the  Willesee at Seven  program on 15 August 1977. None of these answers appeared to be compatible with the New South Wales Companies Act, section 5 of which does not lessen the duty of a proprietary company's officers to comply with the Act under which the company is incorporated. On 4 October 1 977, in reply to  Mr Whitlam, Mr Sinclair  stated: 
I am quite prepared to accept responsibility for these statements which I signed. 
In his capacity as a director, Ian Sinclair signed all the original returns and the amendments to which I have referred. Section 124 of the New South Wales Companies Act requires a director at all times to:   . . act honestly and use reasonable diligence in the discharge of the duties of his office. 
It provides a penalty for violation of that duty. Section 1 58 of the Act provides: 
1 ) Every company having a share capital shall make a return containing the particulars referred to in Part I of the Eighth Schedule and accompanied by such copies of documents as are required to be included in the return in accordance with Part II of that Schedule and such of the certificates and other particulars prescribed in that part as are applicable to the company. 
The return shall be in accordance with the form set out in Part II of the Eighth Schedule or as near thereto as circumstances admit and shall be made up to the date of the annual general meeting of the company in the year or a date not later than the fourteenth day after the date of the annual general meeting. 
In the case of a company keeping a branch register the particulars of the entries in that register shall, so far as they relate to matters which are required to be stated in the return, be included in the return made next after copies of those entries are received at the registered office of the company. 
The annual return signed by a director or by the manager or secretary of the company shall be lodged with the Commission within one month or in the case of a company keeping pursuant to its articles a branch register in any place  outside the Commonwealth within two months after the annual general meeting. 
If a company fails to comply with this section, the company and every officer of the company who is in default shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. 
Penalty: Two hundred dollars. Default penalty. 
Section 1 59A of the Act requires the auditor of companies like the Allan Walsh companies to keep proper accounting records and state at an annual general meeting whether there are any irregularities in the accounts. If a company fails to comply, the Act states: 
. the company and every officer of the company who is in default shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. 
Section 162 requires directors to lay before a company truthful profit and loss accounts. Under section 375 of the Companies Act, the making of false or misleading statements is punishable on indictment by up to two years imprisonment or a $5,000 fine, or on summary conviction by six months or a $ 1,000 fine. There are statutory impediments to the granting of certain benefits to exempt proprietary companies which lay open to question the propriety of allowing Ian Sinclair to lodge documents with the CAC in a belated attempt to correct previous false and misleading statements. During the years when the misappropriations revealed in amendments lodged by Ian Sinclair on 23 September 1 977 occurred, George Sinclair was the sole auditor of the companies. Ian Sinclair became the sole beneficiary of his father's estate for which application for probate was filed on 1 November 1978, and granted on 2 November 1978. Section 188 of the New South Wales Crimes Act states: 
Whosoever received, or disposes of, or attempts to dispose of, any property, the stealing whereof amounts to felony, knowing the same to have been stolen, shall be guilty of a felony, and may be indicted, either as an accessory after the fact, or for the substantive felony, and in the latter case whether the principal felon has been previously tried or not or is amenable to justice or not, and in either case shall be liable to penal servitude for ten years. 
Section 1 87 of the Crimes Act provides that for the purpose of Section 1 88: 
Stealing includes the taking, extorting, obtaining, embezzling or otherwise disposing of the property in question. 
Ian Sinclair, as beneficiary of George Sinclair's estate was a receiver of money misappropriated or stolen by his father. In the House of Representatives on 6 June 1979, he admitted knowledge of his father's misappropriation. Whether he was aware of that when probate was granted on 2 November 1978 is not, from his own statements, entirely clear. He was aware of misappropriation, because the documents lodged by him as early as 23 September 1977 reveal misappropriations in excess of $265,000. It seems unlikely that by 2 November 1978- more than a year later- he could have been unaware of his father's misappropriations, particularly since by then his father's estate had been prepared for probate. An exchange from the  Willesee at Seven  interview implies that Ian Sinclair knew the identity of the embezzler as far back as 15 August 1977. The transcript of that program reads: 
Willessee: Who was the employee who was paid or benefited by the money? 

 Mr Sinclair: That's none of your business or anybody else out there! 
It should be noted that he did not say : 'I do not know'. He said: 'That's none of your business'. The full contents of the accountant's letter to Reliance Investments, dated 25 November 1978, to which the report from which Ian Sinclair quoted in Parliament on 6 June 1979, has not been revealed. If it identifies George Sinclair as the embezzler, there could be no doubt that Ian Sinclair received assets known to be stolen when he inherited his father's estate on 2 November 1978. It may be argued that George Sinclair's misappropriation was not a criminal act and therefore not within the ambit of section 188 of the NSW Crimes Act. Indeed, Ian Sinclair claimed on the Willesee interview that 'It is not a criminal misappropriation', and has made similar claims since. Such claims seem to disregard section 173 of the NSW Crimes Act, which states: 
Whosoever being a director, officer or member of any body corporate or public company, fraudulently takes, or applies for his own use or benefit, or any use or other purpose other than the use or purpose of such body corporate or company, or fraudulently destroys any of the property of such body corporate or company . . . 
The maximum penalty for violation of section 1 73 is fourteen years imprisonment. It has been asserted by  Mr Sinclair  on numerous occasions that the internal affairs of the company are not legitimate matters of public concern. More recently he has implicitly argued that the covenant into which he entered with the other shareholders to repay money has closed the incident. H. A. J. Ford in Butterworth 's  Principles of Company Law  contradicts that argument. On page 80 of the 1 978 second edition, he states: 
Another limit on the power of the board or a majority in general meeting to condone a wrong done to the company would seem to exist where the wrong is also a crime. The board or general meeting could validly sanction a genuine compromise but could there be a gratuitous release from civil liability when this would amount to condonation of a crime? 
On 14 April 1978 annual returns for the two Walsh companies for the year ending 30 June 1977 were lodged with the New South Wales 
CAC, signed and certified by Ian Sinclair as director. Attached to the financial accounts for each company was a note, numbered (3), concerning provisions for taxation over a number of years. For Allan Walsh Pty Ltd note (2) was attached to the financial accounts. Headed Debtors Control Suspense Account', it states: 
The sum of $65,958.07 represents the shortfall in the balance of debtors control account in the company books at 30th June, 1972 when compared with the total listed debtors balance owing at that date, details of which are yet to be determined. The above figure purely represents the balancing amount at the date of commencement of investigations into the books of account of the company, i.e. 1st July, 1972 and docs not represent the extent of any further adjustment to be made in the books of account, when determined, in respect of the period prior to that date. 
A similar note for Allan Walsh (Hornsby) Pty Ltd states: 
The sum of $43,619.71 represents the shortfall in the balance of debtors control account in the company's books at 30th June, 1971 when compared with the total listed debtors balances owing at that date, details of which are yet to be determined. 
The above figure purely represents the balancing amount at the date of commencement of investigations into the books of account of the company, i.e. 1st July, 1971 and does not represent the extent of any further adjustments to be made in the books of account, when determined, in respect of the period prior to that date. 
The amounts of $65,958 and $43,629 appear to be misappropriations originating in the years ending in 1972 and 1971 respectively and additional to the misappropriations revealed in amendments lodged with the CAC on 23 September 1977, signed and certified by Ian Sinclair as being true and fair under section 162 of the Companies Act. If that is so, the 1977 amendments were neither true or fair. The apparent discrepancy has not been explained. If the amounts of $43,619 and $65,958 do represent misappropriations, when added to the $265,03 1 disclosed in 1977 they amount to $374,608, which is the sum Creighton Walsh spoke of on  Willesee at Seven  on 15 August 1977. Is it conceivable that Creighton Walsh, who was not an officer of the companies, could be better informed than Ian Sinclair, director and principal accounting officer, was one month later? 
Everything I have said tonight is derived from and can be verified by information and documents on public record. None of it has been derived, supplied or leaked from any official inquiries. Most of the facts have been published previously. There is, however, one crucial exception- the fact that Ian Sinclair, beneficiary of his father's estate and therefore of misappropriated money, is apparently in breach of section 188 of the New South Wales Crimes Act, a conviction for which would disqualify him forever from the Federal Parliament. In addition, there is irrefutable evidence of negligence at least as a company director and principal accounting officer, numerous apparent breaches of the New South Wales Companies Act, taxation irregularities not detailed tonight and the Beavan company affairs. Yet this man, unlike  Mr Garland,  unlike  Mr Lynch,  unlike  Mr Eric  Robinson and unlike  Senator Withers,  continues to hold the fourth most senior position in the Fraser Ministry. 
The answer, I suggest, can be found in the character of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and in his craven subservience to the National Country Party. The Prime Minister would have us believe that he is a tough leader. The record suggests otherwise. He displays the attributes of a playground bully grown older rather than those of a tough leader. He can be tough with the weak, but when confronted by someone able to fight on approximate terms he backs down, as he backed down from  Mr BjelkePetersen  on Aurukun, as he backed down from  Sir Charles  Court on export pricing guidelines and as he now backs down from Bill Hayden at Question Time in the House of Representatives. Likewise, he backs down from the Country Party. He simply lacks the courage to sack a Country Party Minister. Does anyone believe that a Liberal Minister in Ian Sinclair's position would not have been suspended? Certainly the Liberal Party back bench does not. By not suspending him the Prime Minister becomes an accessory after the fact. 
My question, since it covers more than one ministerial area, is directed to the Leader of the Government. I refer to the Deputy Prime Minister's guarantee given a couple of weeks ago that farmers would receive adequate supplies of distillate if rationing were introduced. Can he tell us which of the other distillate users- miners, fishermen, heavy transporters, foresters or power generators- will be deprived of supplies if that guarantee to farmers is to be fulfilled? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 17 November 1978: 
1 ) What proportion of crude oil imported into Australia is priced at the full official posted price. 
What proportion of imported crude oil is discounted to: ( a ) up to 5 per cent off the posted price; ( b ) between S per cent and 10 per cent off the posted price: and (c) between 10 per cent and 1 5 per cent off the posted price. 
How docs the Minister's Department monitor the actual prices being paid by importers of crude oil. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Have problems occurred in obtaining sufficient supplies of automotive distillate not only in Queensland, which has already been mentioned but also in southern Queensland, northern New South Wales and Tasmania? Does the Minister agree that the 4 per cent increase in crop area planted this year, coupled with the fact that agriculture uses less than 25 per cent of total automotive distillate, account for less than one per cent of the 12.6 per cent increase in sales in 1979? If so, how does the Government account for the 12.6 per cent increase in sales? How does it propose to overcome shortages in the areas I have mentioned? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) Which individuals or organisations received funds from the Reserve Bank Rural Credits Department for the study of alternative energy sources for rural industry, referred to in the Minister's speech to the Rural Youth National Convention, Melbourne, 2 1 July 1979. 
) What are the details of the study projects. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Was a Defence Services Canteen Trust Account established during World War II; if so, was it originally intended that this fund ultimately be distributed to World War II Service personnel, and when was the distribution made? 
-by leave- I claim to have been misrepresented in the House of Representatives yesterday by the Minister for National Development,  Mr Newman,  when he quoted me as saying: 
At present oil prices, an ethanol extender - 
I interpolate here that I was referring to particular parts of Australia:  is close to breaking even . . . 
He claimed that in that statement I was endorsing the Government's crude oil pricing policy. I have a copy of the speech which I delivered in 
Tasmania and to which he referred. I should like to read just two paragraphs from it. With respect to the Government's crude oil pricing policy, 1 said: 
In the long term consumption will bc more responsive to price, especially for industrial use. The Government's 1977 policy to phase in import parity, accompanied by a resources tax, was an acceptable compromise. It carried the message to transport, building and industry that energy frugal design was essential, without sending the inflationary shock through the economy that 1 978 and subsequent policy has. 
The Government's interest rate and inflation objectives have been ruined by its fuel taxing policy. Attempts to correct that self inflicted damage will drive the economy deeper into depression. More people, especially the young, will suffer the economic deprivation of unemployment and the social stigma which the politicians who caused it have attached to it. 
We have just heard a fairly incoherent tirade from  Senator Messner,  one that had nothing to do with the subject of this debate but had a great deal to do with the impending election in South Australia. The honourable senator would have the gullible belief that the state of the economy in South Australia is the product of the actions of a Labor Government in that State. 
Seantor  WALSH- Perhaps the gullible South Australian senators who are cackling 'hear, hear' can explain the state of the economy of Western Australia. I remind them that Western Australia, according to the Commonwealth Employment Service figures, has the highest unemployment of any State. One could argue endlessly about this subject but there is not much point in doing so. I would just make one or two more remarks in case there are a few gullible people, other than the hyenas who cackle from across the chamber. 

 - Mr President, I apologise; I have been provoked. In case there are a few other gullible people who have been persuaded by  Senator Messner's  incoherent argument- that State governments exert a substantial influence on the levels of employment and economic activity- I emphasise the fact that in 1 974 when a Liberal government was last elected to office in Western Australia, that State had the lowest rates of unemployment and of inflation in the Commonwealth, but that after four years of  Sir Charles  Court's Government it had the highest figures of any State in both categories. It still has the highest unemployment. Also, when the present Labor Government of New South Wales was elected it encountered the highest rate of unemployment in Australia. That State now has the second lowest rate of unemployment. 
-At what figures? 
I can tell the honourable senator one thing. The ratio in Western Australia of job applicants to jobs available is very much worse than it is in South Australia. The honourable senator should look at those figures. However, this is all rather pointless because, as anyone who knows anything will realise- that obviously excludes a number of people across the chamber- State governments have very little influence on the level of economic activity in their States. Unemployment is high in Australia, and rising, because we have an incompetent Federal Government. 
As to the reference to the Australian Council of Trade Unions, it is important to note for the record that within the last few days the  President  of the ACTU made an offer to the Government to sit down with its representatives and those of employers to discuss a comprehensive policy with respect to employment, wages and general economic regulators. The Government has refused the offer of the  President  of the ACTU because it does not want an economic recovery. In its desperation it wants only confrontation. If it can get it it wants violence. It believes that in violence there are votes for it. 
Having dealt with the remarks of  Senator Missen  I return to the subject matter of the debate. Australia was once an egalitarian society.  Senator Carrick  quoted from the Henderson report which, in 1972 and 1973, observed that Australia was one of the most egalitarian countries in the world. However, that situation is changing. As it changes, social cohesion disintegrates. That is happening under a Prime Minister who says that we must have wage restraint, who tells moderate and even low wage earners that they must accept a fall in their real standard of living while he swans around the world in his tandem 707s, which cost the taxpayers 20 million bucks. That demonstrates the level of moral leadership that we are getting from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Given that type of moral leadership, the present disintegration of social cohesion is totally predictable. 
Just before he was elected,  Mr Fraser  said: We will support wage indexation'. Within a month the Government which he led was presenting a submission to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission arguing trenchantly against wage indexation and for a cut in real wages. So much for that promise. It reminds one of the sort of deal which was explained in the  National Times  last weekend, again concerning the Prime Minister. It gives us some insight into the ethics of the man who is currently, and temporarily, the Prime Minister of this country. On a Sunday night the Prime Minister rang the local motor bike dealer and said that he wanted a new motor bike and asked what trade-in was offered on his existing machine. The dealer offered $ 140. The Prime Minister said: 'Agreed. Can you bring the machine out tonight?' The dealer said: 'Yes'. When the dealer arrived at Nareen, the lord of the manor had changed his mind. He said that he wanted $180 for the motor bike, not $140, as he had agreed over the telephone. 
-The lord of Nareen, John Malcolm Fraser. He said: 'The deal that I made on the telephone half an hour ago is inoperative'. Ronald Ziegler used to say: 'That is inoperative'. The Prime Minister then said: 'I want $180 for the trade-in now'. Of course, the dealer then had the option of being blackmailed in that way and paying the extra $40 or taking the motor bike back to town. 
I withdraw the reference to blackmail and say that that sort of shonky, shoddy business ethics is a sample of the way in which he conducts his private business and the way he governs the country. So no wonder social cohesion is disintegrating. 
The subject matter of the discussion is the distribution of income. There are two highly relevant ways of measuring income distribution. There is a primary distribution, which is what people get from wages, dividends and so on, and there is a secondary distribution, which is what they get after taxation and after transfer payments. Looking firstly at the primary distribution of income we see that between December 1 974 and March 1979 the consumer price index increased by 56.2 per cent whereas, for example, the metal trades award in New South Wales, increased by 53.88 per cent. In other words, in the primary distribution of income there was a fall in real terms of just over two per cent during that period. On the secondary distribution of income- that is, net after taxation and after accounting for transfer payments including family allowances and so on- we find that there has been a very substantial and regressive alteration in the secondary distribution of income. The primary distribution of income has already gone against wage earners. 
If we look at the position of people earning $10,000 a year in 1978-79 we find that after all the transfers have taken place they have a disposable income of 79 per cent of their gross. That is marginally lower than it was in 1975-76. On the other hand, the disposable incomes of people on current incomes of $30,000 a year is 64.4 per cent as against 60.6 per cent in 1975-76. That is for a single taxpayer. After these transfers have been taken into account that represents a massive redistribution of income in favour of the higher income groups. If we look at the position of a single income earner with a dependant spouse and two children, we find that the $10,000 a year income earner retains 89.1 per cent of the primary income at present against 90.74 per cent in 1975-76. The high income earners on $30,000 a year- we are talking about less than one per cent of the population- have 67.7 per cent of their primary income left whereas they had 64.3 per cent in 1975-76. I know that the use of figures is confusing to many people and is probably particularly confusing to people on the other side of the chamber, but those figures leave absolutely no doubt that there has been a very substantial and regressive change in the distribution of income since 1975-76. Of course, it is actually worse than that because the table from which I have just quoted is for 1978-79. Since the last Budget the situation has become even worse. 
Taxes in general have gone up to the highest level ever levied in peace-time in Australia. Wage earners' taxes in the aggregate have risen by 15 per cent. The Government expects wages to rise by 9 to  9]/i  per cent and the consumer price index to rise by 10 per cent. So the Government itself is predicting not only that there will be a further decline in primary income, wages, salaries and so on but also that there will be an even greater decline in after tax income because taxes have gone up 15 per cent and wages are to go up only nine per cent. For all but the higher income groups, if one looks at the effect of those tax changes throughout the full income spectrum, it is even worse than that. The people on the middle and lower incomes have had their taxes increased more than proportionately relative to those on the higher incomes. 
If we look at some specific examples of the effect of the Government 's 1 979 Budget taxation policy as against that for the previous year we find that over the year a family with an income of $160 a week pays 28 per cent more tax and a family with an income of $240 per week pays 16 per cent more tax but someone on the Prime Minister's salary of $1,600 a week pays only 10 per cent more tax. The regressive change in the distribution of income which had already occurred before this year has been exacerbated by the changes made in the Budget. The Prime Minister's so-called tax reduction which is to take effect on 1 December, which is only part compensation for previous tax increases, is worth $38 a week to him. All this is completely consistent with the Fraser social value judgments and with the style of the lord of Nareen, who tells the ordinary wage earners, people and families on middle incomes that they have to accept a drop in their real standard of living while he swans around the world in tandem Boeing 707s at a cost to the taxpayer of $20m. 
So far I have been talking only about income tax and its effect on the distribution of income. If we look at indirect taxes we find that the position is even worse again. The major change in indirect taxes has been the notorious petrol tax. It is even more regressive. I intend to quote figures for country people that I derived from the 1975-76 survey by the Australian Bureau of Statistics of household expenditure. I see that the National Country Party is barely represented in this place at this moment, but perhaps some of its supporters are listening to the broadcast of this debate.  ( Quorum formed).  It is probably beyond the capacity of National Country Party senators, and probably half the Liberal Party senators, to understand these ABS statistics. I will summarise them for the benefit of the innumerate. The figures show the effect of rising petrol prices on people who live in the country, particularly on the low income people. They show that 6 per cent of the low income family's income is spent on petrol, oils and lubricants; for the middle income family the figure is 3 per cent; and for the high income family, only 1  Vi  per cent is spent on those commodities. So, the effect of increasing petrol and associated charges hits the medium income people twice as hard as it hits the rich and it hits the low income people four times as hard as it hits the rich. That is what this Government is deliberately doing to people who live in the country and that is what the Opposition is complaining about in this motion. 

That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The failure of the Government's trade negotiations. ' 
The failure of the Government's trade negotiations was exposed in the most dramatic way in a report on the front page of last Saturday's  Age  regarding the outcome of last week 's discussions with United States officials in Canberra on beef quotas. Among other things it was reported that we have won from the United States a firm commitment to import at lest 590 million kilograms of beef a year. Elsewhere the report stated that if the global import quota drops below 590 million kilograms and if Australia's share of that quota is cut, Australia is able to take redressing action such as altered import concessions. In another place it stated that counter-cyclical legislation is to be introduced in America later this year to provide for a minimum import quota of only 568 million kilograms compared with the previously promised 590 million kilograms. The report also stated that the United States delegation involved in the Canberra talks refused to alter the proposed counter-cyclical legislation but Australia did not expect to win such a concession. 
What the uninformed reader would make of that bewildering array of contradictions is a matter for wide-eyed conjecture. The amazing package appeared under the headline 'Windfall for Beef Exports', which I think is a very significant tribute to the efficiency of the Government's propaganda machine, at least at sub-editorial level. The sub-editors and others- the whole community- have been exposed to a three-year barrage of propaganda from initially  Mr Howard, Mr Garland, Mr Fraser, Mr Anthony  and  Mr Sinclair,  among others. I do not propose, and I have not time, to review the whole three years of that propaganda exercise, but I would like to start at last December with the return of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  from his post-Christmas but pre-Boeing trip to the United States when he boasted that he had won new access to the United States beef market. The  Australian  newspaper, ever eager to oblige  Mr Fraser,  claimed in a headline: 
Boost for US Beef Exports. Fraser Wins Deal. 
Countless other ministerial trips to America this year have been justified on the same pretext. Although  Mr Fraser  made the first claim of an amazing breakthrough, a number of others quickly followed him. In March  Mr Anthony  globetrotted off to the United States. Commenting on the multilateral trade negotiation talks, he said that he was satisfied from discussions with  Mr Bergland  that the United States Administrative was firmly committed to a base import level of 1.3 billion lbs, which, incidentally, is 590 million kilograms, the figure that was mentioned earlier. In April, while on the same trip,  Mr Anthony  said: 
For Australia, possibly the most significant part of the settlement with the United States involves guarantees covering US imports of beef. 
Guarantees which are now shown to be worthless.  Mr Anthony  was, of course, referring to the same so-called deal that  Mr Fraser  had dramatically announced after Christmas. Even back in Australia, some months later,  Mr Anthony  continued to boast about his alleged achievements in the United States beef market. On 19 July he told the inaugural meeting of the Cattle Council of Australia: 
I wrote to ambassador Robert Strauss on this matter again recently. A few days ago he advised me that the Administration continues to strongly support the inclusion of 1 .3 billion pounds minimum access level in any counter-cyclical meat import law. 
That is now seen to be meaningless. That is what the Minister for Trade and Resources and  Deputy  Prime Minister was saying as recently as 19 July. It is now meaningless. The clear conclusion, of course, is that either the Americans were taking Messrs Fraser, Anthony and others for a ride or they have been taking the public for a ride. All of these claims of victories and breakthroughs are starkly revealed as being as worthless as a Fraser election promise. In sharp contrast to all of this very public boasting of illusory gains, I quote this item, which was tucked away in the Australian Broadcasting Commission 's  National Farm Report  of 30 August: 
As from January the 1st next year, duty on imported tobacco will be reduced by 60 per cent following the multilateral trade negotiations between Australia and the United States which gave a 60 per cent drop in the US wool levy and guaranteed exports of beef. Under the agreement, Australian tobacco manufacturers who maintain their prescribed utilisation of SO per cent or more of Australian tobacco leaf, will pay 47 cents a kilo duty on imported leaf, the present duty is$1.18. 
The report goes on to say that the  President  of the Tobacco Growers Council of Australia,  Mr Don  Hastie, states that: the changes will save manufacturers $7m a year, make a political football out of the tobacco industry and further threaten the viability of Australian tobacco growers. It is highly significant that there was no ministerial announcement that this concession had actually been implemented for the United States. It does, however, bear out the truth of a statement which  Mr Sinclair  made on 28 March pertaining to this matter when he said:   . . the Government does not intend to offer one industry for another. How very true. What, in fact, the Government is doing is offering an industry to the United States without insisting on any trade-off at all. For once a Government statement can be seen to have been reliable. 
With respect to beef the  Age  report makes it perfectly clear that the Government has failed to hold what it had so extravagantly and repetitiously guaranteed. Now that it is an accepted fact that counter-cyclical legislation will be approved by the United States Congress and Administration there are no hastily-arranged dramatic flights to Washington such as we saw last October. Can we anticipate that the Minister for Primary Industry will repeat that stunt when the Finnane report is tabled and, if so, will the one or two gullible journalists who pose as agricultural specialists again swallow the official version? Will the next serious trade-negotiating Australian politician who arrives in Washington be asked by the  President  what it is that he is running away from in Australia? But whether the stunt is repeated or not, it is now quite clear that the Government has failed to deliver in this matter. Not only has it failed to produce what it said that it would produce, but also the claims that it has made over almost 12 months, alleging breakthroughs and victories, have now been shown to be patently false. In this matter we are not just concerned with the United States and beef markets. I want to refer to a statement which was made not by one Minister but by two Ministers in the House of Representatives on 29 May, that is by  Mr Garland  and  Mr Malcolm  Fraser- they both decided to get into the act, to compete for the limelight- regarding negotiations with the European Economic Community. In his statement the Prime Minister, among other things, stated: 
I believe that as a result of the informed debate which this occasioned there has been increasing acceptance in Europe of the basic correctness of the Australian position. 
What does increasing acceptance mean? He went on to say: 
I said earlier that we did not seek to overthrow the basis of the Common Agricultural Policy . . . But this is the first step forward that we have taken in this area for many, many years. I look forward to further such steps. 
Where has that alleged step forward taken us? There is no answer. The Prime Minister continued: 
I therefore regard what has happened as a beginning and certainly not an end of a process of continuing change to the advantage of Australian producers and, indeed, all Australians. 
Precisely what change does he claim will continue? There is no clue in the statement to provide an answer to that question. He continued: 
. the dialogue between Australia and the Community will remain open . . . 
It may remain open, but what will the dialogue produce? What has it produced? He went on: 
These arc all signs that Australia and the European Economic Community are on the threshold of a new and better trading relationship . . . 
What signs are there that we are on the threshold of a new and better trading relationship, whatever that might mean? He continued:   . . undeniable scope for  signficantly  increased trade and economic and political co-operation between the Community and Australia. 
Precisely what does significantly increased trade and economic co-operation mean? So much for the Prime Minister. The Minister for Special Trade Representations,  Mr Garland,  was if anything even more nebulous. With regard to beef, he said: 
This quota is to be increased, and although it is allocated on a global basis, Australia should benefit from this increase in proportion to its current share of EEC imports under the quota. 
The increase was not quantified. By how much is it to be increased? He said that Australia should benefit from this nebulous and underlined increase in the quota. In addition, he said that we would get a new and much smaller quota for high quality beef. How much more will we get? Again it is unquantified. How big will the alleged quota be? In respect of cheese,  Mr Garland  said: 
. certain concessions on cheese imports into Australia the EEC has - 
That is in return for-  offered to guarantee access for worthwhile tonnage of cheese under favourable conditions. 
Here we have a compound non-statement. It refers to certain conditions, which are not stated, which have been made available for European penetration of the Australian market. Unstated conditions have been made available for the penetration of the Australian market by European cheese. It also refers to the trade-off for favourable conditions of entry for Australian cheese into the EEC. What are the favourable conditions and for how much do they apply? For what quantity do they apply? Again there is no answer from  Mr Garland.  He went on to say: 
Australian primary industries will also benefit from European Economic Community concessions on some other agricultural items, including offals, meat extracts, dried fruits and certain canned fruits. 
What are the concessions and how substantial will the benefit be? Again, no clue is offered in the ministerial statement. However,  the Australian Liberal-  which I understand is a monthly journal of the Liberal Party- must have access to information which the Parliament does not get because it was able to say in its June issue: 
The agreement on bilateral trade worth $400 million between Australia and the European Economic Community was achieved by the persistence of the Liberal- National Country Party government. 
How does the  Australian Liberal  manage to place a precise evaluation on the nebulous and unquantified criteria given to the Parliament? Does the Liberal Party have access to material which is not presented to Parliament? If so, it is about time that that material was presented to Parliament. Or, are honourable senators to conclude- I think this is much more likely- that whoever writes for the  Australian Liberal  took a stab in the dark and said, 'Well, we will write $400m, that sounds as good as any other figure', which would be in keeping with the way in which this Government has estimated its Budget deficits, amongst other things, over the last couple of years? He may have decided to throw in any figure because he probably would not get found out and nobody would have a better idea. That appears to be what happened. The  Austraiian Liberal  had the audacity to publish this item under the heading 'No help from ALP on EEC agreement'. It claimed that this magnificent achievement- which the  Australian Liberal  has managed to quantify on the basis of non specific data- was achieved without the support of the Opposition, which persistently knocked the Government's efforts to gain increased access to the European Economic Community. 
Of course, the Opposition is not knocking the Government's efforts; it is condemning the Government for its failure. The Opposition is not obstructive, it would just like some results to show for the globetrotting activities of at least five Ministers who have been involved in this over the last three years; it would just like to see some results in place of the windy and nebulous rhetoric which all of them either send back while they are overseas- as the Prime Minister did last December- or which they release when they return. We condemn the Government for its failure and its wilful and persistent attempts to mislead the public with, at best, exaggerated and not unusually completely illusory stories about alleged trade breakthroughs which have been achieved. The Opposition is saddened by the spectacle of this gaggle of globetrotting Ministers, from the Prime Minister in his Boeing aircraft to lesser mortals flying on Qantas and other international airlines, all pathetically competing for the limelight by giving meaningless assurances and hollow guarantees in an attempt to justify their junketing. If the public is to be forced to foot the bill for the Prime Minister's tandem Boeings, worth twenty million bucks, and then to fuel them as they fly around the world while he is ostensibly dealing in these trade negotiations, the public is entitled to expect something substantial as a result of it. Nothing substantial has been given. 
I do not know whether  Senator Baume  is to reply to this motion, since he chose to interject, but if he is I would like to ask him to explain whether the following statement from last Saturday's  Age  newspaper is correct: 
We have won from the United States a firm commitment to import at least 590 million kilograms of beef a year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
1 ) What actions has the Minister or his Department taken as a consequence of Resolution 10 of the Australian Fisheries Council concerning limitations to live aquarium fish imports. 
When will any such measures be implemented. 
On what legislative authority will they be implemented. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General, both in his own capacity and as the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I ask: Are petroleum products freight subsidy payments in the Australian Capital Territory made under the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act or, as is the case in the Northern Territory, under a specific ordinance? If not, what is the legal basis for these payments? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
Has the Export Developments Grants Board ever been called upon to adjudicate on entitlement to grants between companies which produce and ship goods. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) How many applications have been received for Export Market Development Grants and how many have been processed. 
What is the rate of processing. 
I do not wish to speak on this matter at any length, but I wish to place a few comments on record. Although this is a legal issue, its relevance, at least in the short term, is mostly to the Australian fishing industry. I want to comment on several matters pertaining to the licensing of foreign fishing vessels for the conduct of joint feasibility fishing studies and joint commercial studies and for licensed operation by foreign vessels within the about-to-be-proclaimed 200-mile zone. 
Firstly, there are serious doubts as to whether the conditions under which joint feasibility fishing or commercial licensed operations are adequately supervised. For example, recently my attention was drawn to the fact that a licence has been granted to two Polish trawlers to operate off the southern coast for mid-water trawling. There are at least grave doubts as to whether the Commonwealth has taken adequate steps to ensure that the trawling is restricted to the mid-water depth, for which the licence has been granted. Whilst in the areas in which it is proposed that those two vessels shall operate mid-water drilling will not, I understand, interfere significantly with fishing activities by Australian vessels, if the vessels trawl at greater depth it certainly will upset the existing fishing activities being carried on by Australian vessels. 
I am informed also- I cannot guarantee the veracity of this report- that those vessels are greater than 80 metres in length and that currently no Australian State will license vessels in excess of 45 metres in length and, indeed, the States will license only about six vessels in excess of 32 metres in length. If that is correct, it is apparent that something should be done about the conditions under which State fishing authorities grant licences to vessels, in order to remove what appears to be discrimination against Australian fishing. Squid fishing is now taking place off the coast of Victoria and, I understand, western Tasmania. Australian fishermen have not fished for squid to a significant extent until now. A major reason for this is that the highly attractive prices available on the Japanese market are not available to Australian fishermen. A number of tariff and other measures designed to impose high costs on and barriers against the entry of Australian squid to the Japanese market are enforced. 
It seems to me, and to other people in the Labor Party with whom I have discussed this matter, that it would be a reasonable proposition for the Australian Government to put to Japan that in return for granting access to Australian waters for squid fishing by Japanese vessels, the Japanese market ought to be opened up to Australian fishermen. Australian fishermen ought to be given real access to the Japanese market for squid caught by Australian vessels. At present, they do not have such access. There is no evidence that such a scheme has been considered by the Government, let alone that such a proposition has been put to the Japanese. Indeed, there is a widespread belief that any trade-off the Australian Government has suggested to Japan has been concerned with a trade-off for beef rather than for fish caught by Australian fishermen. If that is correct. I guess that it is a consequence of the fact that there are a half a dozen farmers in the Cabinet, most of whom produce beef, and no fishermen. 
If there was a fisherman in the Cabinet the fisherman might have an effective voice. They certainly have not got one now. We should bear in mind that these vessels will operate off Australian waters in much greater numbers in the coming season than they have in the past. However the question of distillate supplies to the vessels is another matter that has not been explained satisfactorily. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  has admitted in the last 24 hours that there are shortages of distillate in Australia. He has not told us where those shortages are because he does not want to start a panic. He said that he would not identify the regional areas, as that would be a signal for general panic. For all the information the Minister has given us, shortages could be developing all round the country. Notwithstanding the Minister's assurance as recently as 1 August that to talk of rationing distillate was to talk nonsense, it has now been admitted by the Government that distillate is in short supply. Given that admission, have these vessels, some of which have the capacity to take on very large quantities of distillate, been guaranteed supplies of distillate from Australian ports? 
I return to the squid fishing venture. It is alleged in documents I have read that there is a squid season in Australia, as there is in many parts of the northern hemisphere and certainly around Japan, where squid can be caught satisfactorily for only a limited period of the year. The joint feasibility fishing operation which was conducted last year operated for only four months and was supposed to supply valuable technical information to Australia. However, it begs the question as to how it can be asserted that there is a seasonality in squid fishing in Australia when no attempt has been made to fish throughout the year. There may be a satisfactory answer to that question but it has not yet been given. 
The final comment I wish to make, at this stage at least, is that in the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry for this financial year it is estimated that revenue of more than $3m will be derived in various ways by the Commonwealth from foreign fishing vessels. Conceptually, one could regard that revenue as royalty payments by foreign fishing vessels for operating within Australian waters. It is at least worthy of consideration that the Government should allocate this money to a fund, the purpose of which would be to supply credit for the purchase, although not necessarily the construction, of larger fishing vessels for the Australian fishing fleet- vessels which would have the capacity to operate further off-shore and probably in deeper waters than the vessels currently used. The fishing industry has long been discriminated against, vis-a-vis other forms of primary industry, in that the financial arrangements that are available for other primary producers are not always available to fishermen or, at least, they are not as effective for fishermen. For example, the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia will grant loans of up to $100,000 for the purchase of fishing vessels. However, fishing vessels of any size are very much more expensive that that. They can cost up to half a million dollars. After that $100,000 limit has been passed, the interest rate on the money lent is 13.5 per cent which is an extremely high rate of interest. Fishermen are also being discriminated against in that those who use four-wheel drive vehicles in their business operations do not receive the exemption from sales tax that other primary producers receive. 
The proposition I am putting as being at least worthy of consideration by the Government is that these royalty payments, if I may use that term, which will now accrue to Government revenue ought to be paid into a fund which would be used to finance on reasonable terms- not at 13.5 per cent interest- the purchase of vessels by Australian fishermen in order to comply with what is stated in the Minister's statement to be the longer term objective of the Government within the 200-mile economic zone, that is, that as the Australian industry develops the capacity to exploit the resources in that area, foreign fishing operations will be progressively replaced by those of Australian fishermen. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, refers to the recently exposed taxation fraud involving doctors and other people in Perth. Can the Minister guarantee that these taxation frauds will be properly investigated and rectified? Has he seen a statement by  Mr Christo  Moll that a former high official of a political party was involved? Is the person concerned  Mr Noel  Crichton-Browne,  president  until last year of the Western Australian branch of the Liberal Party? 
The Bill that is currently before the Senate is what is commonly known as the tap and tender Bill. I note from the second reading speech an encouraging recognition of realism in the money market which was sadly lacking from the Government's thinking, if the Government's thinking can be assumed to be the same as the statements of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I refer in particular to passages which say: 
Ultimately interest rates can only be determined in accordance with market forces. The increased sophistication of financial markets makes this more apparent. The arrangements introduced in this legislation facilitate the selling of Commonwealth securities at rates more in accordance with the forces of supply and demand. 
I do not think there will be any serious disputation among people who have any understanding of these things that those statements are correct. I just draw attention to the fact that they stand in stark contrast to the attitude displayed by the Prime Minister just prior to the 1977 election when he said that interest rates would fall by 2 per cent over the coming 12 months.  His  exact words were: 
It is a target that can and will be met. 
The reality, of course, was there was no way in which interest rates could be forced down, given the facts that were known in November 1977, without a massive explosion in the money supply. If the Government was going to contain the money supply within the parameters it had itself set, there was no way in which interest rates could be forced down; ultimately interest rates were pushed up. 
That statement indicates that the Government and the Prime Minister in particular now realise that interest rates cannot for long be determined by a political fiat but must ultimately be controlled by market forces. That is encouraging. It is a plus for better government, or at least for marginally less bad government. The purpose of the Bill is to simplify and expedite loan raisings by the Commonwealth. To that extent it is commendable and that is the reason it is not being opposed by the Opposition. The old practice of two major Commonwealth loans a year obviously created some lumpiness in the capital market and the smoother flow of funds into Commonwealth securities ought to be of advantage to the whole money market as well as to the Commonwealth Government. Loan raisings of this type while they do not affect the magnitude of a deficit, do affect money supply growth. The public's comprehension of the inter-relationship of a deficit, of government borrowings, of money supply growth, of capital inflow and so on is, one would have to say, fairly weak. This is a pity. It is an even greater pity that the public has been consistently mislead over a very long period by the arrant nonsense mouthed principally by the Prime Minister who asserted simultaneously that deficits were inflationary and that deficits must be paid back. 
A deficit, under some circumstances, can be inflationary but it depends on the way in which it is financed. If a deficit is financed by loan raisings its impact on the money supply is the same as if there were loan raisings within Australia. Its impact on the money supply is the same as if there were no deficit at all and Government expenditure was financed entirely by current revenue, by taxation. Under those circumstances a deficit or the loans which are raised to fund the deficit do ultimately have to be paid back. The type of deficit budgeting which could be inflationary is that which is funded not by loan raisings from the public, but by borrowings from the Reserve Bank which conceptually is identical to printing money. That may be inflationary. Indeed, under most circumstances it is almost certain to have some effect on inflation, maybe with a time lag. That thinking is enshrined in the school of economics, the Chicago school, or in Friedmanism which asserts that because it affects the rate of growth of the money supply it must affect the rate of inflation, albeit after a time lag. The central tenet of Friedmanism is that the rate of inflation can be determined by the growth of the money supply, or the rate of inflation is the rate of growth of the money supply minus any growth in real domestic product. 
That was the fundamental economic principle which seemed to have been adopted by this Government when it came into power in late 1975 and which, although with declining enthusiasm, it has followed ever since. I say 'declining enthusiasm '-perhaps ' failing conviction ' is a more appropriate term- because in April of this year it was apparent, for various reasons mainly related to the Government's inability or refusal to take prompt action regarding the funding of the first advance on the wheat crop, that the money supply would grow by a great deal more than the 6 per cent to 8 per cent that the Government had forecast as its target in the 1978 Budget. Indeed, it finished up at very close to 12 per cent. In April of this year the explanation of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  for this growth in the money supply well in excess of that which the Government had set as its objective was that the rate of inflation had been higher than the Government had anticipated at the time when it set its monetary growth target. With that statement the Treasurer stood Friedmanism on its head, because he then asserted that the growth rate of the money supply was determined by the growth of inflation, whereas Friedmanism- or the Chicago school- says that the rate of inflation is determined by the rate of growth of the money supply. Nevertheless-- 
A number of determinants of what? 
I know there are. Of course there are a number of determinants of the rate of growth of the money supply. The point that I was making was that the Chicago school theory- at least in the vulgar way in which it was interpreted and adopted by this Government- is that the rate of inflation is determined by the growth rate of the money supply minus real growth in the gross domestic product. But, in 
April this year, the Treasurer, in an attempt to explain why the money supply was increasing at a rate of 50 per cent greater than that which the Government forecast and which it had been stated as its objective, said that the rate of inflation was higher than the Government anticipated when it brought in the 1978 Budget. Whereas the vulgar adaptation of Friedmanism taken on board by this Government in 1975-76 asserted that the rate of inflation was determined by the rate of growth in the money supply, the Treasurer in April was saying that the rate of growth of the money supply was determined by the rate of inflation. 
I leave aside all those contradictions and oversimplifications. It nevertheless remains true that the growth rate of the money supply does have some relevance to inflation. Under certain circumstances it has a great deal more relevance than others, those circumstances principally being times of full employment. It will have less influence in times of high unemployment. There is a time lag between the time when the money supply growth is recorded and the inflationary consequences of that growth become apparent. In this context I note that my colleague, John Kerin, the very able member for Werriwa, spoke on this matter in the House of Representatives last night. He put on record some statistical facts which have been placed on record before but which are obviously either not comprehended or not wanted to be understood by members of the Government. He showed- this applied to both common indices of money supply growth, Ml and M3- that the highest money supply growth rate ever recorded in Australia was in the fourth quarter of 1972, when Ml increased by an annual rate of 28 per cent and M3 increased by an annual rate of 27.3 per cent. Of course, that was the period when the McMahon Government was in control. It was in government for all but three weeks of that period. 
The principal reason why the money supply was expanding at that extraordinarily high rate was that foreign capital was pouring into the country because the McMahon Government failed to grasp the nettle in late 197 1 and revalue the Australia dollar, when quite clearly the dollar should have been revalued. If one places any credence on Friedmanism or the Chicago school, it was inevitable in a time of full employment and near full employment, which applied at that time- perhaps some would argue that it became over-full employment early in 1973- that there would be an inflationary result or that that money supply growth rate would induce a higher rate of inflation sometime during 1973 or perhaps early in 1976. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I  had almost finished my remarks prior to the suspension of the sitting.  I  was pointing out that the highest ever recorded rate of increase in both M 1 and M3 occured in the last two quarters of 1972 and that this has had very significant inflationary dangers for the future. These facts were pointed out by my colleague, the very able member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  in the House of Representatives last night.  Sir William  McMahon attempted to reply in the adjournment debate, he having been the Prime Minister at the time, of course, that this irresponsible increase in the money supply was occurring. In defence of himself, he said: 
But we had decided to take action late in 1972 in order to ensure that the rate of growth of the money supply was diminished by preventing the inflow into Australia of funds that would be here for a year or less. 
I  draw the attention of the Senate to the words: 
But we had decided to take action . . . 
The Government had not taken any action; it had decided to take action.  I  do not suppose that any of us are in a position now to know whether the Government of the day had decided to take action. About half the members of that Cabinet are no longer prominent politicians anyway. The real point is that the Government of the day had refused to take the action which had been clearly required at least since the end of 1971, that was, to revalue the Australian dollar. The Government had refused to take that action because the Liberal Party majority was compliant in 1 972 to the Country Party minority. As the events of this afternoon in the House of Representatives have amply demonstrated, that situation still applies. The Liberal Party does not have the intestinal fortitude to do what it knows to be correct, because the Country Party stands over it.  Mr Malcolm  Fraser is a playground bully grown older who, just like  Sir William  McMahon, does not have the courage the stand up to the Country Party. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I  must ask you,  Senator, to  address yourself to the Bill. 
-I have finished. 
-What should  I  withdraw? 
The statement was that he is a playground bully grown older and anyone who has witnessed his spineless performance in the House of Representatives this afternoon could hardly come to any other conclusion. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Senator,  I  think that you should withdraw those words. 
-What words? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  They are not parliamentary words. That was not a proper way to refer to a member of the other place.  I  must ask you to withdraw. 
-What words? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The words that you applied to the Prime Minister. 
That he is a playground bully grown older?  I  have described him in precisely those terms before in the Senate and there has been no objection raised. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I  am asking you to withdraw those words. 
-Which words? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Your description of the Prime Minister. 
I  made several comments about the Prime Minister.  I  am not sure precisely which ones you mean.  I  am quite happy to comply with your ruling, but  I  am not sure which words you have in mind. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The words that you applied to the Prime Minister in the latter part of your remarks. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I  am at somewhat of a disadvantage when  I  am asked to withdraw something which is not specified. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The offending words. 
-What were the offending words? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  1 have asked you to withdraw the words you used referable to the Prime Minister. They were used in the last two sentences of your remarks.  I  think they are perfectly clear to you.  I  ask you to withdraw them. 
I  think it is fundamentally illogical to ask me to withdraw something which is not specified.  I  am quite happy to comply with your ruling as long as I am aware of that which I am being asked to withdraw. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I have asked the honourable senator to withdraw the offensive words which were the words referable to the Prime Minister in the latter part of his speech. I think that is pretty clear. 
I do not wish to hold up the business of the Senate for the rest of the night, so I will withdraw whatever non-specified and apparently non-specifiable offensive remarks I made. 
I intend to say only two or three sentences, but I must put in as a preamble that I entirely reject the suggestion made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  that I am speaking out of turn. I am speaking in complete conformity with the Standing Orders of the Senate. 
In moving for the suspension of the Standing Orders,  Senator Button  was asked what the urgency of this matter was, and I wish to comment only on that issue. This matter is sufficiently urgent to justify the suspension of Standing Orders because an official and quasi-judicial inquiry has brought down findings which contain the gravest and most substantial allegations ever made against a Minister in an Australian Government. Six hours after that report was made public in Sydney, that Minister is still the fourth ranking Minister in the Government of Australia. He is still there six hours after the gravest and most substantial allegations ever brought down against a Minister in an Australian Government were made public. I respectfully suggest that, if that is not a matter of urgency and a matter of the gravest concern for this Senate, this Senate has abdicated its reason for existence. If the Government opposes the motion moved by  Senator Button,  the Government has abdicated all claim to the respect of the Australian people. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 June 1979: 
1 ) In what circumstances are new telephone subscribers required to lodge a 'security deposit' before Telecom will connect a telephone service. 
) On whose authority is this requirement imposed. 
How much is the deposit and by what means is this amount determined. 
Under what Act or Regulation is this requirement imposed. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It refers to the assertion by the former Minister for Primary Industry on 7 June this year that both  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Anthony  had been informed and had been kept informed about investigations into irregularities in companies with which the former Minister was associated. This assertion was confirmed by the Prime Minister in his answer to a question from  Mr West  on 30 August this year. Was the Prime Minister informed of the round robin between the Sinclair Pastoral Company and companies in the Reliance group, organised by  Mr Sinclair  on 12 June 1978 to cover fiscal deficiences within the group, five days after the Finnane inquiry's terms of reference were broadened? 
-And admitted by the Minister for Primary Industry. If so, when was  Mr Fraser  informed of this round robin? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I received this paper only a few minutes ago. I really have not had time to read through it entirely. As the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has stated, it was not listed on the Notice Paper which was circulated. For that reason, I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I wish to register a protest about the contempt for the Senate which  Senator Carrick  displayed at Question Time this morning. The broad and fundamental issues concern the former Minister for Primary Industry and the degree to which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  were implicated in covering up the facts pertaining to the business affairs of the former Minister for Primary Industry. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Walsh,  1 ask you to show full awareness of Standing Order 4 1 8 in the comments you wish to make. 
I say in response to the point of order that if  Senator Missen  finds those comments offensive I am quite happy to withdraw them. I suggest that he look at the sorts of comments that were made by people on his side four years ago, when he did not display the same sensitivity as he displays now. I would be quite happy to withdraw them on the condition that  Senator Carrick,  as the representative of the Prime Minister in this place, make available to the Senate the facts. In answer to a question on 30 August this year the Prime Minister exhorted the Opposition to be patient about the question of the business affairs of the former Minister for Primary Industry. He said: 'Wait until the report comes out and then there may be some facts on which we can make judgments.' In an earlier period the Prime Minister was very strong about obtaining facts. In July 1975 in the House of Representatives he said: 
Ten per cent, or even 50 per cent of the truth is as good a way of misleading this Parliament and the Australian people as a downright lie. The half truth, the partial answer and the slipping over of the full facts are a misleading of this Parliament. 
The first of the two facts that I am asking the Government to disclose now was the subject of my question this morning. Given the fact, which is on the record of the House of Representatives of 7 June this year, and which was acknowledged by the Prime Minister in answer to a question by  Mr West  on 30 August- that the former Minister for Primary Industry had kept his leader and the Prime Minister informed of the investigations into his financial affairs, we want to know whether the Prime Minister was aware of the round robin organised by  Mr Sinclair  on 12 June 1978 which  Mr Sinclair  has admitted to having organised. Does the Prime Minister consider that that is a normal way in which to conduct business? Is that the way in which business is conducted between Western Districts brahmins? We know, of course, that that is the way in which business was conducted by the Prime Minister's ancestors in Melbourne in the 1880s and 1890s when they established their fortunes with shonky government contracts and by defrauding - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I would ask you,  Senator Walsh,  not to use that sort of language in reference to people in the other place. I would ask you to withdraw that as being objectionable. 
My reference was to the Prime Minister's ancestors, not to the Prime Minister. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- It was an indirect reference to the Prime Minister- an attempted description of the Prime Minister- by perhaps devious means. 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT-Senator Walsh, I ask you to continue and at the same time to refrain from the use of unparliamentary language. 
-Very well,  Mr Deputy President.  However, it is a matter of historical record that Simon Fraser was one of the people involved in floating land banks in Melbourne in the 1 880s and 1 890s and that the fortunes of that family were partially established at the expense of the depositors who lost their money in those banks; that that was not the only fortune in Melbourne that was established that way; and that  Mr Fraser  is not the only descendant of families which established their fortunes in that way who currently sits in this Parliament representing the Liberal Party. 
I return to the issue proper.  Senator Carrick,  as the Minister representing the Prime Minister, was asked whether the Prime Minister knew of that round robin.  His  response was to tell me to put the question on notice. We are entitled to know the facts. The former Minister for Primary Industry said that he kept the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister informed. The Prime Minister acknowledged on 30 August that that was so. Therefore, we want to know whether the Prime Minister was informed about the round robin. We also want to know whether the Prime Minister was informed about the so-called loan which was made to Sinclair Pastoral Co. Pty Ltd on 7 July 1977 and which just happened to exceed by $ 10,000 the repayment of a previous so-called loan from Sinclair Pastoral Co. to the Reliance group one week earlier, just before the end of the financial year. I do not canvass at all anything disclosed in the Finnane report other than those two matters which  Mr Sinclair  has corroborated. We are entitled to know whether the Prime Minister was aware of those two transactions, the factual accuracy of which  Mr Sinclair  has acknowledged. We are entitled to know also whether the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Leader of the National Country Party knew about those things. 
Only two alternatives can possibly be deduced from those facts. If  Mr Anthony  and  Mr Fraser  were informed of the two matters to which I have referred, they certainly have an extraordinary idea of the type of financial behaviour which is proper for a senior Minister of the Crown. If, on the other hand,  Mr Sinclair  did not disclose to them those two happenings, and was withholding information from them or misleading them, they were extraordinarily gullible to have accepted  Mr Sinclair's  assurance that everything was in order, given the amount of information which already was available on the public record at that time. It was not information from the Finnane report, but information available on the public record and in particular documents lodged with the Corporate Affairs Commission in New South Wales. Those documents can be obtained by anyone and were obtained and put together by people. 
Given the allegations which have been published in the  Bulletin,  the Melbourne  Age  and other publications, if  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Anthony  were willing to accept, in the face of that evidence,  Mr Sinclair's  assurance that everything was in order, they were extremely gullible. And it seems that they still are. If, on the other hand, they were informed of transactions such as the round robin and the so-called loan repayment of 30 June 1 977 and the borrowing back again of that money a week later, they have an extraordinary notion of what is proper financial conduct for a senior Minister of the Crown. Indeed, if they were informed of those matters, they are accessories after the fact to those actions. So either they are accessories after the fact or they are so guillible that they should not be trusted to run a pie shop, let alone to govern a country. Those are the only two deductions which can possible be made from the facts. Whichever one of them is correct, the Prime Minister is not fit to remain in office, and neither is the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party. 
I find it a matter of some dismay that a government and a Prime Minister, who has preached so freely about propriety and integrity over the last four years, should now be in this position. For example, 18 months ago, on 12 March 1978, the Prime Minister said: 
One of my Government's first promises when we were elected just over two years ago was to restore the integrity and honesty  of Government 
Without integrity- without the appearance and reality of integrity- no Government can hope to have the confidence of the people, or the trust of the people. 
My Government has demonstrated again and again our fundamental commitment to restoring integrity to public administration in Australia. Our record in this regard is without parallel in our history. 
I do not think that that would be disputed seriously now. He continued: 
As long as 1 lead the Government, there is no way known that anything less than the highest code and practice of public administration will be tolerated. 
How does that proclaimed, self-imposed standard measure up with the unanswered questions which I have again put to the Senate? Was the Prime Minister aware of the round robin? Was the Prime Minister aware of the so-called loan repayment and the borrowing back a week later in mid 1977? If the Prime Minister was aware of those transactions-  Mr Sinclair  has acknowledged that they took place- he certainly has an extraordinary idea of what constitutes integrity in ministerial behaviour. In a Press statement issued just over a year ago regarding the unfortunate  Senator Withers,  the Prime Minister said: 
The community rightly demand a high standard from the Ministers of the Government. The judgments on Ministers are more exacting and sometimes more harsh than the judgments which might be passed on those outside the sphere of public life. 
I will return to that in a minute. 
No, apparently not. The Prime Minister continued: 
If these high standards were not upheld, the people's confidence in Government- a confidence which is fundamental to Australian democracy- would be undermined. 
On 2 1 November 1977, during an election campaign, when these matters were being discussed- it goes back more than two years- the former Minister for Primary Industry said: 
Our standards are very high indeed. I believe the standards I have set are exactly the standards that anyone would wish a person in high office to set. 
Are we to deduce from that statement that it is within the standards which the public expects from a senior Minister in this Government for a senior Minister to organise round robins and conceal from the shareholders of a company of which he is the managing director all knowledge of so-called loans made for the benefit of the person granting the loan? Is that the sort of standard of behaviour which the public expects from Ministers of this Government? 
The Prime Minister's extraordinary behaviour throughout the two years in which this has been a matter of public discussion- a great deal of the facts were known even two years ago- contrasts in an extraordinary way with his reactions to previous allegations against Ministers. The present Minister for Special Trade Representations,  Mr Garland,  went off within six weeks of this Government of propriety having been elected. He was sacked from the ministry, or he was required to resign. Next cab off the rank was  Mr Lynch,  towards the end of 1977. We cannot really discuss  Mr Lynch  's affairs because we have never received a report on his activities. That is a secret. I remind honourable senators that the Prime Minister once said: 
Ten per cent or even SO per cent of the truth is as good a way of misleading this Parliament . . . 
We still do not know the facts about  Mr Lynch.  A report has been prepared, but we have not been given a copy of it. Nevertheless,  Mr Lynch  was required to resign as soon as allegations were made against him. The next was  Senator Sheil,  who at Government House spoke rather indiscretely to a couple of reporters. He got knocked off that night. Next was the present Minister for Finance,  Mr Eric  Robinson, against whom some allegations of attempts to influence electoral redistribution commissioners had been made by a fellow Liberal member of Parliament.  Mr Robinson  was suspended from duty. Then there was  Senator Withers,  who was said by a judge conducting an inquiry to have acted improperly in telephoning the Chief Electoral Officer and suggesting a name for an electorate. At the worst, that was a peccadillo.  Senator Withers  was knocked off within 24 hours. 
It is terrible that he misled the Parliament about his role in the incident, but the incident itself was not terrible. He admitted that he had misled the Parliament. That was a peccadillo, but  Senator Withers  was sacked within 24 hours. These allegations about the former Minister for Primary Industry have been public knowledge for more than two years. A major report was tabled yesterday afternoon in the New South Wales Parliament, the salient facts of which were known by 3 o'clock by both the Government and the Opposition, and by the Press gallery and, very quickly, by most of the population of the country. What happened? Nothing at all happened for 12 hours, and only then because the Liberal Party back bench issued an ultimatum to  Mr Fraser  that, if  Mr Sinclair  did not go, he would. That is the only reason why he took action. If it was not for that,  Mr Sinclair  probably would still be the Minister for Primary Industry. 
Let us have some questions answered. Let us have the answer to these questions. Did the Prime Minister know about the round-robin? Did the Prime Minister know about the cheques, the so-called loans, the socalled repayments and the so-called reborrowings? They are answers this Parliament is entitled to know. This Parliament is entitled to know whether the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister were accessories after the fact to  Mr Sinclair's  business activities or whether they were extraordinarily gullible in not pressing  Mr Sinclair  to disclose the details of those financial activities. Either way, of course, they are not fit to hold high public office. 
Let us return to this statement: 'Judgments on Ministers are more exacting and sometimes more harsh than the judgments which might be passed on those outside the sphere of public life', said the Prime Minister in August 1978. How does that measure up against the facts? In 1977, the Government introduced what it called the beef industry incentives payment scheme. It was a panic measure prior to the 1 977 election, and it was estimated at the time that it would cost $100m. In fact it has cost about $1 17m. To administer that scheme the Department- that is  Mr Sinclair's  Department, or it was  Mr Sinclair's  Department up until last night- recruited, although not all at once, 24 temporary staff. Subsequently, one of those people recruited to administer the scheme was suspected of having lodged a fraudulent application for assistance under that scheme. He was suspended, and the Commonwealth Police were asked to investigate. They investigated and reported, the person concerned was charged, and convicted ultimately. But the important fact is that an employee of  Mr Sinclair's  Department was suspended on suspicion- before an investigation, before a report, and before a charge. The message that comes out of that is that a member of the Department of Primary Industry who is under suspicion of pinching money will be suspended, unless he happens to be the Minister, of course. That is the reality behind this pretentious rhetoric about the judgments on Ministers being more exacting and sometimes more harsh than the judgments which might be passed on those outside the sphere of public life. Incidentally, I should have mentioned that the Minister was notified of those incidents in his own Department. 
The truth is that this Government has multiple standards. It has one standard for employees of the Department of Primary Industry; it has a totally different and, I hasten to add, much less demanding standard for the Minister for Primary Industry. It has one standard for people such as  Senator Withers, Mr Eric  Robinson and  Mr Lynch,  and it has a different standard for  Mr Sinclair.  Given the Prime Minister's previous reverence for knowledge of the facts, his assertions that it is absolutely essential for this Parliament to be given the facts and that less than full disclosure of the facts is indistinguishable from the misleading of Parliament, I complain again about  Senator Carrick  's contempt for this Senate, expressed at Question Time this morning, when he was asked to disclose on behalf of the Prime Minister a fact which, if the Government was willing, it could have supplied in five minutes.  Senator Carrick  's answer was a request to put the question on notice. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) Under what Division and Item of the First Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935 are farmers exempted from paying sales tax on four-wheel-drive vehicles. 
Why does this exemption not extend to all primary producers, and in particular, why does it not extend to fishermen such as the abalone divers of Eden, New South Wales, who require four wheel drive vehicles to gain access to, and transport equipment to, areas where they fish. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and Minister representing the Prime Minister. It follows the not entirely definitive answer from  Senator Durack  regarding insider trading and the new companies legislation. Does the Government intend that the new legislation should prevent, for example, consulting geologists with their friends establishing a company to speculate in mining shares using, as an aid to successful speculation, assay information the geologists gain as consulting geologists to the company in whose shares they would speculate? Does the Prime Minister know that  Mr Noel  CrichtonBrowne was the major shareholder in such a company established by Burrill and Jones for mining speculation by them and, as they put it, their friends? Does the Prime Minister believe that  Mr Crichton-Browne  is an appropriate person to represent the Liberal Party in the national parliament? 
-I used to think that  Senator Messner-  although of course he was obliged because of his loyalty to the Government to put over some specious arguments from time to time- fundamentally understood these issues, but after hearing the speech he has just delivered I must say that I have been forced to revise that opinion. Among other things he said that an increase in the deficit inevitably leads to an increase in the money supply. As any first year economics student with an IQ above 85 should know- probably any high school economics student should know- an increase in the deficit not funded by loans from the public will increase the money supply. An increase in the deficit funded by loans from the public has no effect at all on the money supply. I have been forced to revise my opinion as to  Senator Messner  's technical grasp of some of the most fundamental questions which are raised by the Bill which is before the Senate tonight. 
-What did you say? 
What did the most inconsequential senator from South Australia say? I am afraid 1 did not hear what he said. He apparently is not willing to repeat it at a higher level so that I can hear what sort of nonsense is being brayed from his mouth. 
-Who said that? That, I think, was  Senator Chipp  who discovered principles when  Mr Fraser  sacked him from the Ministry. In 1975-- 
The honourable senator can argue about that later on. Perhaps he might also care to explain why he voted in 1 975 against the principle of disclosure of funding for political parties which he was espousing with a good deal of zeal earlier this afternoon. At the time the then Labor Government was bringing in legislation to compel political parties to do just that. 
Perhaps the honourable senator might even care to reply to my letter in the  National Farmer  of a few weeks ago. However, I digress, because the Bill before the Senate tonight is the Loan Bill. 
-Did I hear what? 
-Senator Chipp had better get down with all the other humbugs and frauds who are running around the place and not try to take me on. I repeat:  Senator Chipp  has just spoken;  Senator Chipp,  the man who discovered principles when  Mr Fraser  sacked him from the ministry in 1975.  Senator Chipp  was quite prepared to be a Minister in the illegitimate government which existed between 1 1 November and 13 December 1975. Then when  Mr Fraser  sacked him as a Minister in the legitimate Government following the 1975 election,  Senator Chipp  discovered principles. 
I can. I will tell honourable senators about  Senator Chipp  's letter in the  National Farmer,  if he wishes, but I am not going to be distracted too much from the subject matter of this debate. Obviously the truth hurts, as can be deduced from  Senator Chipp  's very voluble protests about the exposure of some of his sleazy past. To return to the subject matter of the Bill, in 1975 the then Opposition concocted what it proclaimed to be sinister motives for the introduction of an identical Bill. 
I do not want to become involved in a debate with the man who discovered principles when he was sacked from the Ministry nearly four years ago. I would be happy to debate that issue with him from a public platform at any time, but I do not want to debate it tonight. I want to talk about the Loan Bill. In 1975 the then Opposition, with the consent of  Senator Chipp,  I might add, concocted what it suggested were sinister motives for the production of such a Bill. It was said that the then government was trying to bypass the discipline of Parliament in funding government expenditure and so on, all of which, I mention again, had the tacit approval of  Senator Chipp,  since he remained silent and silence is consent. In particular, and I think this has to be quoted, when a similar Loan Bill was before the Senate on 15 October 1975,  Senator Withers  said: 
It is the intention of the Opposition to take steps to force this Government to an election for the House of Representatives. I say that now so that there can be no doubt abour our position. At the conclusion of my speech I will be moving an amendment. 
As  Senator Withers  promised, at the conclusion of his speech he moved this amendment: 
Leave out all the words after 'That' insert: this Bill be not further proceeded with until the Government agrees to submit itself to the judgment of the people, the Senate being of the opinion that the Prime Minister and his Government no longer have the trust and confidence of the Australian people because of- 
the continuing incompetence, evasion, deceit and duplicity of the Prime Minister and his Ministers as exemplified in the overseas loan scandal which was an attempt by the Government to subvert the Constitution, to by-pass Parliament and to evade its responsibilities to the States and the Loan Council; 
If I may interpolate, this Bill is outside the scrutiny of the Loan Council. From that fact, which had been a fact ever since Federation, the then Opposition tried to concoct some sinister motives for the introduction by the Labor Government in 1 975 of an identical Bill, apart from the figures.  Senator Withers'  amendment continued: 
the Prime Minister's failure to maintain proper control over the activities of his Ministers- 
Just imagine that! The amendment referred to the Prime Minister's failure to maintain proper control over the activities of his Ministers, which were seen to be reprehensible and extraordinary in 1 975 and apparently are seen to be quite predictable today. The amendment continued:  and Government to the detriment of the Australian nation and people: and 
the continuing mismanagement of the Australian economy by the Prime Minister and this Government with policies which have caused a lack of confidence in this nation's potential and created inflation and unemployment not experienced for 40 years. 
Of course, in the early 1950s, under that latter day immaculate economic engineer,  Sir Robert  Menzies, inflation was the highest it had ever been in Australia, so that was factually incorrect. Unemployment is now approximately 200,000 higher than it was when the then Leader of the Opposition in the Senate moved that amendment in 1975. Ultimately, of course, the then Opposition not only blocked that Bill but it also refused to pass the appropriation Bills. As a result of the disgraceful events with which we are all familiar the Parliament was dissolved on 1 1 November, lt is highly relevant to resurrect some of the assertions made by members of the then Opposition, all of whom- with the notable exception of  Senator Withers  and more recently  Mr Sinclair-  are now senior Ministers in the present Government. On the same day that this Bill was before the Senate in 1 975,  Mr Anthony  asked a question in the House of Representatives. He asked: 
Has the Prime Minister yet become aware of the fact that the people of Australia have lost confidence and trust in him and his crumbling government? 
One wonders whether  Mr Anthony  is now aware of the fact that just over 30 per cent of the Australian people have any confidence in the present Prime Minister and about 40 per cent have confidence in his Government.  Mr Anthony  continued: 
Does he know that the great majority of Australians are sick and tired of the smell of scandal that hangs around his Government- 
Sick and tired of the smell of scandal that hangs around his Government', said  Mr Anthony  in 1975-  and that they no longer believe that he and his Government are capable of governing or fit to govern? I again ask the Prime Minister: Will he do the decent thing and resign. 
So said  Mr Anthony  in 1975. Of course he was not the only person who is a senior Minister in the present Government who was making comments like that in those days. For example, the present and then  deputy  leader of the Liberal Party,  Mr Lynch,  said: 
Why did the Prime Minister refuse the request which I made of him yesterday to table all relevant documents in the overseas loan affair? 
Is it not an interesting proposition that all the relevant documents should have been tabled? There is a good deal to be said for that point of view. There is a great deal to be said for the point of view which asserts that it is about time  Mr Lynch,  who asked that question, tabled the documents pertaining to his land speculation activities in the Western Port Peninsula.  Mr Lynch,  who in 1975 was an adherent to the view that there was a responsibility on Ministers to table all relevant information, now asserts- with the full backing of the Prime Minister- that the public has no right to see the confidential report from his accountants, which the Prime Minister claims to have seen, regarding his land speculation and tax evasion activities. I note in passing that  Mr Lynch  has not only modified but also reversed his view in the last three years as to whether Ministers have an obligation to lay relevant documents on the table of the House of Representatives. On 15 October  Mr Lynch  concluded his question by asking: 
Has the Prime Minister made himself aware of all relevant documents in the loans affair? Will he now table all of those documents?' 
When will the right honourable member for Flinders table the report which he asserts, with the endorsement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  was prepared by his accountants and solicitors pertaining to his land speculation activities, aided by insider trading and tax avoidance activities- to use the euphemismrelated thereto. Then  Mr Sinclair,  by way of question on the same day, 15 October 1975, in the House of Representatives, asked: 
What is the Prime Minister's current attitude to the Westminster doctrine of ministerial responsibility? Does the Prime Minister accept any responsibility for any of the actions of his Ministers? 
That is a question which certainly, were it not for the sub judice rule, which I have no intention of breaching, could be posed to the Prime Minister of Australia today. Does the Prime Minister accept any responsibility for any of the actions of his Ministers? The supreme irony is that the person who in 1 975 asked that question of the then Prime Minister was none other than the former Minister for Primary Industry. He asked further: 
If not, what responsibility does he accept as leader of his Government? 
I am not going to judge anyone. 1 will deal with the honourable senator in a minute. That also is a highly relevant question which could be posed to the Prime Minister today. If not- if he does not accept responsibility for any of the actions of his Ministers- what responsibility for any of the actions of his Ministers- what responsibility does he accept as leader of his Government? I would love to get an answer to that question. 
In the last couple of weeks we have seen a great deal of synthetic outrage focussed on the bogus proposition that recently somebody has been maligned under parliamentary privilege without having an opportunity to reply. I want to make two observations on that. Firstly, the person concerned has had, in the last two years, unlimited opportunities to reply. As recently as Thursday, 27 September, he had unlimited opportunities to reply in the House of Representatives. How many people who are maligned or have aspersions cast upon their character or conduct under parliamentary privilege are given the opportunity of having unlimited time in the House of Representatives to reply to those aspersions? Very few have access to a forum that is as effective as the House of Representatives, and on 27 September last  Mr Sinclair  had access to it without time restriction. 
Goebbels used to assert that if a lie were repeated often enough it would be accepted as the truth. That principle seems to have been modified in Australia- a lie has only to be uttered once to be accepted in some quarters as the truth. One of the greatest lies of all in this particular incident is the statement that the person concerned has had no opportunity to defend himself. However, I note that  Mr Sinclair,  when speaking in the House of Representatives on 27 September, devoted a significant proportion of the time which he did take to a personal attack upon Creighton Walsh without providing independent corroboration or evidence. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) What action is proposed to implement the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission in its Report on Wheat Stabilization that an inquiry into grain pests be undertaken. 
) Why has no action yet been taken. 
When is the recommended inquiry to be undertaken, and by whom. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What energy research projects have been recommended for funding by the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council since its establishment. 
Which of these projects has the Minister actually approved for funding. 
What proportion of projects recommended by the Council for funding are associated with the development of nuclear energy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Minister or members of his personal staff met representatives from (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; (f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. It probably impinges on his responsibility as Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I ask the Attorney-General whether he has seen an article by a person called David McNicoll in the  Bulletin  of 1 6 October in which McNicoll states: 
There was a lot of discussion - 
That was in Sydney last week-  on the question of private and family companies, and the signatures which are necessary on various documents. One prominent commercial man told me that he'd been signing his wife's name on cheques and documents for the past 20 years to save her the trouble. Another told me that many of the practices which seemed to make Finnane wide-eyed with wonder were run-of-the-mill in private companies. Wrong and illegal, of course, but widespread. 
Does the Attorney-General conclude from this that many of David McNicoll's associates are habitual forgers, that forgery and malpractice are, to use  Mr McNicoll  's words, widespread or run of the mill among private companies in Sydney, and that effective national companies legislation is needed to curtail white collar crime? Is it a criminal offence in New South Wales for a person to have knowledge of a felony, forgery being a felony, and not report that knowledge to law enforcement authorities? 
The Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill 1979 reduces the bounty payable on nitrogenous fertilisers as from 1 January next from $40 per tonne of nitrogen content to $20 per tonne of nitrogen. The Opposition will be opposing, in the Committee stage, clause 4 which actually reduces the bounty from $40 to $20. This Bill is the final product of the series of announcements made on 24 May which constituted what was then deservedly known as the horror mini-budget. It was one of the announcements, made on that day, reducing Government assistance to agriculture or increasing Government charges to agriculture to a total of some $67m. The saving to expenditure in a full year of the operation of the Bill, if it is passed, will be in the vicinity of $5m or, putting it another way, it will halve the annual cost of the nitrogenous fertilisers bounty from the present $10m to about $5m. 
Shortly after the Fraser Government was elected, it embarked on a program to phase-out the nitrogenous fertilisers bounty which had stood for many years at a level of $80 per tonne of nitrogen. 
In the 1977-78 Budget legislation was introduced to reduce the bounty to $60 a tonne. At that time the Government promised that the payment would be maintained at that level. However, with the 1977 election safely out of the way, in the 1978-79 Budget the Government reduced the bounty from $60 to $40. The Bill which is before us tonight, consequential to the announcement made in May of this year, aims to reduce the bounty from $40 to $20 per tonne. 
Apart from the broken, dishonoured undertaking which was given in the 1977-78 Budget to maintain a bounty at a level of $60 per tonne, the Government has repudiated a more unequivocal and earlier promise by the former  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party and Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair.  Speaking during an election campaign prior to coming into government, quite ironically in Mackay in Queensland,  Mr Sinclair  said: 
I can give an unqualified assurance on behalf of the National Country Party, that in Government with the Liberal Party, we will restore the bounty on superphosphate and ensure that the Nitrogenous Fertilizer Bounty continues. 
I repeat: 
I can give an unqualified assurance ... in Government . . . that the Nitrogenous Fertilizer Bounty continues. 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, did not remove  Mr Sinclair  from the Ministry for his failure to honour that undertaking. I suppose one might well ask how  Mr Fraser  could remove anyone from anything for failure to honour any undertaking they might have given. How could he remove anyone for failing to honour an undertaking or a promise? He did, of course, remove  Mr Sinclair  almost two weeks ago fom the portfolio he had held, not because of any broken promise of  Mr Sinclair  but because  Mr Fraser  's own Liberal Party backbench had made it very clear to him that unless  Mr Sinclair  left the ministry  Mr Fraser  would be leaving the Prime Ministry. He was given the ultimatum that either Sinclair went or he went. That is the only reason he got rid of him. 
<para pgwide="yes">Despite the tirade of near continuous abuse of rhetoric which the Australian Labor Party faced when in government from 1972 to 1975, particularly from the National Country Party and to a somewhat lesser extent from the Liberal Party, the Labor Party maintained this bounty at its pre-existing level of $80 per tonne. It is worth examining the inconsistency in the record of the present Government as displayed by its attitude towards the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty and the superphosphate subsidy. The superphosphate subsidy, as some members of the Senate at least will remember, was enacted for a period of five years by this Government at the rate which had existed since 1967. That was $12 per tonne of superphosphate or $12 per tonne of 22 per cent P2O5 
We had unequivocal legislation introduced by the Government to pay that bounty at a level which had prevailed for some time for a period of five years. On the other hand the Government has extended the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty year by year for the last three years at a reduced rate. The clear implication of what it is doing this year and what it did last year is that next year the Government will phase out the bounty altogether. Of course, it may be deterred from doing that by the fact that next year will be an election year and it will probably wait, hoping to be re-elected in 1980- although that looks an increasingly forlorn hope- with the intention of passing legislation in 1981 to phase out the bounty from 1 January 1982. That is clearly the Government's intention. On the one hand, without any serious equivocation the Government enacts a superphosphate bounty for a period of five years all in one hit, on the other hand, in this instance, in a grudging, penny-pinching way it renews the bounty at a reduced rate for one season only. 
There appears to be some mystery about this record. I think the mystery can be fairly easily solved if honourable senators are aware of the extreme subjectivity of the Prime Minister and the degree to which his ideas dominate the policies of this Government. As is well known- I am sure  Senator McLaren  could speak for some time on this-  Mr Fraser  personally uses an enormous amount of superphosphate on his Western District property. 
The PRES DENT- You are imputing improper motives. Will you keep to the subject of debate, which is the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill 1979, and matters relevant to it. 
-With respect, I think that in debating this matter the inconsistent record of the Government in regard to the payment of a bounty on one type of fertiliser and the payment of bounty on another type is a matter which is relevant to the Bill and which quite reasonably ought to be considered by the Parliament. I was trying to present an hypothesis which I think is compatible with the facts that are known about this matter. There may be an alternative hypothesis which a member of the Government might care to pui up as to why the Government has adopted one course of action for one fertiliser subsidy and the opposite course of action for another fertiliser subsidy. I was not imputing any improper motives to the Prime Minister, I was just mentioning- I think it is a matter of record once again- that  Mr Fraser  is a highly subjective man and that he is well aware of the financial benefits to Western District landholders through the subsidy on superphosphate. He is not so aware of financial benefits to Queensland sugar growers from a subsidy on nitrogen because people in the Western District, and in Victoria as a whole, use very little nitrogen. I will be citing some figures on that shortly. 
I submit that that is an hypothesis which is at least compatible with the facts as they are known about this contradiction. I would welcome an alternative hypothesis from a Government member when he speaks on this Bill. Perhaps this alternative could be that this Government hates Queensland, because that is the effect of its actions in this matter. Quite clearly the Government's record in regard to these two subsidies discriminates very heavily against Queensland. The peak long term level of consumption of superphosphate in Queensland was in the calendar year 1974, when 80,000 tonnes of superphosphate was used. That was slightly under 2 per cent of the national consumption. On the other hand, for the 1966-67 season no less than 185,000 tonnes of nitrogenous fertilisers was used in Queensland, which is some 57 per cent of the national consumption of nitrogenous fertilisers. My source for those figures is the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Superphosphate is almost irrelevant to Queensland, since its consumption is so small, but nitrogenous fertilisers are quite important. I daresay my colleague,  Senator Keeffe,  will be expanding on this point when he speaks, probably tomorrow. 
The major crops on which nitrogen is used do include cereal crops which, contrary to popular belief, in aggregate do use more nitrogenous fertilisers than does sugar cane. That was the case when the Industries Assistance Commission made its study. In total, cereal crops used 37.5 per cent, sugar cane used 30.5 per cent and pasture used 20.7 per cent. Then came a number of minor categories of usage. Of course, virtually all Australian sugar is grown in Queensland and the cereal crops upon which nitrogenous fertilisers are used are also grown in Queensland to a very significant degree. Those two crops account for Queensland's using somewhat more than half the total nitrogenous fertiliser used in Australia. The fact that the Government has done one thing with respect to superphosphate and something quite different- almost contradictory- with respect to nitrogenous fertiliser, coupled with its importance to the State of Queensland, constitutes discrimination against Queensland by the Government. It also reflects very badly and sadly on the Queensland politicians, both in this chamber and in the House of Representatives. They are clearly incompetent at pushing the interests of their State before this Government. 
Primarily the Country Party, but the other party as well. I note that two Queensland members of the House of Representatives spoke on this Bill in the House last week. Neither of them opposed it.  Mr Braithwaite,  the honourable member for Dawson, spoke - 
Yes, until the next election.  Mr Braithwaite  spoke mostly about indexation and then said that what we really need is a new report on this matter by the Industries Assistance Commission. I am not sure whether I should call the Liberal member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  a colleague of the honourable member for Dawson or not, because the way things have been going in Queensland lately between the Liberals and the National Country Party it is probably somewhat of a misnomer to describe them as colleagues or allies. The honourable member for Herbert, despite his claim that the Government is not using the IAC report as a crutch- that is, the IAC recommendation of some years ago that the subsidy be phased outlike the honourable member for Dawson, then fell back on the IAC and said that another IAC report was needed. Of course, that implied that the Government is obliged to implement the recommendations of the IAC. All honourable senators know that that is patent nonsense. What do they call that party in Queensland- the National Party? It changes its name so often that it is hard to keep up with it. Presumably that is in the hope of not being recognised. 
I will say something about Flo in a minute. Three other National Country 
Party members whose electorates are substantially affected by this measure did not bother to speak at all. I refer to the honourable member for Wide Bay,  Mr Millar,  the temporary member for Leichhardt,  Mr Thomson,  and of course  Mr McVeigh,  the honourable member for Darling Downs, who despite his well earned reputation as one of the most, if not the most, verbose members of the House of Representatives declined to speak on this Bill. It will be interesting to see the degree, if any, to which the situation changes if  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen  should become a member of this Senate. I do not know what will happen to nitrogenous fertilisers, but if that does happen I guess we can expect to see Brych's medicine being advocated in the Senate and Butler's economics. I am referring to Butler of the League of Rights. That should be an entertaining spectacle. I will resist the temptation to savour those delights any more. As I have stated already, the Opposition intends to oppose clause 4 of the Bill, thereby maintaining the bounty at $40 a tonne. We believe that it is a particularly inappropriate time to reduce the bounty when consumers of nitrogenous fertilisers, principally sugar producers, are being subjected to this double squeeze, with an enormous increase in the price of nitrogenous fertilisers - 
Debate interrupted. 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether he can find out and tell the Senate what criteria the Prime Minister specifies for the return to the Ministry of a former Minister sacked by the Prime Minister for impropriety? Does the Prime Minister stipulate that new facts exonerating the former Minister must be produced prior to ministerial rehabilitation? 
-My speech was almost completed when the Senate adjourned last night. I do not propose to emulate the example of ex-Senator Wood and repeat on air today the speech that I gave last night. The point that I was in the process of completing last night before the Senate adjourned was an important one, and I will take a few minutes to make it today. This seems to be a particularly inappropriate time for the Government to be reneging on its multiple past promises to maintain the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty at a higher level than it now proposes. 
The sugar industry, which is the most important single user of nitrogenous fertilisers- even more than the wheat industry- is faced with a recession in the international sugar market. Something like three-quarters of Australian sugar is exported which is very important for Australian sugar producers. In addition, the sugar producers are being subjected to a two-way cost squeeze in regard to nitrogenous fertilisers. Nitrogenous fertiliser prices are escalating at a very rapid rate because of the Government's import parity pricing for crude oil. The fact is that oil refineries provide the major raw material source for nitrogenous fertilisers. Compounding that squeeze, which is partly due to market forces but mainly due to Government policy decisions in other areas, is the Government's further policy decision to reduce the bounty on this product. 
The Opposition, in the Committee stage, will be voting against clause 4 of the Bill. The purpose for doing so is to maintain the bounty at its existing level of $40 per tonne. If clause 4 is deleted from the amending Bill section 10 of the Principal Act, which stipulates that the bounty should be payable at $40 per tonne of nitrogen content, will be maintained in its present wording. Although some sections of the public are probably becoming somewhat hardened and somewhat conditioned to repeated repudiation of guarantees of promises made by various Ministers and former Ministers in this Government, I think it ought to be stated again that apart from the guarantee the whole Government gave in 1977 to maintain the bounty at the recently reduced rate of $60 per tonne, this provision is a flagrant and complete repudiation of the unqualified assurance given by the former  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party and Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair.  In an election campaign in the city of Mackay in Queensland- when speaking as a member of the Opposition, of course- he said: 
I can give an unqualified assurance on behalf of the National Country Party, that in Government with the Liberal Party, we will restore the bounty on superphosphate and ensure that the Nitrogenous Fertilizer Bounty continues. 
At that time the bounty was being paid at $80 a tonne. The Government now proposes to reduce it to $20 a tonne. I think it is very important that the citizens of the city of Mackay, where the statement was made in one of the major sugar growing areas of Queensland and, of course, of Australia, should be aware of the precise value of an unqualified assurance from a  deputy  leader of the National Country Party on behalf of the National Country and Liberal parties. 
-The Opposition will be opposing clause 4. We intend to divide on it. I will give a brief explanation as to the reasons. We could not oppose the entire Bill because, if we succeeded, the subsidy would cease entirely on 1 January 1 980. By opposing clause 4, and we hope to oppose it successfully, the rest of the amending Bill then standing, the subsidy would continue to be paid at a rate of $40 a tonne in the calendar year 1 980. The only other comment that I have to make is that this will be an excellent opportunity for the senators from Queensland to demonstrate their commitment to the welfare of Queensland 's primary industry. As I mentioned last night, Queensland used some 57 per cent in 1 976-77- which is the most recent year for which authoritative figures are available- of all the nitrogenous fertiliser used in Australia. In dividing on this clause, we are providing an opportunity for all of the senators from Queensland to demonstrate the depth of their commitment to Queensland agriculture by voting against the clause. 
Question put- 
That the clause be agreed to. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether restrictions have been imposed on borrowings by the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia and specifically whether that Bank's borrowings will require Loan Council approval or be otherwise restricted by the Loan Council. What is the reason for these restrictions? Is it to protect the Primary Industry Bank of Australia from the lower interest and other charges which are available from the Commonwealth Development Bank? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
How many loans has: (a) the Primary Industry Bank of Australia made for the purchase of a first farm since the Bank opened; and (b) the Commonwealth Development Bank made to borrowers purchasing their first farm during the same period. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
1 ) Did the Japanese squid fishing vessels working in Australian waters during 1978 operate for a season of less than four months. 
Is an objective of these joint feasibility fishing studies to establish whether squid fishing in Australian waters is feasible on a year round basis; if so, how will this be determined if Japanese vessels operate for only a three month season. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
Have the foreign vessels permitted to fish in Australian waters been guaranteed supplies of distillate; if so, will any limits be imposed on that supply. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
1 ) Are Japanese vessels fishing for squid in Australian waters using squid jig machines or mesh nets. 
Has the use of mesh nets been banned in Japanese waters. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister permitted two Polish trawlers to fish within 200 miles of the Australian coast, on the condition that they travel to mid-water; if so, what measures have been taken to ensure they restrict their travelling to mid-water. 
Are the two vessels approximately 88 metres in length. 
Will no State register Australian vessels longer than 45 metres; and has registration of vessels longer than 32 metres been heavily restricted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) What insecticide does the Plague Locust Commission use for ground and aerial spraying and 
Has Lindane ever been used. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
On what dates since 10 December 1977 has the Treasurer or members of his personal staff met representatives from: (a) Canberra Liaison Pty Ltd; (b) Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd; (c) Peter Cullen Pty Ltd; (d) Dunkley International Ltd; (e) Ronald C. Fisher Trade Consultants Pty Ltd; (f) Denis M. Gilmour and Associates Pty Ltd; (g) International Public Relations; (h) Macintosh, Parkes and Associates; (i) Eric Walsh Pty Ltd; and (j) Eric White Associates. 
What organisations was each firm representing on each occasion. 
What was the name of each person present on each occasion. 
Where did each meeting take place and what was its duration. 
I seek leave to make a statement. 

Leave granted. 
Firstly, as far as I am aware, it is without precedent that, by way of a personal explanation, an honourable senator should take the opportunity to reply to a statement that was not made inside the Parliament; but leaving that aside, I will grant  Senator Chipp  the privilege of making the statements that he has made.  His  explanation for having said that the Democrats, whom he expects will hold the balance of power after 1980, will introduce private member's Bills to do three things appears to be that, from the Bills that he proposes to introduce, the sections that actually appropriate the money will be omitted and therefore the Bills will not be disqualified by virtue of section 53 of the Constitution. What he is really saying is that the Democrats propose to introduce meaningless Bills as some sort of a political stunt by which they hope to secure support within the country, without delivering the goods that they have promised to deliver. If that is what  Senator Chipp  is saying, I think the description 'Democrat deceit' was appropriate. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  It concerns security in Parliament House. Yesterday in a personal explanation  Senator Chipp  quoted from the document Rural Digest', which is prepared and distributed by me. At the time  Senator Chipp  spoke, to the best of my knowledge only three copies of it were in existence- one in my office; one in Curtin House, where it was sent to  Mr Ferguson;  and the original in the Senate reproduction room, where it may have been in the process of being reproduced. I have contacted Curtin House and  Mr Ferguson  has assured me that he has not given this document to anyone. Although this document was not confidential, it could have been. Will you,  Mr President,  inquire into security in Parliament House to establish whether, and if so, how, the document was purloined, and if it was not purloined, how it came into  Senator Chipp  's hands at the time it did? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
Does the Commonwealth Government in any way regulate the maximum allowable limit of mercury in shark and other fish sold for human consumption, if so: (a) by what means are maximum limits set in each State; and (b) what are the maximum limits in each State. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) How many foreign vessels have been permitted to fish within 200 miles of the Australian coast this year. 
How many of those vessels are Japanese squid fishing vessels. 
What Australian partners are involved in these joint feasibility fishing operations, and how many vessels are associated with each of the Australian partners. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I am not able to speak at length on this paper. Although I asked the office of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  for a copy of this report earlier today, I was told that it was not available. It was in the Treasurer's office but the Treasurer refused to make it available, although evidently it was procured by, if not made available to, some sections of the Press yesterday. A report on this document appeared in today's  Australian Financial Review  and possibly in some other newspapers. So, I put on the record that I think that it is a rather extraordinary procedure for the Government to refuse to make a copy of this report available to a member of the Opposition on the morning after it has been published in the Press. 
After having a few moments to examine the report, it having been dropped in the boxes apparently some time after the Senate commenced sitting, I would like to make a couple of comments on it. There appears to be nothing in the document about the directive which was issued by the bank on or about 1 July this year to its agents to cease approving new loans because the bank had run out of money, much less any explanation as to why the manager of the bank,  Mr Frearson,  subsequently denied that any such directive had been issued. I did not expect that the report of the institution would explain why the general manager of the Primary Industry Bank of Australia had issued that misleading and false statement regarding the directive which the bank issued on or about that date. I do not expect that we will find out why that was done from this Government, either. 
There are some other matters arising from the report. My comments are based on a necessarily very quick perusal of it. I note that in the general report it is stated that approvals of loans to the end of June totalled some $126m. At that stage deposits lodged with the bank were $68m, as shown in the balance sheet, and $30m was obtained from Commonwealth of Australia income equalisation deposits. However, as far as the public knew at that stage, the public borrowings of the bank had not exceeded $50m. The statement in the balance sheet is that deposits received by 30 June, exclusive of income equalisation deposits lodged by the Commonwealth, were $68m. As far as the public knew at that stage, deposits were only $50m. From what was publicly available at 30 June, the indications were that the bank's total funds were $50m from public borrowing, $30m from income equalisation deposits and, of course, the bank's initial capital, which made a total of something like $86m. 
In the text of the report, it is stated by the  chairman  that as at 30 June borrowings totalled $88m and that loans totalling $126m had been approved. I do not know how the figure of $88m, which is given as borrowings for that time, can be reconciled with the figure of deposits plus the loan from the Commonwealth of Australia, which totals $98m at 30 June and which is the amount given in the balance sheet. I guess there is some explanation for that; it is just that it is an explanation that is not obvious. Moreover the balance sheet contains an item of Slim for subordinated loans issued before 30 June. From a subsequent item it appears that these subordinated loans were obtained from prime lenders; that is, from the agents of the bank. If that is so, to the best of my knowledge there was no information publicly available on 30 June, or even now when the report has finally been tabled, as to the existence of those loans by the bank's prime lenders to the institution. In other words, this report of the Primary Industry Bank raises a number of quite significant questions to which it appears at this stage there are no answers. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 23 October 1979: 
Will details of catches by Japanese long line tuna fishermen licensed under the Agreement on Fisheries between the Government of Australia and the Government of Japan, reported under Article VI 1. (b) of the Subsidiary Agreement, be made public? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen reports which state that the National Country Party conference last weekend carried a motion urging the introduction of stage 2 of the fuel freight subsidy scheme- which is often misleadingly and inaccurately referred to as the fuel price equalisation scheme- to offset rocketing fuel prices in country areas? Is it correct that stage 2 would reduce prices by a maximum of 0.44c- less than half a cent- a litre, or about one-tenth of the July 1 979 price increase caused by the Government's import parity pricing policy for domestic crude oil, and also about one-tenth of the likely 1 January increase if the Government sticks to its import parity pricing policy? 
-I wish to speak on the first reading stage on the Canned Fruits Levy Bill 1 979.I am prompted to do so partly by the record of an interview with the present Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Nixon,  which was printed in the issue of the  National Farmer  dated 1 November. This issue was just released this afternoon.  Mr Nixon  was questioned on a matter upon which he had previously been questioned in the Parliament by the honourable member for Grey,  Mr Wallis.  The matter is the question of air freighted exports of lamb carcasses from Western Australia to the Middle East. The Western Australian Lamb Marketing Board has for some time been attempting to obtain approval from the Department of Transport for a charter operator who has agreed to transport lamb from Western Australia to the Middle East to secure back-loading. The air freighting operation is not economical unless back-loading can be secured. The Lamb Board claims that the value of sales from this exercise, if approval for back-loading could be achieved, is in the vicinity of $26m a year. 
I might add also that the export of lamb carcasses is something that generates employment in Australian abattoirs and might well make a considerable contribution towards easing the lamentable tensions which have developed in the last couple of years between the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union and various farmer organisations. Normally one would expect a Minister for Primary Industry, particularly one who claims to have particular empathy with the fanning community, to react favourably to this proposition.  Mr Nixon  not only has failed to react favourably to the proposition in refusing the grant that approval for back-loading for the Western Australian Lamb Board 's charter operator but also has, in fact, stood truth on its head. 
In a question- I am quoting from the  National Farmer-  a journalist asked: 
There has been some suggestion that your two portfolios are in conflict,  expecially  in the area of meat and the backloading restrictions placed on lamb airfreighted to the Middle East. 
That question was prompted by the earlier question which was put to the Minister in the House of Representatives by the honourable member for Grey,  Mr Wallis. Mr Nixon's  extraordinary reply was: 
There's a simple answer on that. The fact is that these people are seeking to subsidise the freight on lamb by increasing the cost of passenger tickets. It's as simple as that. 
That is according to  Mr Nixon.  In fact, what the Western Australian Lamb Board 's charter operator is seeking to do is to gain permission from an ostensibly free enterprise Government to compete in the market place for freight back to Australia. It is not a question of passengers subsidising freight. It is a question of being granted the opportunity by an ostensibly free enterprise Government to compete for business in the market place. 
The action which the responsible Minister of this Government has taken is to deny the operator the opportunity to compete for business in the market place for whatever reason the Minister might have. That is the decision that he has taken. He then has the audacity to stand truth on its head by saying that some people seek to subsidise the freight on lamb at the cost of passenger tickets. If there is any validity at all in the points that he is raising, what he is clearly trying to do is to force freight to subsidise passenger tickets. The truth is in fact the reverse of that which  Mr Nixon  claims it to be. I do not know whether that extraordinary incapacity for logical thought has anything to do with the workload he is currently carrying. 
The fact that he holds two jobs, both of which have, I understand, quite substantial or very significant administrative responsibilities, ought to be in itself a matter that concerns the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The fact that he holds two jobs in which a blatant conflict of interest arises ought to concern everyone in the country, particularly the agricultural sector. It ought to concern  Mr Nixon's  Party if it wants to have any credibility at all as the party which claims to represent the agricultural sector. If he is not over worked in those two portfolios, if he can quite easily handle the workload of them, it must flow logically that the arrangement of the combination of those two departments under one Minister ought to be made permanent. I would like to know what is the view of  Mr Nixon  on the matter of whether those two departments ought to be permanently combined. 
I think I can anticipate what the view of  Senator Wriedt  would be on that matter having been for two and a half years Minister for Primary Industry- or Minister for Agriculture as he was called- under the Labor Government. I think he would know very well that it is not possible for any person, let alone someone who has such a demonstrable incapacity for logical thinking as  Mr Nixon  has shown he has in the  National Farmer,  adequately to discharge on a continuing basis the workload of the Department of Transport in addition to that of the Department of Primary Industry.  Senator Wriedt  has just nodded his assent to that proposition. He knows what the workload is for the Minister for Primary Industry. He knows that that portfolio is a full time job for anyone. It is disgraceful that the Prime Minister allows this present situationthis present hiatus- to continue. 
It is well known that whatever the outcome might be of legal proceedings at present in train against the former Minister for Primary Industry, the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  will not be completed before the middle of next year at the very earliest. Yet the Prime Minister is apparently quite happy to allow this present situation to drift. To  Senator Webster  and to  Senator Carrick  as the Minister representing the Prime Minister- I hope he later returns to the chamber- I again put the question: Is the Government satisfied that  Mr Nixon  can handle adequately those two portfolios? If the Government is so satisfied, will it make an announcement that the amalgamation of those portfolios will be permanent? If the Government does not intend to make that announcement, when can we expect the Prime Minister to accept his duties as the leader of this Government and make an acceptable ministerial arrangement for the Department of Primary Industry, and, of course, for the Department of Transport. 
I want to raise one other matter. On 27 September a report of an investigation into irregularities concerning the administration of a number of companies was tabled in the New South Wales Parliament. There was nothing either unprecedented or wrong with the tabling of that report. Indeed, there have been at least a dozen precedents in the New South Wales Parliament for such a practice to be followed. The best known precedent is probably the investigation conducted by  Mr Spender-  if he is not the Vice-President of the New South Wales branch of the Liberal Party he is a very prominent member of it- into Gollin Holdings Ltd, as a result of which some 12 months later  Mr Gale,  the Chief Executive of that company, was charged with various offences and ultimately sentenced to 13 years imprisonment. I stress the point that there was nothing irregular, improper or unprecedented about the action that was taken in the New South Wales Parliament on 27 September when the Finnane report was tabled. However, that was not the view of a number of other people. For example, the Leader of the National Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  said: 
This is the most grave injustice, the most complete perversion of natural justice, that I have ever seen in this country. 

 - Senator Webster has just indicated his total agreement with that judgment. I wonder how  Senator Webster  would react to such as situation. Indeed, I welcome the release of a Press statement from  Senator Webster  today on the tabling of another report in the New South Wales Parliament yesterday. I point to the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  for  Senator Webster's  edification. An article in that newspaper states: 
These persons were influential members of ... an organisation responsible for the disappearance and murder of Donald Mackay. 
The headline is: 'Murder Inc.'. It carries the photographs and names of five people who were alleged in this report to have been associated with the disappearance and murder of Donald Mackay. I have no intention of passing judgment on the validity or otherwise of those allegations. The plain fact is that they were contained in a report tabled yesterday in the New South Wales Parliament to which not one whimper of objection has been evoked from the National Country Party or the Liberal Party. Indeed, the Leader of the Opposition in the New South Wales Parliament, who is a member of the Liberal Party, appeared on a current affairs program last night and applauded the tabling of that report.  Senator Webster  intimated that he agrees with  Mr Anthony.  On 28 September when a report of an investigation was tabled- it was with respect to someone else, of course-  Mr Anthony  said: 
This is the most grave injustice, the most complete perversion of natural justice, that I have ever seen in this country. 

 Senator Webster has just aligned himself with those sentiments. Why then has not  Senator Webster  issued a statement protesting about the naming of these five people and, indeed, three or four other people, in another report tabled yesterday in the New South Wales Parliament? I guess that the real reason is that one is allowed to do anything to a few people of Italian descent who live in Leeton, but that one should not do anything to members of the Sydney White Anglo-Saxon Protestant establishment. To show that the Liberal Party and the National Country Party have no monopoly on humbug and hyprocrisy I will quote from the Sydney  Sunday Telegraph  of 30 September. Amongst other things its editorial stated: 
Then, without charges being laid, the findings were tabled in Parliament . . . 
It went on to say: 
It may very well be that the New South Wales Government will find that instead of  Mr Sinclair  it is itself on trial . . . 
The Sydney  Sunday Telegraph  said that without charges being laid the findings were tabled in Parliament. Its stable mate, the  Daily Telegraph  found nothing objectionable in the recent tabling of a report. Indeed, there is nothing objectionable in its tabling because it is a well established practice which has been followed for years in the State of New South Wales and to which there had been no objection until a member of the WASP establishment was involved in the tabling of one of these reports. But the humbug and hypocrisy of that newspaper is demonstrated by the fact that in one instance it said that the tabling of a report was a grave injustice, but then in another instance its stable mate actually printed on its front page: 
These persons were influential members of ... an organisation responsible for the disappearance and murder of Donald Mackay. 
It then showed the photographs and names of those people. Underneath that it had a headline in three inch block letters: 'Murder Inc.'. Basically the same newspaper, the  Sunday Telegraph,  said in a different context that the New South Wales Government should have been on trial and that it was highly irresponsible in naming in a parliamentary report a person who then could not possibly obtain a fair trial in the State of New South Wales. How then will these five Italians obtain a fair trial in the State of New South Wales if that assertion is correct? 
-Why has  Senator Webster  not objected to the present report? Why has there been highly selective indignation by  Senator Webster  and the National Country Party? 
I am not objecting to it; it is a practice that has been followed in New South Wales for many years. In both cases the following of that practice was quite proper. The reason that I raise the matter in the Senate this afternoon is to demonstrate the selective indignation, the humbug and the hypocrisy of the Liberal and Country Parties and of" substantial sections of the Australia media. 
Yes, humbug and hypocrisy. I do not suppose the honourable senator cares about some of his fellow ethnics either. Perhaps they are not members of the Liberal Party, so I would suggest that he does not have to protect them. That might be his view.  Mr Anthony,  of course, was not the only member of this Parliament who feigned outrage at the- I stress again- completely normal procedures followed with respect to the tabling of the Finnane report. In his electorate talk on 30 September the Prime Minister said:  no prosecution has yet been launched. No official charges have been made by the law authorities in New South Wales, but a most damaging report has been published, and widely publicised. 
Is it reasonable for such a report to be published in these circumstances? 
I suppose the answer to that question is, to some degree, a matter of opinion. It is quite clear that in the circumstances of  Mr Sinclair  the Prime Minister thinks it is not reasonable that it should have been published prior to charges being laid. The Prime Minister, however, has not expressed a view on whether it is reasonable that the findings against these five men, whose photographs appear in the  Daily Telegraph,  and a number of other men, should have been tabled in the New South Wales Parliament yesterday, much less expressed his outrage that it should have been done. 
Is it reasonable for a report to be published in those circumstances? Is it reasonable for a government to undertake actions of that kind, to publish such a report when it has not yet made up its mind whether it intends to prosecute? That was the Prime Minister's view in one instance. What is his view in the instance of the report tabled yesterday? What was his view when the Gollin report was first tabled 12 months before charges were finally laid? What was the Prime Minister's view on that? In other words, the Prime Minister's indignation is as highly selective as  Senator Webster's  and  Mr Anthony's.  The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)-  well known as the froth and bubble man of the Government- was even more outraged in the debate in Parliament on 27 September when he said: 
We are on trial and, yes, the fourth estate is on trial. 

 Mr Killen said that the Press was on trial. But what has  Mr Killen  had to say about this Sydney newspaper, this copy of the  Daily Telegraph  that I hold in my hand with the photographs of five Italians appearing over the headline: 
Murder Inc. 
These persons were influential members of ... an organisation responsible for the disappearance and murder of Donald Mackay. 
Again, the same highly selective indignation.  Mr Killen  continued: 
. because one must remember the great occasions in the past when men and women fought for great rights. Now, what is the case? I have complained about this miserable proceeding in the past. I will continue to complain about it. 
He has not complained about that. He has not complained about what happened yesterday. He continued: 
I believe that a very great disservice has been done and is being done to our history. 
That was his view on 27 September. His view today is that it is quite acceptable for an identical procedure to be followed. Then we have the 
Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott),  who is best remembered as the man who spent six hours poring over Khemlani 's suitcases in Sydney on or about 13 October 1975 and who, before departing from Sydney airport, told journalists that the documents in the cases did not incriminate  Mr Whitlam.  He then arrived in Canberra half an hour later and was immediately summoned to the office of the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Fraser.  He emerged from that office half an hour later saying, yes, they did incriminate  Mr Whitlam.  That is the sort of consistency one can expect from him! He has not let us down in this instance, either, because on 27 September in Parliament he said: 
Anyone who may be selected to serve on a jury in New South Wales to try this matter will have his mind poisoned by what has happened in the newspapers. 
I interpolate 'Anyone would have their minds poisoned', said  Mr Ellicott,  'by what was in the newspapers today'. Is he suggesting that it is less likely that anyone would have their mind poisoned by the headline 'Murder lnc' which appeared in today's  Daily Telegraph"!  Yet where has  Mr Ellicott  's voice of protest been in the last 24 hours? Why have we not heard from him? Why has not  Mr Ellicott  been as outraged by the proceedings and the Press reaction to the matter today as he was on 27 September? Again I can only come to the same conclusion with respect to  Mr Ellicott  that I did with respect to  Senator Webster,  and that is that if a person is of Italian extraction living in Leeton, he is fair game, anything can be done to him and there is no need to protest. On the other hand, if one is a member of the Sydney White Anglo-Saxon Protestant establishment, one is supposed to be protected by that establishment. That appears to be their judgment.  Mr Ellicott  continued: 
The document was brought down yesterday - 
I would welcome from either  Senator Baume  or  Mr Ellicott  or the Prime Minister or  Senator Webster  or  Mr Anthony  the reason why they were so indignant about a particular proceeding being followed six weeks ago and a particular Press reaction to it, and why they are quite oblivious to the situation today. I would welcome an explanation of that double standard.  Mr Ellicott  continued: 
The document was brought down yesterday; unfortunately it has been made public. The right honourable member has been deprived of a fair trial . . . 
In Parliament the Prime Minister himself said: 
What has been going on in New South Wales has been no judicial process at all. There is no finding, no judgment of guilt or of innocence, no opportunity for the ordinary processes of law to apply- of innocence until guilt is proved. Indeed, the whole process of this parliamentary Opposition and, it would seem, the inquiry itself, is to establish a circumstance in which people will assume guilt . . . 
Although he purported to be outraged by the procedures which had been followed on 27 September, he was notably not outraged by identical procedures before 27 September, and he is not outraged by identical procedures followed yesterday. 
With a special investigation or a royal commission the practice for many years in New South Wales has been that the reports are tabled in Parliament. They have certain findings, and some of the findings of that report which was tabled yesterday have appeared in today's Press. Some of the findings of the Finnane report also appeared in the Press. There were findings that certain people had committed unlawful acts and no charges were laid. 

 - Senator Lajovic's indignation is just as selective as that of the Prime Minister, of  Mr Anthony,  of  Senator Webster,  of  Mr Killen  and of  Mr Ellicott.  He does not care what happens to anyone under these circumstances unless they happen to be members of the establishment, in particular members of the Government parties in this Parliament. 
It took a while to prick the honourable senator's conscience. He has not complained about the  Daily Telegraph,  I notice. He was quite willing to follow the  Daily Telegraph  a few weeks ago, but he has not complained about its behaviour today. There are numerous other examples which I could quote. From the same Press group as the  Daily Telegraph,  that is the paper which prints Murder lnc' under the photograph of five people mentioned in the report, the  Australian  states: 
Secret society killed anti-drug campaigner. 
The  Australian  has found these people guilty. What did the  Australian  say on 29 September with respect to the tabling in Parliament initially and then the publication of extracts from another report? It stated: 
The findings of these inquiries should not be tabled in Parliament. Either they establish a case, and the AttorneyGeneral institutes legal proceedings, or they fail to establish a case and he drops the matter. There are no in betweens. To table allegations in Parliament is to create an entirely new plane of 'justice'- the smear from behind a protective cloak of parliamentary privilege. 
I ask honourable senators to contrast that sanctimony from an  Australian  editorial five or six weeks ago with its finding today on the front page under the heading: 
Secret society killed anti-drug campaigner. 
It is quite willing to hide behind a protective cloak of parliamentary privilege and not only make allegations against people, but also find them guilty. I say again in mitigation, however miniscule the mitigation might be, of the offences of the inconsistencies of the Liberal and Country Parties, that they have no monopoly of double standards, humbug and hypocrisy. In fact, I think they are worthy competitors with the Murdoch Press in those areas. Warren Beeby in the  Sunday Telegraph  of 30 September, the same issue of the paper from which I have already quoted, said this: 
Inquiries are held in camera and deny the person under investigation the right granted to those who are tried before courts to cross-examine and challenge the credibility of witnesses. The inquiry is informal and of a very loose legal nature. 
Dropped in Parliament under privilege, the reports give an 'outsider' little chance of adequately refuting the socalled evidence. 
His complaint there is that those who were examined in the case of the earlier report had no opportunity to cross-examine witnesses. Exactly that same procedure was followed with respect to the report tabled yesterday. I will be interested to see whether Warren Beeby is equally outraged by the procedures followed yesterday and whether the Sydney  Sunday Telegraph  next Sunday reports the event in the same manner that it reported the earlier Finnane report. 
Judging from the examples set by its stablemate, by its brother or sister paper, by the daily version of the  Sunday Telegraph  today, these persons were influential members of an organisation responsible for the disappearance and murder of Donald Mackay. Their names and photographs appear and directly underneath is the three-inch headline 'Murder Inc.'. I think it highly unlikely. 
I notice also that the National Council of the National Country Party passed a motion last Sunday. The  Age  quoted  Mr Sparkes  as declaring that  Mr Sinclair  was the victim of a conspiracy. I think that statement perhaps is arguably in contempt of court si:;ce the matter is now before the court. I wonder whether the next Council of the National Country Party will be as eager to go into bat for the five Italians whose photographs appear in today's newspaper and the four other people who were named in a report tabled yesterday as being associated with them in a particular matter. Somehow I do not think it will. Somehow I think that to the National Country Party, even though all people might be equal, a Minister in a Liberal-Country Party coalition government is more equal than half a dozen Italians from Griffith. 

 - Senator Webster tells me it is a lot of rubbish. As  Senator Wriedt  said a while ago,  Senator Webster  is entitled to rise when I have finished. I hope he does and explains why he was so outraged by the events in the New South Wales Parliament on 26 September and the Press reaction to them; why  Mr Anthony  was so outraged by them; why the National Country Party was outraged by them; why  Mr Killen  was outraged; why  Mr Ellicott  was outraged; why the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was outraged, when none of them have uttered a word of protest about what happened in the New South Wales Parliament yesterday.  Senator Webster  is not equal to the task of explaining why all those other people were outraged in the earlier instance and not outraged by either the Gollin case, which preceded the Finnane report by nearly two years, or by the one that came after it. Why is it that they are outraged by the one in the middle, but the 12 or 13 that came before and the one that came after do not move them at all?  Senator Webster  perhaps cannot answer for the Prime Minister and all those other people. I look forward to his explaining on his own behalf why he was so outraged by that one isolated case and not outraged by anything either before or afterwards. 
In closing- I have said this before, but this speech is being broadcast and some people might have just tuned in- I stress that I am not suggesting that there was anything improper about the procedures followed in the New South Wales Parliament on 26 September or the procedures followed in the New South Wales Parliament yesterday or, indeed, the procedures followed in the New South Wales Parliament for some five or six years, or the procedures recommended by the Eggleston committee of inquiry. 

 - Senator Rae has a particular interest in legal matters. He should be aware of this. The procedures - 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Peter  Baume) adjourned. 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall' move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act to ensure that Aboriginal Electors of the Commonwealth in Western Australia are not prevented from enrolling for elections for the Western Australian Parliament. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether he has seen a report in the  West Australian  of 3 November that a Western Australian meat exporter has labelled finely cut mutton as beef. Is the report correct? If so, will he protect the good name of all other exporters at present under suspicion by naming the offending exporter? What action will be taken against the offending exporter? 
I seek leave to make a short statement. 
Motion (by  Senator Walsh)  agreed to: 
That the second reading be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 20 March 1 979: 
1 ) Will the Minister undertake to find out whether Eric White Associates, appointed by him as co-ordinators of the National Energy Study Team, (a) have as clients any oil companies; and (b) are retained by (i) any energyproducing companies; or (ii) any companies the products of which are dependent on high energy consumption; if not, why not. 
Does the Minister's failure to supply an answer to Part 3 of Senate Question No. 1032 (see  Hansard,  27 February 1979, page 321) indicate that his Department did not take steps to ensure that no conflict of interest occurred when the contract was awarded to Eric White Associates. 
Will Eric White Associates, in their capacity as coordinators of the National Energy Study Team, have access to information to which the public does not have access. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In reply to questions from me and from  Senator Wriedt  last Wednesday which sought an unequivocal guarantee that the Government would stick to import parity pricing for Australian crude oil next year, the Leader of the Government in the Senate said that it was a policy matter which he would refer to the Minister for National Development,  Mr Newman.  Does he know whether  Mr Newman  said in the House last Thursday: 
The Government has a view that import parity pricing is absolutely essential to this country if we are to have a viable and vigorous energy policy. 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate assure us that  Mr Newman's  statement is the definitive statement of Government policy? 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
Has the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation undertaken any research on the black marlin in Australian waters; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
1 ) Is the impending companies legislation intended to prevent consulting geologists and their friends establishing companies to speculate in shares, using assay information to which the geologists have had privileged access, as an aid to successful speculation in the shares of the companies which employ geologists. 
Was  Mr Noel  Crichton-Browne the major shareholder in such a company established in 1 969 by Messrs Burrill and Jones. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 8 October 1 979: 
Did the Minister write to the Member for New England informing him of arrangements for vacating his ministerial office and the removal of other ministerial privileges including the retention of staff; if so, when. 
My speech will be very brief. I just wish to make an explanatory statement relating to the Western Australian Aboriginals (Right to Electoral Enrolment) Bill 1979, which I introduced yesterday. After the first reading stage I sought leave from the Government to make an explanatory statement. 1 have little doubt that had  Senator Baume  realised what that statement was he would have granted me leave. But I neglected to tell him the reason and he refused leave. 
I am sorry, that is my fault. I want to make the position quite clear. I did not proceed to move for a second reading of the Bill at that time because I had been informed by both the Government Whips that the Government was not going to permit a second reading debate or even a second reading speech at that stage, but that the Government would endeavour to make time available some time between now and the end of the session. I am very pleased that the Government has taken that attitude. I trust that time will be made available next week for at least the second reading speech if not for the full second reading debate. I give notice that if the Government cannot make time available, I intend to move at some time between now and the rising of the Parliament that the Standing Orders be suspended to the extent required for at least the second reading speech to be delivered if not for the whole second reading debate. 
I do not want to obstruct the business of the Senate, but I put a request to the Government. On the first reading of the Income Tax (Individuals) Bill 1979 I wish to make a very short statement. It will not take more than one and a half minutes.  Senator McLaren  also wishes to make a statement on the other Bill to which there can be a first reading debate. Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  either separate those two Bills for the purpose of their first reading stages or guarantee us that leave will be granted to us to make short statements? 
I ask the Attorney-General whether he is aware that the court costs alone in the hearing of the first batch of witnesses in the alleged social security conspiracy case are already over $2m and that his senior counsel,  Mr Rofe,  has said that it is costing about $20,000 a day. There are other costs about which questions have been on notice since 29 August, such as costs of bringing back witnesses from Greece, together with the protection and support of police witnesses and other administrative costs. Nine of those questions have still not been answered. Has the Government provided itself with any estimate of the cost of completing all cases against the 148 persons still charged, which, at this rate, cannot be much less than $20m? Has the Government also provided itself with any estimates of costs it may have to pay if the cases are unsuccessful? 
I would like to draw this debate back to the subject of the matter of public importance. I think the outburst which we have just witnessed from  Senator Carrick  can be ascribed, firstly, to the fact that he knows the Government is guilty as charged and, secondly, to the probability that he has not been taking his valium today and he has become over-excited, as he so often has in the Senate. The subject of the matter of public importance submitted by  Senator Wriedt  reads: 
The Government's deceptive and regressive taxation policies. 
Both of those charges are objectively provable beyond all doubt. The Government's taxation policies have been deceptive. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  promised throughout the 1975 and 1977 election campaigns that taxation would be reduced. He not only promised that it would be reduced but also said that it was absolutely essential to the economic health of the country that it be reduced. Among other things he said on 25 November 1 977: 
We have taken the view that a reduction in the personal tax burden is essential to economic recovery and to boosting job opportunities. 
He also claimed that the Government had ended what he called the Labor Party's great tax rip-off and so on. That was the illusion that was held out to the Australian electorate. What is the reality which lies behind that illusion?  Senator Carrick  has more than once reminded us in the Parliament that the only meaningful way of comparing the real burden of taxation over different time periods is to express total taxation as a proportion of gross domestic product. If we look at the figure for 1975-76, which was the financial year covered by the last Budget introduced by the Labor Government, we find that total taxation as a proportion of gross domestic product was 23.31 per cent. If we look at the estimates contained in the Budget Papers for this year we find that the total taxation is 24.43 per cent. Total taxation as a proportion of GDP has gone up by more than 4 per cent under this Government. On  Senator Carrick  's authority that is the proper way to measure over time the real burden of taxation. Total taxation as a proportion of GDP now stands at the highest level ever. So much for the Government 's deception that it would reduce the burden of taxation. 
The second charge in the matter of public importance raised by  Senator Wriedt  is that the Government's taxation policies have been regressive. Perhaps I should mention that 'regressive' means policies which impose a more than proportionate burden on the lower income groups to the advantage of the high income groups. Any pretensions that the Government may have had previously to denying that it had implemented a regressive taxation policy have been blasted apart by the latest quarterly publication of the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. I will seek later to incorporate in  Hansard the  tables contained in the article entitled 'The Budget and the Economy 1979-80'. The figures in the article compare the levels of taxation payments by individuals between 1975-76-the last Labor Budget-and 1979-80. They show that the amount of taxation in real terms paid by a taxpayer without dependants who had a $5,000 income in 1975-76 and has the same level of real income in 1979-80 has gone up by 1 1.8 per cent. That figure relates to the low income group, that is, the people who are on weekly wages now of $140 a week. That is very close to the minimum wage for full time employees. The amount in real terms paid by those people in taxation has gone up by nearly 12 per cent. 
If, on the other hand, we look at those in the $25,000 income group in 1975-76 we find that the amount of taxation paid by them has gone down by 10 per cent. For the lowest income group of full time employees there has been an increase in real terms in taxation paid of 12 per cent. For the top one-half per cent of taxpayers the amount of tax paid in real terms has declined by 10 per cent. There is no need to offer any more evidence to prove  Senator Wriedt  's charge of regressivity in this Government's taxation policies. 

 Senator Carrick quoted some figures but he did not stipulate the years. When I challenged him to give the source he declined, very wisely I would think, to do so. If we look at the total taxation collections between the last Labor Government Budget and the latest Fraser Government Budget we find that in fact total taxation collections, which were $ 1 7 billion in round figures in 1975-76, have increased to $28 billion in 1979-80. That is an increase of 66 per cent.  Senator Carrick  was quoting some figures, which he refused to specify, which purported to show an increase of 18 per cent. The fact is that in money terms the increase over that period has been 66 per cent.  Senator Carrick  quoted some figures which he refused to specify and which purport to show an increase of 1 8 per cent. The fact is that in money terms the increase over that period has been 66 per cent. In real terms, of course, the increase in total taxation collections has been of the order of 1 8 per cent. 
The article of the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research to which I referred earlier made a number of major points and I intend to deal with some of them. Firstly, it states, quite unequivocally, that between 1975-76 and 1979-80 there has been a major redistribution of the total taxation burden. That redistribution of the taxation burden has been highly regressive. The cause of that regressivity, notwithstanding the very substantial increases in direct taxes in the last couple of Budgets, has been changes to the income tax schedule during the calendar years 1978 and 1979. The major cause, or virtually the only cause, of the regressive movement in the distribution of the tax burden has been the much vaunted changes to the personal income tax schedule in the calendar years 1978 and 1979. Indirect taxes are regressive. They have always been regressive. Although they have gone up in real terms in the last couple of years because of the enormous Government taxes on Australian produced crude oil, that has not been a significant contributory factor in the movement to regressivity. 
The increase in the total taxation burden, which I have already demonstrated in measuring the taxation proportion of the gross domestic product between the last year of the Labor Government and this present Government, is worse than it seems when one considers that the burden has been thrust back much more than proportionately towards people on low and middle incomes. It has been further aggravated by an enormous reduction in the effective rate of tax on non-farm, non-pay-as-you-earn income. That category of income is mostly from dividends, profits and unincorporated non-farm businesses. The effective rate of taxation within that sub-category of tax revenue, of income, in 1975-76 was 30.9 per cent. By 1977-78 and 1978-79 that had dropped to 23 per cent. I am quoting again from the article in the latest quarterly bulletin of the Melbourne Institute. The cause of that enormous reduction in the amount of what, for want of a simplified term, one might call business and dividend income- the enormous reduction in self-employed income other than farm income- is, quite clearly, as the Institute points out, tax dodging, tax evasion, or what is somewhat euphemistically called tax avoidance. 
I guess it is not at all surprising that we should see this occurring under the present Federal Government. On its own admission virtually every member of the present Cabinet operates some sort of a family trust, the explicit purpose of which is to avoid paying taxation. We had the example of the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party  (Mr Lynch),  the No. 3 person in the present Government, who was forced to resign from the Cabinet during the 1977 election campaign because it was publicly disclosed that he was involved in insider trading, in land speculation on the Mornington Peninsula and buying up land on the cheap.  His  good friend and major campaign fund contributor, who also happened to be a member of the board which controlled land zoning regulations in Victoria,  Mr Peter  Leake, informed Phillip Lynch that this land was about to be rezoned as residential land and, therefore, it would be a good idea to buy some. Peter Leake went further than that and, after the land had been purchased, offered Phillip Lynch a share in this bonanza, land which was about to be rezoned as residential land. Phillip Lynch cleaned up profits on that in the order of $70,000. In addition to this - 
Who cannot take it now? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Scott)- Senator Walsh,  the matters that you raise are matters that have been ruled on. I ask you to return to the subject of the debate. 
They have never been disproved. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has bluntly refused to table the report on this matter prepared by  Mr Lynch  's own solicitors and accountants. He has absolutely refused to table that report. He said that it clears  Mr Lynch.  Why can we not see the report to see whether it does clear  Mr Lynch? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I have asked you,  Senator, to  return to the subject of the debate. The matter that you referred to earlier has been ruled on. 
-The Melbourne Institute estimated that at least $700m had leaked from Government revenue because of tax evasion activities. In closing, I say that it should be absolutely no surprise to anyone that this has happened under this Government when the third man in the Government has been a major participant in, firstly, land speculation with insider knowledge, with insider assistance - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I must ask you to withdraw those last remarks. 
What remarks,  Mr Deputy  President? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- The last remarks. 
It is a matter of public record that the Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party participated in land speculation activities with the assistance of insider knowledge gained from his friend, Peter Leake, who was a member of a government authority. He had a family trust to dodge taxation of the proceeds of his ill-gotten gains. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I am asking you to withdraw the words relating to insider knowledge. That is an inference that I am not going to accept. 
As I have mentioned before,  Mr Deputy President,  the test of acceptability in this chamber may be the Standing Orders. I would rather that it was the truth. The truth is that Phillip Lynch speculated in land with the assistance of insider knowledge he gained from Peter Leake. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Walsh,  I have asked you to withdraw your closing remarks about insider information. 

 -Mr Deputy President, given that the test of acceptability in this chamber is the Standing Orders and not the truth, I will withdraw. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I have asked you,  Senator Walsh,  and I insist, to withdraw the remarks that you have made about  Mr Lynch. 
I have withdrawn them, given that the test of acceptability in this chamber is the Standing Orders and not the truth. The truth is that he did speculate in land with insider assistance. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Walsh,  you are now reflecting on the Standing Orders and I ask you to withdraw that reflection too. 
I am quite willing to withdraw it. I do not wish to obstruct the business of the Senate. I will be quite happy to withdraw any reflection. I am not sure in what way I have reflected on the Standing Orders, but I am happy to withdraw anything that may be thought of as a reflection. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I have not yet had a chance to look at the report but I want to comment on one of the things in it. I refer to the subsidiaries of the Australian Dairy Corporation. During the hearings of Estimates Committee D on 21 September I was told, in reply to a question, that an Auditor-General's report on matters concerning the administration of Asia Dairy Industries Limited, a subsidiary of the Corporation, had been sent to the then Minister for Primary Industry a day or two previously. That was confirmed by the AuditorGeneral's report which was tabled here last Tuesday and which stated that the AuditorGeneral's report on Asia Dairy Industries was sent to the then Minister on 1 7 September. 
On 16 October this year the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  was asked in the House of Representatives whether he had noted that the Committee had been told that the report had gone to his predecessor at about that stage, whether he had had an opportunity to consider the report and, if so, what action he had taken.  Mr Nixon's  reply, which I quote in full, was: 
There has been a preliminary report to me on this matter. I am waiting for further advice and until that advice comes I am not in a position to make any comment. 
The Auditor-General's supplementary report, which was tabled on Tuesday, also disclosed that further inquiries were initiated by the AuditorGeneral on 19 September, that is, two days after the earlier report on Asia Dairy Industries had been submitted to the then Minister. The present Minister,  Mr Nixon,  was asked again today, in the House of Representatives, when he intended to table the first report- the one received on 17 September- and whether he had yet received the report of the further investigation initiated by the Auditor-General on 19 September.  Mr Nixon's  answer was even less informative than his previous answer to a similar question. He was, to say the least, evasive. In doing that I suggest that, firstly, he is showing some contempt for Parliament, which seems to be a fairly common practice by Ministers of the Government these days. 
For Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
1 ) Did the Minister for Primary Industry (a) claim travelling allowance for IS June 1979 and 28 June 1979; and (b) make use of Commonwealth cars for travel within Sydney on those dates. 
What are the details of any travel undertaken by the Minister in Sydney on those dates. 
The admirable objectives that are sought by  Senator Rae  and that have been outlined by him during the last quarter of an hour are, I fear, highly unlikely to be achieved by this Bill. However, they are encapsulated in the amendment that has been moved by  Senator Evans  on behalf of the Opposition, and for which I anticipate  Senator Rae's  enthusiastic support. The plain fact is that this Bill not only paves the way for the enshrinement of the lowest common denominator approach to companies and securities legislation but also ensures that at any time any State unilaterally may set its own even lower standard. States, according to the articles of the formal agreement, may not only veto changes to whatever ultimate Act is finally decided upon; they may also, at any time they choose, withdraw from the jurisdiction of such Acts. 
The Bill establishes a National Companies and Securities Commission, the operational methods of which have been mutually agreed upon by seven governments. At some unspecified time the Commission will supervise the operation of a uniform companies and securities law which has not been drafted but which must also be unanimously agreed upon by seven governments. When and if that happens another lowest common denominator companies and securities law will be introduced into the Parliament. This Bill sacrifices, as the Opposition's amendment says, reform for uniformity, a uniformity that is highly vulnerable to disintegration at that. It is not as the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  claimed in the House of Representatives on 28 August, 'tangible evidence of the success of the Government's policy of cooperative federalism'. It is, indeed, telling evidence of the Fraser Government's political cowardice disguised as co-operative federalism. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. That policy decision is prompted by the hope which  Senator Rae  has just expressed, that this Bill might be better than nothing. Our sentiments towards it are set out in the amendment that has been moved by  Senator Evans.  I will not read it in detail but, summarised, it expresses the concern of the Opposition at the Commonwealth Government's abdication of responsibility, about the fact that the Commonwealth has chosen to put uniformity before reform, about the lack of any effective accountability of the proposed Commission to any Minister and calls upon the Government, in the event of this approach breaking down, to introduce promptly effective legislation. 
The attitude of the Australian Labor Party to the matter of companies and securities law was accurately set down by  Mr Fife  in the House of Representatives on 28 August, and I give him credit for that. He said: 
The former Labor Government opted for unilateral action by the Commonwealth insofar as it proposed to legislate without consultation with the States and rely solely on the Commonwealth's . . . powers. This Government, however, has consistently preferred an approach of cooperation with the States rather than enacting unilateral legislation. 
It is indeed the attitude of the Opposition that the Commonwealth Government should unilaterally legislate in this field. 
I was a member of the Senate Select Committee on the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill which was appointed in 1975 to study the then Bill which was before the Senate and which was introduced originally by the Australian Labor Party Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy.  The deliberations of that Committee ceased on 1 1 November 1975 at a time when the fact that Appropriation Bills had not passed the Senate was considered to be a matter of sufficient importance to justify the dismissal of the Government. The fact that four years later- on 19 November- Appropriation Bills have not passed the Senate does not seem to concern anyone on the conservative side of politics or their friends outside. 
As a member of that Committee I have heard legal disputation about the limits of Commonwealth power in this area, legal argument and a great deal of legal sophistry. I came to the conclusion then- I acknowledge that it was a layman 's conclusion- that the matter of Commonwealth jurisdiction, or the limits of Commonwealth power, was co complex that it could only be satisfactorily settled in the courts. I note that the one-time Attorney-General of the Fraser Government, the present Minister for Home Affairs and the former Solicitor-General,  Mr Ellicott,  came to exactly the same conclusion. In the House of Representatives in 1974 he stated:   . . uncertainty as to the extent of constitutional power should never of itself be a reason for opposing an otherwise worthwhile legislative exercise of power, nor should it prevent a government, properly advised, treading where angels of constitutional probity have formerly feared to tread. The High Court, as we know, will readily give us the answer . . . 
The Government rejected that view of its one.ume Attorney-General and its one-time guru who in 1 975 was said to be infallible on constitutional matters when he presumed to advise the Governor-General and everyone else as to the correct procedures that should be followed. Apparently his advice on the matter of company law and securities legislation today is not considered to be of any consequence by the Government. More importantly, the Government rejected the unequivocal recommendations of the bipartisan Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange which ultimately was chaired by  Senator Rae.  After more than three years of intensive study the Committee stated: 
Our recommendation is that the new national regulatory body should be established by the Federal Government. It is clear from the powers given in the Constitution, that this government was created to meet national needs relating to foreign corporations and trading or financial corporations  . .' and interstate and overseas trade and commerce  In our view the time has come for the Federal Government to step in to assume responsibility for seeing that the securities market is properly regulated. 
I am aware of the fact that some lawyers have expressed doubts- I think  Senator Evans  expressed the same doubts- that the Commonwealth power may not be wide enough to cover manufacturing corporations. But as  Mr Ellicott  said, and as I concluded after listening to the evidence as a member of that Committee in 1975, it seems that that matter, given the fact that reputable legal opinions can be given or have been given on both sides, can be settled only in the courts. The Senate Committee ultimately chaired by  Senator Rae  also stated: 
It is impossible to ensure uniformity when the States disagree amongst each other as to whether a proposal for reform should be adopted. If you are to have truly uniform legislation then if one State stands against the introduction of a piece of amending legislation which is regarded as important, clearly the other States should refuse also to introduce these amendments . . . 
In other words, if one is going to have uniform legislation on this basis, the most reactionary or the most inept or, if one likes, the most corrupt State government will retain at all times the power of veto. The report continues: 
. notwithstanding the fact that it may be regarded as highly desirable by them . . . It is clear that in these circumstances the business community is thrown into chaos and disorder by having to work out what they have to do in the various States. 
Five years after the bipartisan committee, ultimately chaired by  Senator Rae,  tabled the report in the Senate which included those comments and recommendations among many others, finally this Bill has been produced. Compounding the fundamental inadequacies of a Bill like this one to which the Rae report, in advance drew attention, is the administrative procedure explicitly stated in clause 38 (1) of the formal agreement. That clause states: 
The policy direction and general control over the administration of company law and the regulation of the securities industry throughout Australia by the Ministerial Council and by the Commission in accordance with this agreement shall, subject to Pan VI and to clause 25 and to sub-clause (2), be exercised to the exclusion of individual Ministerial direction and control by the responsible Minister of the Commonwealth or of the State. 
I repeat the final couple of lines:  . . shall . . . be exercised to the exclusion of individual Ministerial direction and control by the responsible Minister of the Commonwealth or of the State. 
In other words, nobody is responsible for the Commission. That clause, which is part of the formal agreement between the States and the Commonwealth, institutionalises the doctrine of non-responsibility. It is a formula, for inertia and/or failure and it can only be changed, I repeat, if the principle of uniformity is to be adhered to by the Government, with the unanimous agreement of the seven governments involved. Instead of legislating effectively and having that legislation tested in court if necessary, the Fraser Government relied on unanimity, based on an assumption that States will be honest, competent and responsible. Given the nature of the regimes in at least two States, that belief is compounded of wishful thinking and self-delusion. 
Just be patient. The commercial morality one can expect from some State governments was detailed by Trevor Sykes, whose nom de plume is Pierpont, which is probably a better known name than Trevor Sykes, in a book he published recently which detailed the events of the 1969 to 1971 period. On page 198 of  The Money Miners,  Trevor Sykes, or Pierpont, refers to a private placement of shares by Comalco Ltd on 29 April 1970. The organising brokers were asked to make offers of shares directly to what it called selected parties. Shortly afterwards, in May, the then Prime Minister,  Mr John  Gorton, was offered shares. He rejected them. He told his Ministers not to accept shares in the float either. In New Zealand, the then Nationalist or Liberal Prime Minister,  Mr Holyoake,  issued the same instructions to his Cabinet. In the States, however, the position was different. I quote Sykes directly: 
When the float list became available in June the Melbourne Age inspected it and discovered that thousands of shares had been allotted to high-ranking politicians in Victoria, New South Wales, Western Australia and in Queensland (where nearly half the Cabinet was involved). Allotments included 1500 to  Mrs M.  I. Askin, wife of the NSW Premier; 1000 to Tom Lewis, the then NSW Minister for Lands and later Premier; 1500 to Queensland Treasurer and Acting Premier, Gordon Chalk, and another 1000 to members of his family; 15 16 to  Sir David  Brand, Premier of WA; and 1500 shares to Charrita Pty Ltd, a private company associated with Charles Court, the subsequent Premier. The Victorian Premier,  Sir Henry  Bolte, received shares and there were also financial journalists on the float list. 
Evidently this information came to light only because of a co-operative and probably innocent junior employee of the company who assisted investigative journalists in tracing through nominee companies and anonymous companies, the real identity of the people who took those private placements, one of whom would have been  Sir Charles  Court, the Western Australia Premier. That morality- or more accurately, I suppose one should say, lack of morality- demonstrated by the actions of ' Ministers in governments of that time is extant - 
I ask the honourable senator to go ahead. That morality, or the lack of it, is extant in Queensland and Western Australia. Until this year the Liberal Party  President  in Western Australia was a close associate of the Premier,  Sir Charles  Court. Noel CrichtonBrowne was the major shareholder in a company called Burrill Investments, which also attracted considerable attention from the committee chaired by  Senator Rae.  In fact, from memory, it was the subject of 25 or 30 pages in the report which was finally presented to the Senate. The original directors holding one share each were Messrs Burrill and Jones, who doubled up as consulting geologists to Poseidon Ltd. At the time the company was established on 22 May 1969, 20,252 shares had been issued, the nominal capital of the company being $100,000. Of those 20,000-odd shares issued at that time, one each was held by Burrill and Jones. Out of the 20,000 shares at the time, 5,000 were held by Noel Crichton-Browne.  His  brother, Peter John Browne, held 3,250. Two thousand were held by Esther Grace Stevens, who was then Noel Crichton-Browne 's fiancee, now his wife. A further 2,000 were allotted to Norma Rosa Stevens, mother of Esther Grace Stevens and now the mother-in-law of Noel CrichtonBrowne. A further 1,000 shares were allotted to Malcolm Scott Holdings, the family investment company of former Liberal Party senator from Western Australia and Federal Minister, Malcolm Scott. 
This company in which Noel CrichtonBrowne was a founding shareholder, and the major shareholder throughout the period in which we were interested, used inside information gained by Burrill and Jones to rip off the uninformed and deliberately misinformed on the securities market to the extent of at least, according to the Senate report, $1.3m. About the activity of this company and other people operating in close association with Poseidon as directors, the Rae report said: 
During the period leading up to the announcement of the discovery of nickel and copper sulphides the consulting geologists and one of the directors misused their official and fiduciary positions to buy Poseidon shares for private profit. 
I repeat: 
. misused their official and fiduciary positions to buy Poseidon shares for private profit. 
It continues: 
The geologists also sold many of the shares at a dme when they had a greater knowledge of the prospects than the general public whom they had informed about the Windarra field. Another conclusion of wide significance is that the Windarra announcements, which gave nickel prospecting a new glamor and gave rise to a great wave of mineral company flotations and placement issues, can now be seen to have been misleading in significant respects and made on careless, to say the least, reporting of assays. 
The operational method of the company, having had prior and inside knowledge of the initial strike at Windarra in September 1969, was to buy shares on the Perth and other stock exchanges with around $5, wait until a misleading and overstated report of the initial assay of the strike had been made available to the public, and then unload the shares at anything up to $100, or even more. Firstly by buying up the shares because of improper insider knowledge and secondly by maximising gains by selling off at a time when the market was misinformed in the other direction, the company of which Noel Crichton-Browne was a founding and the major shareholder cleaned up profits of at least $ 1 .3 m. 
At that time Noel Crichton-Browne was also the mining registrar in Marble Bar. Under section 8 of the Western Australian Mining Act at that time it was an offence punishable by up to two years' imprisonment to be a mining registrar or warden and at the same time to hold shares in a company engaged in or associated with mining directly or indirectly. He was charged with that offence on 1 1 February 1978. The facts- that he was the registrar and that he had an interest at least in Burrill Investments- were acknowledged. The defence rested its case on two grounds: Firstly that the Western Australian Act was derived from a New South Wales Act and the comparable section of that Act was worded differently. The significant difference, it was claimed, in the wording was that the section of the New South Wales Act applied only if the company in which the registrar or warden held shares was engaged in mining within the area over which the registrar or warden had jurisdiction. Therefore the defence argued that because the Act was derived from the New South Wales Act and in that section the New South Wales Act said something different, the Western Australian Act really meant the same thing that the New South Wales Act said and not the words that were actually written into it. The defence claimed that the Act meant the same as the words written into the New South Wales Act instead of the words that were actually written. 
The second ground of the defence, supplementary to the first, was that obviously the Act was not meant to be applied to a person like  Mr Crichton-Browne  otherwise it would disqualify registrars or wardens from having a life assurance policy with the Australian Mutual Provident Society because AMP held shares in mining companies. In other words, the second ground of defence proposed that holding a life assurance policy with the AMP was inseparable from being the major shareholder in a company established to speculate in the shares of mining companies. No rebuttal to that argument was offered by the prosecution. The case was dismissed. That extraordinary behaviour in that case by prosecuting authorities in Western Australia should be contrasted with their actions with respect to people who sabotaged a woodchip loading belt in Bunbury. They were sentenced and the Crown appealed against it on the basis that it was not severe enough. Unionists were pursued by the Court Government through three courts because charges had been previously dismissed by two courts. But the prosecution in the CrichtonBrowne case offered no rebuttal to the defence. The Government was not at all disturbed. 
The answer to the extraordinary behaviour of the prosecution can perhaps be found in this anecdote The son of an endorsed candidate for the Liberal Party in the forthcoming election in Western Australia was apprehended on a drink driving charge by the Road Transport Authority. I know something about this case. It is quite conceivable indeed that the young man in question was being victimised, although technically he was guilty. The candidate went to the  Deputy  Premier of Western Australia and said: 'How are you going to get him off?'. The  Deputy  Premier, with appropriate shock, horror and sanctimony, said: 'We can't do a thing like that'. The candidate replied: 'How did Crichton-Browne get off?'. There was a long and embarrassed silence from the  Deputy  Premier. 
I heard it from a very good member of the Liberal Party, and I daresay that at least one other person here would know about it, too.  Mr Crichton-Browne  is, by any reasonable standards of commercial behaviour, a most unsavoury character. He is a sleazy operator. He is indeed more than that. He is a crook who, but for the selective application of the law of Western Australia, would have been gaoled. Knowing all this the Liberal Party in Western Australia, with the full support of  Sir Charles  Court and some other prominent Western Australian Liberals, especially State politicians, and in spite of the spirited opposition of  Senator Durack  and  Senator Withers,  has endorsed this man, Crichton-Browne, as a member of its Senate team for the next election. Indeed, he very nearly beat  Senator Durack  into third place on the ticket. Does the Fraser Government believe that a State Government dominated by people like that will crack down on corporate malpractice? Does the Fraser Government believe that a Liberal Party State Government dominated by people like that who are quite happy to put a man like Crichton-Browne on their Senate ticket and who almost put him in front of a senior Minister of the Fraser Government,  Senator Durack,  will crack down on corporate malpractice? I have not said anything about another State government of which the commercial business behaviour of many of its senior members has caused eyebrows to be raised all over the rest of Australia and, indeed, in Queensland itself- that is, of course, the Queensland Government. I think this legislation was very succinctly put in perspective by my colleague Ralph Jacobi in the House of Representatives on 23 October when he said: 
This legislation could be summed up in two simple, brief sentences: If you are an honest investor, beware. If you are a market or company shark, it is business as usual. 
Finally, I have a question for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  if he ever returns to Parliament. Perhaps we ought to consider having Parliament sit on the weekends instead of in the middle of the week so that the Prime Minister can attend. He is fit and well enough to attend Liberal Party conferences but he says that he is not fit and well enough to attend Parliament. Frankly, if I were in his shoes I would not be coming here this week if I could get out of it. However, I have a question to put to the Prime Minister which I am not permitted to put on the Senate Notice Paper. I asked a question without notice of  Senator Carrick.  He told me to put the question on the Senate Notice Paper. I was not permitted to put the whole lot on the Senate Notice Paper. The question, as it appears on the Notice Paper, is Question No. 2076, and reads: 
Is the impending companies legislation intended to prevent consulting geologists and their friends establishing - 
-I wish to ask some questions which actually overlap between the appropriation for the Joint House Department and the capital expenditure on the Parliament of the Department of Housing and Construction. I will proceed and hope that the questions will be answered if the information is available. The matter concerns the new front entrance to Parliament House. I ask: Will additional staff be required to police the new entrances? If so, has additional staff been appointed? Does the estimate for salaries and payments in the nature of salary in the vote for the Joint House Department allow for additional staff to man the front entrance? It seems to me that such additional staff and expenditure, if incurred, would be recorded under the estimates for the Joint House Department. The issue overlaps with the capital expenditure on Parliament in the estimates for the Department of Housing and Construction. It looks as if the new entrance is finished, and I have been unofficially informed of that. I put those questions on the assumption that the entrance has been finished. Will additional staff be needed? Have they yet been appointed? Does the estimate cover their salaries and other expenses? If the additional staff have not been appointed, when are they likely to be appointed? 
 I wish to speak about the AuditorGeneral's Office, which comes under the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. According to the remarks of  Senator Martin  earlier tonight, questions asked at Estimates Committee A on 24 September and the written answer to those questions by the Assistant Auditor-General suggest that the only Auditor-General's reports which remain confidential are those relating to the Governor-General and his establishment. I ask whether all other Auditor-General 's reports, including reports arising from special investigations conducted by the Auditor-General, are normally tabled in Parliament. If the AuditorGeneral has submitted a report to a Minister, is the Minister obliged to table that report in Parliament? If a Minister fails to table such a report, can the Auditor-General report directly to Parliament? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) What studies has the Department of Primary Industry undertaken, or commissioned, on the black marlin in Australian waters. 
When, and by whom, were any such studies conducted. 
Were the results of any such studies published; if so, where; if not, why not. 
I have no objection to moving on to Group B, providing there is an assurance that the questions I have asked regarding reports of the Auditor-General other than the private reports concerning the Governor-General's establishment, can be returned to at a later time tonight or tomorrow. Will I be able to return to and receive answers to the questions I have asked if the Committee now moves on to Group B? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  Do you agree with an authority such as R. N. Spann, Professor of Government and Public Administration at the University of Sydney, who wrote in  Government Administration in Australia  that the legislative and administrative authority controlling the office of Auditor-General is designed to free the Auditor-General from ministerial control and enable him to report directly to the Parliament? In that connection I might mention also that  Dr Coombs,  in the report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, expressed similar opinions. If you do concur with Spann and others, will you as an officer of the 
Parliament ask the Auditor-General to table tomorrow the two reports on Asia Dairy Industries (H.K.) Ltd which the Auditor-General has prepared in the last 12 weeks and submitted to the Minister for Primary Industry, but which the Minister has declined to table in the House? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I would like to speak briefly to the motion. I refer particularly to that part of the statement which reads: 
The Government sees merit in most of the Committee's recommendations. However, it is unable to accept its first recommendation by which a commitment is sought that no excises or sales taxes be imposed before the transition period for repayment of the deferred tax arising from the repeal of section 3 lA of the Income Tax Assessment Act has ended for most of the industry. Questions as to whether taxes should be imposed on the wine industry are matters which should be decided in the Budget context from time to time. 
I wish to make two points which arise from that statement. Firstly, although it might be stating a quite defensible position to state that matters of taxation should be decided in the Budget context from time to time, that principle, if it is a principle of the Government, did not deter the former Minister for Primary Industry from giving last December an unequivocal guarantee to the wine growers in the Riverland region that no tax would be imposed on wine. That must lead one to the conclusion that the Government speaks with at least two tongues on this matter. Perhaps after today's experience one should question whether it speaks at all. Secondly, there is quite clearly in that statement of Government policy an implicit warning that a tax could be imposed on wine in any future Budget, including next year's. The statement reads further: 
In announcing its decision on the IAC report dealing with potable spirits, the Government pointed to the commitment that exists under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade for Australia to maintain the margin between customs and excise duties for brandy at no more than 1 9c per litre of alcohol. Given this commitment, the Government is thus unable to adopt the seventh recommendation of the Committee, which called for the margin to be increased from 19c to 54c per litre of alcohol. 
As a member of the Committee, I recall very clearly that the reason for the Committee's making that recommendation was that at present there is a disparity between the level of purely protective duty which applies to brandy imports and that which applies to whisky imports. It seemed to the Committee that there could be no rational justification for applying a different level of purely protective duty to brandy and whisky. Therefore, the Committee recommended that the protective duty component of the tax on imported brandy be lifted to that on whisky- 54c per litre of alcohol. I accept the Government's statement that such a change would have required the variation of an agreement already entered into under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Nevertheless, there remains an anomaly - albeit perhaps fairly insignificant- in regard to the level of protective duties which apply to imported brandy and whisky respectively. 
In that context, I wish to clear up another point concerning protection. The Government did not misrepresent the situation, but some sections of the agricultural Press have misunderstood its decision, as announced on 25 October, to reduce the excise on brandy by 275c per litre of alcohol. 
The Government stated: 
An equivalent reduction would be made on the rate of customs duty on brandy - 
So the tax reduction for imported and domestically distilled brandy would be the same. This was misunderstood by some sections of the media as a decision which increased the protection for Australian brandy. In fact, it was a decision which reduced the level of tax applying equally to Australian produced and imported brandy. I quote from the same statement by  Mr Nixon  on 25 October: 
. the IAC had recommended a uniform protective margin of 25 per cent ad valorem to replace the various specific duties currently applying. This would involve a slight increase in tariff assistance for most potable spirits. 
In the next paragraph he refers to an IAC recommendation that the assistance should be: 
. supplementary to the 25 per cent ad valorem rate, to provide assistance for diluting, bottling and packaging activities. 
In the following paragraph he said: 
. that the Government had not accepted these recommendations. 
I mention these points to make it quite clear that the changes to the level of excise applying to brandy in Australia do not differentiate in any way between domestic and imported brandy although this has been misunderstood in some quarters. Finally, I turn to paragraph 3 on page 2 of the Minister's statement. He says: 
The Government endorses the remaining recommendations of the Committee that deal with taxation. 
One of those recommendations was that section 3lA should not be reinstated. So that definitive statement of Government intent or the promise given by the then caretaker Treasurer,  Mr Lynch-  I think that would have been his title- in 1975 to the grape growers in South Australia that section 31A would be restored has finally been definitively buried or repudiated by the Government. 
I speak quite briefly on the first reading of Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1979-80 to express my dissatisfaction or to protest at the Government 's intention to deal with the rest of the business before the Senate rises for the summer recess. Today 37 Bills are on the Senate Notice Paper. A number- I am not sure how many- of further Bills will be transmitted from the House of Representatives before the end of this session. Twelve Bills were passed yesterday. It is the Government's intention, as conveyed to the Opposition, that something like 50 Bills will be pushed through the Senate in one week. That number of Bills exceeds the total number dealt with by the Senate in the preceding, I think, 1 1 weeks of this session. Moreover, among the 50 Bills which the Government intends to push through the Senate this week, is the Wheat Marketing Bill and its associated Bills. This legislation has been the subject of prolonged discussion, debate and a fair amount of controversy outside the Parliament. It is quite unacceptable that the Government should be pushing Bills of that nature into the Parliament so late in the session. This legislation, after all, only comes up every five years and yet the Government is proposing to deal with it in the peremptory manner I have mentioned. Also the vital Appropriation Bills are included in those 50 Bills, which the Government intends to ram through before the end of the week. The Senate is supposed to have a responsibility for exercising some scrutiny over the expenditure of something over $8m which is proposed in these Bills. 
I am sorry, I meant $8 billion. I wish to raise at least five matters in the Committee stages of these Appropriation Bills in a genuine search for information on matters, pertaining to the expenditure of money, which have not been made entirely clear by the Government. I do not know how long it will take to clear the matter up, but I estimate it will take 30 minutes at the very minimum for all of those matters to be dealt with. I know that a number of honourable senators on the Opposition side and, quite conceivably, on the Government side, would like to have further clarification of some of this proposed expenditure. I fear that if we are given the opportunity to do that, other important Bills, such as the wheat marketing legislation, will be pushed through, perhaps even, guillotined, on Friday. 
The supreme irony of all this is that the Government has proposed to deal with the business in this way and many honourable senators who support the Government in a different context have the audacity to extol the virtue of 'he Senate as an alleged House of review. It must be an extremely efficient House of review if honourable senators think it can adequately deal with that number of Bills of that importance in the time which the Government proposes to allot. It may have been excusable if it were a month or even three weeks later. If honourable senators look back over the last 10 years as I have done, at a period which covers both Labor and nonLabor governments- with the exception of last year when the Government introduced this practice of lifting the Senate very early, well before the end of November- they will see that in all of the other years, excepting years when elections were held, the Senate sat until at least 10 December. In 1 97 1 , under what was by that time the McMahon Government, it was 10 December; under the Whitlam Government in 1973 it was 13 December; again under a Labor Government in 1 974 the Senate sat until 1 1 December; in 1976, which was the first year of the present Government, the Senate sat until 10 December. Of course, 1977 was an election year. In 1978 the Government lifted the Senate on 24 November. 
The Government intends to repeat that practice this year. I think we are entitled to some explanation and justification from the Government, or at least an attempt at justification, for the action it proposes to take in lifting the Senate at least two weeks earlier than in the past. It has been lifted under comparable circumstances but in so doing, of course, it is required that this amount of largely quite important legislation be dealt with in the very short time which is available. One can see that given the present political and even the present legal position of a number of Ministers, the Government has a vested interest in closing the Parliament down as soon as possible so that the actions of numerous Ministers of the Government can escape parliamentary scrutiny. It is not supposed to be the responsibility of the Senate to collaborate in that sort of exercise. 
I have a personal interest in the proposed program in that last week I was granted leave to move the first reading of a Bill pertaining to the opportunity for Aboriginal people in Western Australia to enrol for State elections. The Opposition was given, not a promise, but an assurance by the Government that it would endeavour, before this session ended, at least to allow the second reading speech for that Bill to be delivered and possibly even the entire second reading debate. Under the circumstances, I submit that the 
Government ought to allow the entire second reading debate of that Bill, or allow time for the entire second reading debate of that Bill to be finalised, and for a decision to be made on it, even if that means that the Senate sits next week. It would be no great sacrifice to do that. I submit that the Senate has a duty to sit next week if it has important legislation to deal with. If the Government does not comply with the request to finalise the second reading debate of that Bill before it lifts the Senate, then it will have given both the Opposition and the Aboriginal people in Western Australia a fair indication of how important it thinks the voting opportunities of the Aboriginal people are in Western Australia. But in the judgment of the Government and the senators who support it there is more importance in the Senate going into recess a fortnight early than having the Senate consider a piece of legislation of such importance to Aboriginal people. 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That there be laid on the table of the Senate on Friday, 23 November 1979, the Auditor-General's reports on Asia Dairy Industries (Hong Kong) furnished to the Minister for Primary Industry and referred to in the Auditor-General's report contained in the annual report of the Australian Dairy Corporation 1978-79. 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent  Senator Walsh  from moving forthwith: 
That intervening business be postponed until after consideration of General Business, Order of the Day No. 246 (Western Australian Aboriginals (Right to Electoral Enrolment) Bill 1979-Second Reading). 
I want to return to the questions which I asked last night and which have not yet been answered. They are whether all AuditorGeneral's reports, including special reports but excluding the specific cases which have already been cited- the audits of the Government House accounts and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation accounts- are normally tabled in Parliament; whether there is any precedent for not tabling such reports in Parliament; whether a Minister, having received an Auditor-General's special report, is obliged to table that report in Parliament; and whether, in the event of a Minister's failing to table such a report, the AuditorGeneral can report directly to Parliament on his own initiative. 
I would like the Minister for Science and the Environment to tell us when we can expect an answer to those questions or, better still, to guarantee that those questions will be answered before the Appropriation Bills are finally passed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 6 November 1979: 
Have any proposals for Joint Venture Fishing Projects had Ministerial approval withdrawn; if so: (a) what were the names of the Australian and foreign partners involved; (b) what were the details of the proposals; and (c) what were the reasons for withdrawal of Ministerial approval, in each case. 
In view of that I move: 
That consideration of Group A be deferred until such time as the Government is able to answer the question of whether there is any precedent for the Minister for Primary Industry's not tabling reports such as the two reports into Asia Dairy Industries (Hong Kong) Ltd which he and his predecessor have received in the last two months. 
Question put- 
That the motion  (Senator Walsh's)  be agreed to. 
I am not willing to accept that answer unless I can get a guarantee from the Minister that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  will table those reports tomorrow. If that guarantee cannot be given I am quite prepared to proceed with my motion and I intend to move that consideration of Group A estimates be deferred until tomorrow until those further questions can be answered. 
I thank the Minister for Science and the Environment for providing answers to some of the questions that I asked last night. We now know that an application has been made for additional staff in order that the new front entrance of Parliament House may be operated in the way that it was intended to operate. I assume that the application for additional staff has been submitted to the Public Service Board. I would like confirmation or otherwise of that. I would also like to know whether an application has already been submitted to the Public Service Board and rejected. According to the estimates for the Department of Housing and Construction, $166,000 has been spent on the new front entrance. The rationale for installing a new entrance is that it is essential for the security of Parliament House. It is not being used although it was finished on 24 July. We have gone through the whole parliamentary session with the new "entrance having been completed but not being used because staff have not been made available. 
I suggest that that is evidence of either very faulty planning or a tacit acknowledgment that the whole project was not worthwhile in the first place. I will assume that the real reason for this front entrance having been, by implication of the Government, unnecessarily constructed lies in the over-reaction by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to a bomb explosion which occurred in Sydney about 20 months ago. In other words, $166,000 of public money has been wasted to indulge the Prime Minister's militaristic fantasies which flowed on from that explosion in Sydney. I note that the Minister has not answered the other questions that I asked last night pertaining to the Auditor-General's reports. I would like to take up that matter at a later stage. 
I want to protest about that. These questions were asked last night. There has been a whole working day since then. Unless there has been some gross inefficiency within the Government or within some Government departments I do not believe there is any reason why the Auditor-General's Office could not have supplied answers to those questions by now. Further, I believe that the Government is trying to dodge questions on this issue, as it has dodged questions on a variety of issues over the last few days. The fact is that two special reports from the Auditor-General have been received by the Minister for Primary Industry, one by the previous Minister on or about 20 September. A later report on the same subject has been received by the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon ) at a time not known to us. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has twice been asked about this matter in the House of Representatives. He was first asked on 26 October when he intended to table the first report. He said he had not had a chance to have a proper look at it. Last week he was asked again by  Mr Kerin  whether he had received the second report and when he was going to table either or both reports. He completely ignored the question. That evasion by that Minister in the House of Representatives has led to my questions today. I know that the Audit Act contains provisions which state that, under some circumstances, it is mandatory for the Auditor-General to report to the Treasurer and for the Treasurer then to table those reports in Parliament. There are other provisions in the Audit Act which appear to allow for some discretion to the Auditor-General as to what other actions he may take pursuant to his recommendations. To enable the Minister to provide an answer to these questions, I move: 
That further consideration of the votes in Group A be postponed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have received a copy of a letter signed by the Acting Assistant Auditor-General,  Mr McMahon,  relating to the questions that I asked yesterday. The questions related to whether reports other than those which had been specifically excluded by previous discussion in the Committee but including special reports arising from investigations conducted by the Auditor-General are normally tabled in Parliament and whether, if the Auditor-General has submitted a report to a Minister, the Minister is obliged to table that report in Parliament and, if the Minister fails to table such a report, whether the Auditor-General can report directly to Parliament. Today I added an additional question as to whether there was any precedent for special reports by the Auditor-General, having been submitted to a Minister, not being tabled in the Parliament. I recognise that that question was only asked earlier today and has probably not come to the attention of  Mr McMahon,  who signed this letter. I will return to that later. Although the questions, I thought, were fairly simple questions, the letter, which runs to over two pages, provides anything but a simple answer. In fact, as one looks through it one could interpret the intention of the letter as being to complexify the situation as much as to clarify it. In the fourth paragraph on page two it is stated: 
In relation to audits conducted in accordance with the provisions of legislation other than the Audit Act, as authorised by section 63p of the Audit Act - 
On the face of it, it seems to be somewhat contradictory to talk of investigations, under legislation other than the Audit Act, as authorised by section 63P of the Audit Act. I am not sure how one reconciles the statement that investigations authorised by the Audit Act can be carried out outside the Audit Act. The letter continues: it is generally the case that the Auditor-General is required to report to the responsible Minister each year on the financial statements of the entity concerned, and the Minister, in turn, is required to table the annual report of that entity . . . 
I think that refers to the reports of statutory authorities. As far as I know, the annual reports of statutory authorities are always tabled in the Parliament together with, as the letter says, a copy of the report of the Attorney-General. Apart from the initial seemingly contradictory reference to the provisions of legislation other than the Audit Act, as authorised by section 63P of the Audit Act- a possible explanation for that superficial contradiction is that in, for example, the Act establishing the Australian Dairy Corporation it is stated that the accounts of the Corporation will be audited annually by the Auditor-General and tabled in the Parliament; perhaps that is what it means- it appears that the Minister is obliged to table in Parliament a copy of the annual report of such statutory authorities together with a copy of the report of the AuditorGeneral. If my interpretation is correct, it does not surprise me. That is what I had previously expected. However, the question I asked referred to special investigations having been conducted by the Auditor-General. In the fifth paragraph on page two of the letter there is a reference to reports on the results of audits of the accounts and records of statutory and other bodies. It states: 
In respect of the latter, the enabling legislation or audit arrangements require only, as a general rule, that the AuditorGeneral report to the responsible Minister, with no requirement Tor tabling by the Minister in the Parliament. 
I assume that what is being stated there is that special investigations by the Auditor-General into statutory authorities or comparable bodies, other than the Auditor-General 's comment or report on the annual reports of those bodies, must be submitted to the Minister but not necessarily submitted to the Parliament. I seek clarification from the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster),  whether my interpretation of that paragraph is accurate. The final paragraph of the letter states: 
Having regard to section 51a of the Audit Act, the Auditor-General normally includes in his reports, transmitted to the Parliament information in relation to audits, examinations and inspections carried out in pursuance of the Audit Act and any other Act. 
Section 5 1a states: 
The Auditor-General shall include in any report made by him . . . 
In fact that is a quotation from section 5 1a which appears to leave to the discretion of the AuditorGeneral how much additional information which he has collected during the year he includes in annual reports of statutory corporations and perhaps other bodies. Now the fourth question- I suppose I was remiss in not putting it more explicitly last night- is whether there are any precedents for not tabling the report of a special investigation conducted by the AuditorGeneral into the accounts or the expenditure of a statutory corporation. More specifically, the question to which I am seeking an answer is whether there is any precedent for not tabling a report such as the two reports into Asia Dairy Industries (Hong Kong) Ltd, a subsidiary of the Australian Dairy Corporation, which have been completed by the Auditor-General and submitted to the Minister. Is there any precedent for not tabling in the Parliament reports of that nature? The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  who has been twice questioned on this matter in the House in the last six weeks has not said that he will not table the report, because he just has not answered the questions. He has ignored questions when he was supposed to be responding to them. 
Firstly, I request the Minister to clarify whether my interpretation of the fourth and fifth paragraphs and a half paragraph at the beginning of page 2 of  Mr McMahon's  letter, is correct; secondly, whether there are any precedents for the Minister not tabling reports such as those on Asia Dairy Industries which have been received by the Minister for Primary Industry in the last couple of months. 
I acknowledge that I was probably remiss at about this time last night in not adding a fourth question to the three questions I had then placed on the record. The fourth question is whether there is any precedent for a Minister's having received a report- such as the two reports into Asia Dairy Industries (Hong Kong) Ltd which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  and his predecessor received in the last couple of months- and not tabling it in the Parliament. I acknowledge that I should have asked that question last night. I overlooked it at that time. I think it is quite reasonable for  Senator Webster  to say, as he has, that I cannot expect him to answer a question like that off the top of his head. I do not expect him to do so. So may I move that the consideration of Group A estimates be deferred until tomorrow when  Senator Webster  or whoever is deputising for him should be able to provide an answer to that additional question which I asked tonight? 
I want to make a few observations. Firstly, I want to place on record that the socalled House of review, which the people who sit across the aisle from us insist that this place is, has just deliberately by-passed an opportunity to have produced from the Government a responsible answer as to why reports prepared by the Auditor-General have not been presented in the House of Representatives or in the Senate. It begs the question as to why the $10m which is being appropriated for the office of AuditorGeneral is being expended by the taxpayer if the reports into statutory authorities prepared by the Auditor-General are to remain secret documents known only to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon).  It begs a further question: What does the Government have to hide? Why will the Minister for Primary Industry not table these reports? I would suggest that what has just happened in this so-called House of review is almost as scandalous as the interment of the doctrine on ministerial responsibility which has been determined in the last two days. 
Not only has this Senate abdicated what is supposed to be its right to review; it has abdicated its right to establish what are facts, even before they can be reviewed. I think that is a pretty reprehensible situation. Why have these two reports of the AuditorGeneral into a subsidiary of a statutory corporation not been disclosed to the Senate? We are considering here a vote from the Parliament, an appropriation of $ 10m to maintain the office of the Auditor-General when the reports, having been prepared by that office, remain secret documents known only to the Minister for Primary Industry. 
Having said that, I want to draw attention to the fact that I have today submitted a Notice of Motion to move tomorrow: that the Senate require those reports be tabled. So there will be a second opportunity for members of the Liberal Party, for members of the Country Party and for members of the Australian Democrats, who voted with the Government in the vote which has just taken place and abdicated not only all responsibility to review actions of the Government but also abdicated the right to know the facts upon which they could base such a review of actions of the Government. An opportunity will recur tomorrow for all members of the Liberal Party, all members of the Country Party and all members of the Australian Democrats to decide whether this so-called House of review will assert its right to know what are the facts in order that it may, should it choose to do so, review them. 
I must respond very briefly to what has been said. This action would not have been taken in the Senate tonight had the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  done what I believe is certainly his moral duty, and possibly even his legal duty. We have not been able to get an opinion from the Government about the legalities. I asked for an opinion yesterday and was not able to get one. Possibly it is his legal duty to table in the Parliament reports that he has received from the Auditor-General resulting from an investigation into a subsidiary of a statutory authority. If the Minister for Primary Industry had done the right thing, if he had not been trying to cover up- as he evidently is trying to do- for reasons which are not entirely clear at this stage, then the Opposition would not have taken this action. We have been forced into it. 
Having said that, I agree with  Senator Rae  on one matter. I think it is absurd that we should be sitting here at 1 1.41 p.m. on a Wednesday night, having sat until 12 o'clock on Monday and Tuesday nights. The Senate ought to be sitting next week. The Government has decided to close down the Parliament earlier than it has been closed down in a non-election year by any other government within the last decade. The reason why the Government is closing down the Parliament is that it wants to escape the scrutiny of Parliament, and for very good reason. It does not want its actions scrutinised by the Parliament and exposed to the public. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
The Department of the Capital Territory includes the National Capital Development Commission. I want to make some comments about questions which I asked in the original Estimates Committee hearings and for which answers were promised. The answers do not appear to be entirely adequate. The original contract price for the High Court building was $18m. This has now risen above $41m. Part of that variation of $23m is due, of course, to general cost increases incurred from the time the contract was let to the present time, and as I understand it the $4 1 m is the estimate of cost as at 3 1 March 1 979. Given that building costs will continue to rise, the final completion cost will be something greater -than that. As at the end of March the discrepancy between the original contract price and the estimated cost to that stage was $23m. A good deal of that has been due to general cost increases, but so far as I could determine during the original Estimates Committee hearing, something like Slim qf that cost increase, was due to variations in the design. 
By the client department, or by the client department's unofficial master, who appears to have been the Chief Justice. The alterations amount to something like $llm. I received yesterday a letter from the NCDC. I cannot imagine why it has taken so long to reach me. The letter lists five specific items or modifications to what one might call the design, which total just over $4m. That does not account for more than about 37 per cent of the total increase in the cost which can be attributed to changes in the design. Where the other $7m has gone to, so far as I am able to tell there is no clue. I quote part of the last paragraph of this letter: 
When this contract was let it was recognised from the outset that during construction there would be a progressive development of design detail, particularly in relation to the internal layout of the building and internal finishes. Design documentation has accordingly required close collaboration between the architects, the builder, the NCDC, which is the construction authority, and the user, represented in the main  by the Chief Justice, and the Attorney-General's Department. 
The point to which I wish to draw particular attention is why the Chief Justice- designated or regarded as the chief user- I think that is the term- especially since one would not expect that the present Chief Justice would be around for much longer than the High Court; one would certainly hope not, anyway. But why is this man given some special authority to make design changes to the building? If a new school is being built, is the headmaster consulted as to what design changes he would like to have made? If a new hospital is being built, is the doctor or the chief administrative officer given carte blanche to commit millions of dollars of additional expenditure to modify that building according to his whim, his self-indulgence, or to appease his delusions of grandeur? It is scarcely conceivable that a chief justice who has been exposed to criticism from such a variety of sources as has the present Chief Justice should still occupy this position. 
It is very justifiable criticism. His gross extravagance, indulging his own delusions of grandeur with this High Court building - 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 3 May 1979: 
1 ) Can the Treasurer guarantee that interest, to be paid by the Australian Wheat Board in future years on loans to fund the first advance payment, will not exceed the Rural Credits Department rates. 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry been promising farmers, most recently in Adelaide on Friday, 27 April 1979, that the proposed Wheat Stabilisation Act will incorporate such a guarantee. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 October 1979: 
Did the Primary Industry Bank of Australia, on or about 1 July 1 979, advise its agents not to approve new advances; if so, why did the General Manager of the Bank deny that such advice had been issued. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
1 ) Does the Department of Aboriginal Affairs allocate funds for housing directly to the Department of Housing and Construction. 
What is the legal authority for such a practice. 
Do Aboriginal communities have any opportunity to decide to make use of other agencies to assist them in housing projects. 
Is the Department of Housing and Construction required to provide: (a) the Department of Aboriginal Affairs; and (b) the Aboriginal communities involved, with audited statements of how it has used the community's grants. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 19 September 1 979: 
1 ) Has the Minister given the Plague Locust Commission an assurance that its aircraft used in aerial spraying of locust will be given priority, second only to the armed forces, in obtaining supplies of avgas; if so: (a) how is it proposed to administer the allocation of supplies in order to achieve this; and (b) when was the assurance given. 
Has the National Petroleum Advisory Committee discussed the question of fuel supplies for this emergency. 
Has the Committee made a recommendation to the Minister, if not, on whose advice were assurances given to the Plague Locust commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
Has the Minister undertaken any negotiations with Japan to secure free access to the Japanese market for squid caught by Australian fishermen, in return for permission granted to Japanese vessels to fish for squid in Australian waters; if not, what action is proposed by the Minister to enter into negotiations. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
1 ) Will information on lending by the Primary Industry Bank, according to industry, be published, as suggested in the answer to Senate Question No. 1443; if so, when (see  Hansard,  1 May 1979, page 1523). 
If this information is not to be published, who made the decision and what were the reasons given. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
Did the Prime Minister attend a meeting of Ministers between 1 1 . 1 5 a.m. and 3. 1 5 p.m. on 3 1 May 1 979. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
What criteria does the Prime Minister specify for the return to the Ministry of a former Minister dismissed by him for impropriety. 
Does the Prime Minister stipulate that previously undisclosed facts exonerating the former Minister must be produced prior to the former Minister's reinstatement. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 October 1979: 
1 ) Have restrictions been imposed on borrowings by the Commonwealth Development Bank (CDB). 
Will CDB borrowings require approval from the Loan Council. 
) Have restrictions been imposed on CDB borrowings to protect the Primary Industry Bank of Australia from the competition of the CDB 's lower interest and other charges. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 8 November 1 979: 
Were reports received from the Aboriginal settlement at One Arm Point, Western Australia on 1 7, 1 8 and 1 9 October 1979 that Indonesian fishermen had landed on Australian territory; if so: (a) what action was taken as a result of these reports, and (b) why did it take S days from the initial report for officials to arrive at One Arm Point and take action. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 14 November 1979: 
Does the Minister's statement in answer to Senate Question No. 2104 that he 'informed' the Member for New England on 27 September 1979 mean that he wrote a letter to the Member for New England; if so will he table the letter; if he did not write a letter, by what means was the Member for New England informed (see  Hansard,  13 November 1 979, page 2229). 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
Is the Department of Aboriginal Affairs moving offices from Wyndham to Kununurra; if so: (a) why; (b) what is the expected cost; (c) how is this cost justified; and (d ) what will happen to the Department's former office space and housing accommodation in Wyndham. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
1 ) How many houses are proposed to be built for Aboriginal people in the East Kimberley district during the financial year 1979-80. 
How many houses are proposed to be built or rented for employees of the Depanment of Aboriginal Affairs in this district during the same period. 
) What will be the cost in each case. 
How many Aborigines are employed by the Department at Kununurra. 
How many houses owned or rented by the Department at Kununurra are to be allocated to Aboriginal employees. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
Did the office of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs at Wyndham or Kununurra hire an airconditioned Avis hire car for at least two months in 1979; if so (a) why was this necessary; (b) for what total period was the car hired; and (c) what was the total of hiring the car. 
