
 -Mr President, my question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Can the Minister tell the House whether the Nimmo report has yet been presented. If it has been presented, when does the Minister propose to release his recommendations on the equalisation of freight for Tasmania? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that the Australian Broadcasting Commission's coverage of the Hobart Tattoo which is to be held next month has been withdrawn at this late stage, leaving the organisers without coverage at the moment? Can he ascertain the true reasons behind the refusal as technical difficulties' have been given as only part of the reason? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. Despite the impression that I may appear to be pushing the point, I ask: As there is still so much confusion regarding metric conversion, despite the Minister's quick and, I am quite sure, most accurate answer, will he consider deferring the completion date for the conversion? I am sure that not only the elderly but also the majority of the population would be most grateful if he were to do so. 
I should like the Senate to get back to some sensible questions. I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Posts and Telecommunications: To what degree is the Government going to develop the courier service in the capital cities? Is he aware that a large number of vans- from 500 to 600 vans- have been under cover in west Melbourne for the past 1 2 months? Can he say what will happen to these vans? 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  I rise to support the motion moved by my colleague,  Senator Knight,  one of the first 2 senators from the Australian Capital Territory. First I should like to congratulate the  President  on his election to the high office of the  President  of the Senate. From what has been said by honourable senators opposite as well as by Government senators, I look forward to working under his Presidency. I should also like to congratulate you,  Sir, on  your election as  Chairman  of Committees, and the new senators who have made their maiden speeches. I suppose that if male senators can make maiden speeches, so can I. It is a great honour for me to be standing here in this chamber and representing the State of Tasmania. I am conscious of the enormous trust that the electors of Tasmania have placed in me, and I will certainly try to fulfil their confidence. 
The first issue with which I will deal this evening is that of a small State- the south island of Australia, as all loyal Tasmanians like to call it. Tasmania is, without doubt, the most beautiful of all the States of the Australian Commonwealth. I do not think any honourable senators, not even those on the Government side, would care to debate that issue with me. The tempo of life, the small population with no large urban complexes, and the isolation give Tasmania many advantages that the larger States lack. In our cities the air is clean, the water is pure and the mother has not the same problems in raising her children as have her sisters in the larger States. One can still go fishing and be assured of bringing home a fine catch- something that is certainly denied the residents of the larger States. Our historic buildings and unspoiled wildernesses are two of the other resources that Tasmania has in abundance. I certainly endorse the efforts of the National Trust and the help recently afforded to Tasmania by Commonwealth agencies in the preservation of these resources, not only for Tasmanians but also for future generations of all Australians. However, as honourable senators realise, some of these advantages turn to gross disadvantages in terms of Tasmania's economy, for,  Mr Deputy President,  one cannot eat and drink beauty. 
Today in Tasmania the people are experiencing the highest unemployment rate of any State of Australia, inflation is out of control, and our transport costs make a mockery of competitive trade with the mainland. Our economic disabilities are clearly reflected in our relatively low average income per head of population. Tasmania has the lowest average income in the Commonwealth. However, it has not always been the lowest. Certainly, it has been the lowest over the last 3 years. I take a sample of States as a comparison: New South Wales, which has the highest average income; South Australia, where the average income is next lowest to Tasmania; and Tasmania. In 1971-72 the average weekly income in New South Wales was $95.90. In South Australia it was $85.30, $1.50 less than the rate in Tasmania, which was then $86.80. The Australian average at that time was $93. In 1974-75, towards the end of Labor's rule, the average weekly income in New South Wales was $ 1 5 1 .90. In South Australia it was $ 1 40.70 and in Tasmania it was $139.70. The Australian average was $148.40. In those 3 years Tasmania's average income had not only dropped from the second lowest to the lowest in the Commonwealth, but also the difference in the average weekly income between Tasmania and New South Wales had increased from $9 to $12. Instead of being $5.20 behind the national average, we were $8.70 behind. I hesitate to contemplate this year's figures. 
Honourable senators will see that this situation just cannot continue. The image of the Apple Isle is no longer a fact. The apple industry, along with the dairy industry, has been brought to its knees. Knitting mills have closed, and the timber, pulp and paper industries are struggling to compete with overseas imports. Along with all our other industries, the textile and tourist industries are screaming for freight and fare relief. The total value of Tasmania's exports, both overseas and interstate, fell last year by nearly 10 per cent. We must be given a fair go. We were written off as an economic disaster by the Labor Party. It reminded us all too often that we represented only the same number of votes as the city of Newcastle and so did not rate special attention. 
The people of Tasmania are now looking to the Liberal Government for the equality that our constitution affords us. Under the Fraser Government, Tasmanians can again expect a stable economic environment in which all people can work. 
The issues of freight equalisation are many and complex. As honourable senators know, legislation is now being framed and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is carrying out the Government's election promise to Tasmania. It is not just a simple philosophy of 'scrap all ports save one' that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  advocates. The issue is far more complex than that. Tasmania is the most decentralised of all Australian States. Compared with the national average of 64.5 per cent, 33 per cent of Tasmania's population live in urban complexes. Also, 26 per cent of Tasmanians live in rural areas, whereas the figure is 14 per cent for the rest of Australia. Therefore, it would be a pity to abandon the 'Four Port' system for temporary financial expediency alone, for, surely, all States are aiming for decentralisation. At the root of Tasmania's transport problems is the question of unreliability. If that problem could be overcome, all our problems would be solved. 
The number of man days lost on the waterfront by strikes in Melbourne in 1974-75 amounted to 12 917. That figure refers to 7-hour days. In Tasmania, the number of days lost on the waterfront by strikes amounted only to fiftysix. However, every time the waterfront in Melbourne went on strike the cost to Tasmania was devastating. The Labor Party failed to give us industrial peace. I only hope that as a result of the new industrial relations aimed at by this Government, responsible trade union leadership will minimise these losses. If these aims are accomplished, we are in business. If not, no form of assistance will have lasting benefit. In regard to transport, Bass Strait is Tasmania's biggest drawback. Generally speaking, unless a manufacturer in the private sector can export about 60 per cent of his total output and compete with mainland prices, he cannot hope to remain viable. The population of Tasmania is just not big enough. So the manufacturer is forced to specialise in areas of industry which export either to the mainland or overseas. Therefore Tasmanians rely heavily on imports, with added freight charges for goods that they consume. 
I would like to mention just a few of these articles- just a few because the list would be never ending- to show how the average housewife is disadvantaged. These prices were drawn to my attention this week and are a comparison between a 'prices crash' advertisement- one in the Melbourne  Herald  and one in the Hobart  Mercury.  Both advertisements were inserted on the same day by the same national chain of supermarkets. In Melbourne tomatoes were listed at 18c lb. They were 34c lb in Hobart. Bananas in Melbourne were 12c lb; in Hoban they were 2 lc lb. Grapes in Melbourne were 13c lb; in Hobart they were 22c lb. On those 3 items alone the difference is 34c. But we find, if we look at the figures put out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, that these increased prices are carried through to almost every food article the housewife buys such as tea, bread, butter and potatoes. Should she be so extravagant as to buy a dozen eggs she pays 9c extra. The housewife in Tasmania pays 64c more for a 4-lb leg of lamb. And so on. Whilst some of these items are readily produced in Tasmania, the production costs are all affected by freight charges. These are just a few of the additional charges affected by southbound freight. When we look at northbound freight we then get some insight into the damage that has been done to Tasmanian industry. 
The figures, as I have said, are complex. To put it simply, heavy cargo of high density is not penalised to the same extent as light cargo of low density- volume being the key in sea transport. The figures I am giving are the most recent available from the Bureau of Transport Economics; they are for September 1972. All honourable senators know that freight charges have risen since then by 32 '/i per cent for general northbound cargo with an additional 40 per cent for bulk cargo and paper. I shall give some of these charges. One ton of 40 cubic feet of heavy cargo- I apologise to  Senator Webster  for using the imperial terms 'ton' and 'feet' rather than the metric terms, but these are 1972 figures- from Devonport to Melbourne cost $7.81 compared with $6.20 that it would have cost to move the same cargo the same distance by rail on the mainland. In other words, it cost about 15 per cent more. This is bad enough but when it comes to light cargo of low density we get a far greater discrepancy. One ton of 1 40 cubic feet of cargo costs $25.80 to shift from Devonport to Melbourne compared with $8.70 by rail on the mainland. That is a difference of approximately 200 per cent. Is it any wonder that our industries are screaming out for relief? These facts, along with our lower wage structure, express our plight very clearly. We need relief from this unfair burden and we need it now. 
I should like now to speak briefly about some matters affecting women. During my campaign I was frequently asked questions relating to women. I replied then, and I still maintain, that women's issues are Australia's issues and Australia's issues are women's issues and any problems must be dealt with by all Australians. We women are not an underprivileged minority group as the radical feminists would have us depicted. We women in Australia are equal with our menfolk, and only those who wish to denigrate our sex would have us believe otherwise. However, one thing we must fight is not our male population but ourselves; for the only things standing in the way of women are the psychological barriers we ourselves impose. An example of this is the way we push our sons' education just a little harder than we push our daughters' education and, by so doing, make it harder for girls in their later years to reach their full potential. Changes in this approach are occurring; they should be encouraged. But we cannot change society's attitude overnight, and to try to do so only harms the women's cause. History teaches us that rapid change is rarely lasting. 
We are now drawing to the end of International Women's Year. It is hotly debated whether it has been a success or a failure. One thing is certain: It has brought women to notice more than any other single event has ever done. To me, the conference in Mexico City was successful in that it pointed out the diverse problems of women all over the world. Women from the underdeveloped nations were quite at a loss to understand the militant western women's attitude to matters they thought were trivial. After all, their main interest was to feed, clothe, shelter and educate their children- in other words, to bring up their families with dignity. The women from the western world were unable to comprehend, far less sit and listen, to such simple demands; for here in Australia we already have this. So the feminist activists have in our country turned the full circle and are no longer interested in assisting women in the home. Here I would like to quote Elizabeth Reid, the former adviser on women's affairs to the previous Prime Minister, who said that to assist women in the home: 
. is one of the most backward steps that could happen to the women 's movement. 
She stated further: 
All that would do, is to reinforce the existing sex roles in society. It doesn't question them at all. Wages for mothers is a right wing demand. Every fascist and reactionary political party in history has asked for it. It's one of the most effective means of keeping women where the fascists think we ought to be- in the house. 
This statement expresses more clearly than anything else could the lack of comprehension of some of the women activists. To begin with, the female of the human race is biologically the one to bear and nurture children. This fact is undeniable. It is also undeniable that the continuance of a stable society means stable citizens- and stable citizens come from a stable family background where the love of a mother for her child is of paramount importance. This fact is well supported by innumerable studies on human behaviour. To me, the provision of a happy, stable home is the most important task the average woman ever does. 
Governments have, over the years, assisted women to enter the work force through subsidies to child care centres, maternity leave and retraining schemes. While I find these changes most laudable and, in many circumstances completely necessary, I ask: How long is it since any government has assisted the woman in the home? The only assistance- that of child endowment- was first brought in by a Liberal Government in 1941. It was then 50c for the second child and subsequent children. In 1950 an endowment of 50c was introduced for the first child- again by a Liberal Government. This has varied very little in the intervening years. The last increase in child endowment was in 1971 under a Liberal Government. It was still 50c for the first child, but $ 1 for the second child, $2 for the third child and $2.25 for all subsequent children. It is this meagre allowance that induces women to put their children into child care centres and join the work force to keep up with the Joneses- the working sisters with their ever-increasing financial commitments. 
If women are to remain in the home they need to be given realistic endowment so that they have money of their own and can feel the same independence as that of their working counterparts. It is only then that women will be able to do what they like with their lives and reach their full potential. If they choose to stay at home and rear a family they can do so without detriment. If they choose to follow a career then they can do that also. In conclusion, I have been somewhat surprised to hear honourable senators on the other side of the chamber berate the GovernorGeneral their own appointee- for applying the country's Constitution, an action which was endorsed subsequently by the democratic vote of the people. I suggest that the will of the people has been expressed and it is time that the bitterness we have heard in this chamber ceased and we all pulled together as a Parliament to ensure that Australia is pulled out of the troubled times in which we find it today.  Mr Deputy President,  it gives me great pleasure to support the motion moved by  Senator Knight. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Before calling  Senator Sibraa,  I indicate that this will be his first speech in the Senate and I ask honourable senators to extend to him the usual courtesies. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of the legislation now being formulated, will the Minister take into consideration that as a result of the 6.4 per cent wage increase the Prices Justification Tribunal has just approved the following freight increases for 'Sea Pak': From Melbourne to Hobart 5.57 per cent; from Melbourne to Northern Tasmania, 2.57 per cent; from Sydney to Hobart, 6.37 per cent; and from Tasmania interstate, 2.57 per cent? Those increases are on top of the bulk Union Steam Ship increases that were brought in on 1 February, and are increasing still further Tasmania's transport burden. 

 -Mr President I direct my question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Minister aware that until 3 weeks ago in Tasmania passports were issued within four or five days and if really necessary, on the same day as the application was made? Is he aware that following a letter being issued by the Department of Foreign Affairs advising that a minimum of 4 weeks is now required, passengers have been forced either to cancel or to amend departures, tour programs have been in chaos and, as most business travel is expected to be organised in less than a month, this new departure is causing concern? Can the Minister investigate this situation for me? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I believe that yesterday the Premier of Tasmania waited upon the Prime Minister. Can the Minister tell the chamber whether the Premier, during his discussions of Tasmania's problems, made any inquiries regarding the Nimmo report or freight equalisation generally? If so, what were the results of his inquiries? 
-Can the Minister for Education inform the Senate when we can expect legislation concerning the maritime college at Launceston to be brought before the chamber? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Can the Minister inform the chamber of what extent the proposed Omega base to be set up in Tasmania will benefit the State in terms of employment opportunity, particularly in the setting up of that base and, to a lesser degree, in its operation? I believe that $8m is to be spent on the setting up and $500,000 on the maintenance. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunciations. Can the Minister inform the chamber whether there is any further information regarding the question I asked on 26 February about the filming of the military tattoo in Tasmania by the Australian Broadcasting Commission? I believe that at the moment the Tasmanian Government film unit is filming the tattoo very successfully. As this function is proving to be an outstanding success it seems a pity that the whole of Australia could be denied the opportunity to view it later. 
-I address my question to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. I refer to the announcement by the Government that it would establish a body called the Council for Intergovernmental Relations. I ask: Does the Government intend to proceed with this policy? If so, when? Will its location, as stated earlier, be in Hobart? What will be its structure? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. In view of the statement that the report on the reintroduction of cadet training would be available by about the end of February, and considering that it is now the end of March, can the Minister inform the chamber when the findings of that report and the following legislation are likely to be made known? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Is it a fact that some migrants, after becoming Australian citizens and qualifying for age pension benefits, return to their country of origin and are subsequently paid these welfare benefits for the rest of their lives? It has also been suggested that children of these people are deliberately bringing them out to Australia so that after a very short period they can return to their own countries and thereafter be paid Australian welfare benefits. 
We have just been subjected to a terrific tirade from  Senator McLaren.  He has gone over and over the matter and has repeated it three times. He has asked permission to incorporate those names, as he calls them, in  Hansard  knowing full well that they are already incorporated in  Hansard  and are already a public document. 
-They have been tabled already and they are as a result a public document. The Opposition's amendment is an indication of the type of Opposition we have in Australia. Ever since I have been interested in politics honourable senators opposite have tried to indulge in an organised campaign of hatred. As a matter of fact I have become increasingly aware that the Australian Labor Party as a whole has repeatedly indulged in this organised hate campaign against certain sections of our community. They have attempted to engender a real class hatred, something which Australians are not used to and something which Australians will not tolerate. We have always felt that Jack is as good as his master, and we have good reason to feel that way. If honourable senators opposite ask any migrant what he likes best about the Australian way of life he will probably say that it is the lack of class distinction as compared to the situation in his own country. 
I say to  Senator Georges  that it was not until I came to this chamber that I realised that honourable senators opposite particularly are the offenders in this regard. It appears that they would like to underline that description of themselves in their attempt to move this amendment. What on earth are they trying to do? Are they trying to intimidate this Parliament. Why does  Senator Walsh  refer to 400 tons? Does he receive only 390 tons? I would like to read the amendment and to point out to the Australian people through  Hansard  just what sort of an Opposition we have. The amendment states:   but the Senate is of the opinion that the Minister should cause to be tabled in each House of the Parliament a list showing the names and addresses of all companies and individuals whose purchases of superphosphate and ammonium superphosphate exceed 400 tons in a twelve months period and a list showing the amount of benefit accruing to such companies and individuals. ' 
The amendment points to one section of the community. Is the Opposition wanting to list all those wage earners who are affected by the tariffs which this Government has rightly imposed on every industry or is it once again just seeking to hit one section of the community and stir up the whole of the Australian population? What is wrong with honourable senators opposite? I would like to suggest that they should look a little more deeply into the subject and then they too may be able to support the Bill and do a service to all Australians including the wage earners who have been hit by the abolition of this bounty. 
If  Senator Walsh  will listen I will explain to him because he is obviously not capable of understanding that the wage earners have been affected. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Is the Minister for Education aware that a fear has arisen in certain quarters of the University of Tasmania that if the Karmel report on tertiary education in Tasmania is not implemented the Australian Universities Commission funding to our State will suffer severe cuts? Will the Minister give an assurance that these fears are unfounded? 
I present the following petition from 16 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that many Australians are concerned at the announced decision by the Australian Government to reduce the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote by $2 1 m, and by the abolition of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
We your petitioners do therefore humbly pray that the Australian Government: 
as a matter of urgency, reverse the decision to cut the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote, so as to ensure that the full amount appropriated by Parliament for Overseas Development Assistance is spent this financial year to meet the pressing needs of those in the developing countries; 
reaffirm Australia 's commitment of Overseas Development Assistance being a minimum of 0.7 per cent of GNP, and 
establish a fully independent statutory authority to administer Australia's official Overseas Development Assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Last night I was explaining to  Senator McLaren  why the Government opposed the incorporation of certain papers in  Hansard.  As the honourable senator knows, the list of names he sought to incorporate in  Hansard  has been tabled already and is a public document for anyone to read.  Senator McLaren  was just wasting the time of the Senate. I then pointed out to honourable senators opposite that if they considered the Bill a little more deeply, instead of indulging in a hate campaign against the farmers, they might realise that the wage earners also have been hit by the abolition of this bounty. At that time  Senator Walsh  queried what I said. I am sorry that he is not in the chamber now; if he were, perhaps I could explain the situation to him.  (Quorum formed)  People listening to this debate might be interested to know that when the quorum was called only one Labor senator was present. There were 10 Liberal and National Country Party senators in the chamber, but only one Labor Party senator. That may indicate to those who are listening to this debate the interest that members of the Australian Labor Party have in the farmers of this country. 
-There is still only one Labor senator in the chamber, even though we now have a quorum. My comments might bring a few Labor senators out of their holes in the House. I ask Labor senators to look a little more deeply into this Bill as I am sure that there are a number of aspects that have not yet been investigated fully. Come on in,  Senator Georges,  and join the only other Labor senator. 
I am glad you were listening. 
Every such objection must be taken at the time when such words are used, and will not be afterwards entertained. 

 Senator Georges, by his own admission, was absent from the chamber at the time that  Senator Walters  raised this matter. I suggest, therefore, that  Senator George's  point of order should not be entertained. 
My question also is directed to the Minister for Education. Has the Minister been informed by the Chancellor of the Australian National University of a letter written on his instruction by the Academic Registrar informing a student that membership of the Australian National University Students Association is compulsory and that failure to pay fees to the Association may lead to cancellation of enrolment? Is membership of the Students Association necessary before the Australian National University Council accepts a student's enrolment, even if the student may have serious conscientious objections to certain causes to which the Association makes financial contributions? Must a student violate his or her conscience in order to receive an education? A letter from a student states: 
It has come to my notice that the Students Association has a stated policy favouring abortion on demand. Because of this policy I find membership of that organisation to be totally incompatible with my membership of the Russian Orthodox Church and ask to be exempt from joining the said organisation. 
Could the Minister give consideration to amending the Australian National University Act to incorporate principles of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which enable persons who have a conscientious objection to joining an organisation to pay to the Industrial Registrar an amount of money equivalent to membership fees? In this instance it could be paid to the University Registrar. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. During the past few years of rapid inflation salaries have risen at a rate equal to if not in excess of the inflation rate. This is also true of the incomes of business and professional people who have found it necessary to keep pace. As a result, not only are their tax rates higher but also their assessments of provisional tax are higher. We have seen the waiving of company tax instalments by the Government in a move to assist private businessmen. However, no relief has been granted to those who do not trade in the company tax form. I am advised that in accordance with the previous Government's policy stated last August, the Taxation Office - 
I will give the Minister for Education a rest by directing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware of the article from the  Canberra Times  referred to by  Senator Ryan  last night? I quote her extractions:  the AMA passed the published 2 resolutions to the effect that after a certain date to be decided by it it would not refer patients to the salaried specialists nor would it accept patients referred from the salaried specialists. Also, the report stated, the AMA would establish a means test and decide which patients might under certain circumstances be referred. 
Can the Minister confirm my understanding of this supposed Australian Medical Association meeting? My understanding is that in point of fact it was a meeting held by visiting medical officers in private practice to Canberra hospitals and had nothing to do with the AMA, for not only were doctors who do not belong to the AMA present but the AMA was not consulted in any way at all. Does the Minister agree that before senators accept - 
Let me just explain it to you,  Senator. Would  you like me to repeat my question? Does the Minister agree that before senators accept newspaper articles as accurate they should do a little research of their own? 
-Has the Minister representing the Attorney-General seen the statement issued by the Attorney-General regarding the proposed extension of time for notice of marriage from one week to one month? Can the Minister assure the Senate that this is aimed as only as a general safeguard and that cases of special circumstances will be looked at according to their need? 
I rise to support the Superannuation Bill with some reservations because there are certain anomalies which have not previously been raised and which I hope the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  will investigate. I speak of superannuation when applied to the spouse's pension. When referring to the term spouse' for the purpose of the Act we find that a spouse is: 
a person who was legally married to the deceased person at the time of the person's death and who, at that time, was living with the person on a permanent and  bona fide  domestic basis; 
a person who was legally married to the deceased person at the time of the person's death but who was not living with the person on a permanent and  bona fide  domestic basis at that time, and who, in the opinion of the Commissioner, was wholly or substantially dependent upon the deceased person at that time; 
a person who was not legally married to the deceased person at the time of the person's death but who, for a continuous period of not less than 3 years immediately preceding the person's death, had ordinarily lived with the person as the person's husband or wife, as the case may be, on a permanent and  bona fide  domestic basis. 
There are other variations of these 3 main categories. But at no stage is a divorced spouse mentioned. We find that eligibility for a separated spouse is on the degree of dependency on the employee or pensioner, not on the number of years of contribution. We must all realise that a spouse who is simply living with and being supported by the employee over a period of years automatically and compulsorily assists in that employee's contributions. I feel that there would not be a senator in this chamber who would not agree that if 5 per cent of an employee's salary is taken in contributions the spouse- be it wife, mother or husband- shares in making those contributions by going without and often by going without in the area of personal economy. The fact that the contribution is so high- being intended to cover both employee and spouseprohibits the spouse from taking out insurance of his or her own. 
This compulsory or assisted contribution is recognised in the new amended Bill in that if a spouse is receiving the widows superannuation benefit and then remarries that benefit is not discontinued but is continued until the spouse's death. This recognises without doubt the spouse's share in that contribution and it removes the eligibility from dependency to entitlement. If this is recognised then the dependency status of the spouse on its own has no basis but the years of assisted contribution should be considered also for the eligibility of this benefit. This would do away also with the injustice of a separated spouse being unable to prove the necessary dependency because the partner over a period of years has failed to maintain the spouse- sometimes in direct conflict with a court order- and the spouse has been forced to take up any type of employment available, either fulltime or part-time. This is the first injustice. 
This brings us to the role of the divorced spouse compared to that of the separated spouse. There is no question in this Bill that the separated dependent spouse should be entitled to the benefit. But with the new divorce laws decreeing now that there be no necessity for fault to be proved, an employee may now divorce the spouse for no given reason. In fact, this sometimes does occur without the spouse's being aware that things had reached such a disastrous stage in their marriage. So we can have the case of an eligible employee divorcing his spouse after 35 years of marriage and perhaps 30 years of combined contribution to the Superannuation Fund and, while continuing to support her with alimony, living in a  de facto  relationship with another partner for just 3 years or even less. Upon the employee's death the pension benefit would go entirely to the person he had taken in a  de facto  relationship, thus leaving no support for the divorced spouse even though over 30 years the first spouse had contributed to the Superannuation Fund along with her partner. However, if after 35 years of marriage the employee separates from the legal spouse and, while continuing to support that spouse, takes on a  de facto  relationship, on the death of that employee the pension is snared, at the Commissioner's discretion, between the supported spouse and the  de facto  spouse. This appears to me to be a grave injustice. It is covered in clause 1 10 ( 1 ) of the Superannuation Bill, which reads: 
Where a person who is an eligible employee or a retirement pensioner dies and is survived by more than 1 person who is a spouse of the person for the purposes of this 
Act- Ca) spouse's benefit is payable to those persons, where the benefit is a pension, at such a rate as would be applicable if there were 1 surviving spouse only or, where the benefit is a lump sum benefit, that benefit shall be such amount as would be applicable if there were 1 surviving spouse only . . . 
So we see that the benefit is divided between the separated spouse and the  de facto  spouse at the Commissioner's judgment. Clause 1 10 ( 1) of the Bill continues: 
the benefit is payable to those persons in such proportions as the Commissioner determines or, where the benefit is a pension, as the Commissioner, from time to time determines, having regard to the respective needs of those persons and to such other matters as he considers relevant. 
Since the introduction of the new divorce laws there is very little difference between a separated spouse and a divorced spouse: Both are supported by their husbands; in both cases the husband can live in a  de facto  relationship and so, upon his death, there are 2 spouses to share his benefit. I maintain that in this instance the divorced spouse is subjected to a great injustice. As we can see, the second injustice is easily rectified by the definition of a spouse being extended to include the divorced spouse. As I have said, these matters have not been raised previously in this chamber but I have raised them with both the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman)  and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson).  The matters affect the Minister for Repatriation in respect of his Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Amendment Bill. He has indicated that he is very sympathetic and that he will have the matters investigated. The Minister Assisting the Treasurer has showed his concern also and is willingly having the matters investigated. These are just 2 of the anomalies that I should like to bring before the chamber tonight. 
-Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen the headlines in the Tasmanian newspaper  Mercury  declaring that drastic cuts in health and welfare spending and a reduction in taxation would be part of a mini-Budget considered this weekend at a special meeting of the Cabinet Economic Committee? Can the Minister inform the chamber of the accuracy of this statement? 
-Can the Minister representing the Treasurer inform the chamber when a national rural bank will be established to assist the rural sector with long term loans at better than bank interest? When does the Government propose to establish a farm income reserve fund which will allow for some stabilisation of rural incomes? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Can the Minister assure the Senate that the Government will not countenance the 1 977 subsidy of $1 a case for 2 million cases as recommended for the apple and pear industry by the Industries Assistance Commission but that the Government is committed to assisting this industry to regain its viability? I ask this question because of the concern in my State arising from rumours initiated by these recommendations? 
I present the following petition from 25 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that many Australians are concerned at the announced decision by the Australian Government to reduce the 1975-76 overseas development assistance vote by $2 1 million, and by the abolition of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
We your petitioners do therefore humbly pray that the Australian Government: 
As a matter of urgency, reverse the decision to cut the 1975-76 overseas development assistance vote, so as to ensure that the full amount appropriated by Parliament for overseas development assistance is spent this financial year to meet the pressing needs of those in the developing countries: 
Reaffirm Australia's commitment of overseas development assistance being a minimum of 0.7 per cent of GNP, and 
Establish a fully independent statutory authority to administer Australia 's official overseas development assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I asked a similar question some time ago and wonder whether the Minister can yet inform the chamber when an announcement is likely to be made on the reintroduction of the cadet system. Many schools are being disadvantaged by being unable to plan their cadet program along with planning their school year. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health seen the report of the State Minister for Health in Tasmania, who is indulging in a campaign to create feelings of panic in the citizens of that State by suggesting that everyone could be paying up to $1,000 a year for health insurance and that hospital fees for a woman having a baby will cost her $500, if the State agrees with the new proposals? Can the Minister allay the fears of the community by a denial of these irresponsible statements? 
I present the following petition from 498 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Associations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well-being of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Has the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs noticed the outburst from the Premier of Tasmania that indexed taxation would mean reduced money for the States? Seeing the Premier welcomed the new federalism policy just a short while ago, does the Minister think that the Premier is now trying to backtrack and join the New South Wales bandwagon on the double taxation scare campaign, as an election is due in our State shortly? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. I note that in March the Minister instigated a review of the Sydney telephone interpreter service. Will, she inform the chamber whether this very worthwhile service will be extended and, if so, to what extent? 
I support the Apple and Pear Stabilization Amendment Bill 1976 with some reservations, for I am aware that the proposed assistance to be given to orchardists in my State is barely a survival subsidy and nothing more. I take exception to  Senator Wriedt's  inference that  Senator Wright  was insincere.  Senator Wriedt  obviously does not know the honourable senator or he would never make remarks like that. There is one senator in this House who is never insincere and that is  Senator Wright.  He knows the apple orchard and the apple industry better than anyone else in this chamber, and he is never insincere in this respect. As regards the difference between a Democrat and a Geeveston Fanny, I will tell  Senator Wriedt  because obviously he does not know. A Democrat is red all over and very good for cooking. A Geeveston Fanny is yellow, slightly flecked with red and very good for eating. 
It is time we in Australia made up our minds about where our priorities lie, whether we are prepared to support our primary producers who supply 46 per cent of our nation's products or whether we will abandon our rural sector and make the people try to chase the mighty dollar in the big cities which have unemployment. Whether we like it or not, our priorities must first lie with the necessaries of life, to see our countrymen fed, clothed and sheltered. If we abandon the rural sector- that 7 per cent of our people- then the 93 per cent, along with New Zealanders who are the best fed and cheapest fed people in the world, will wonder what has happened to them. 
In this country, yes,  Senator Georges. 
-The honourable senator would not know about it; that is very obvious. We have been so thoroughly spoiled in this wonderful land of ours that we forget that the food we are given that we take as our God-given right has been bred, fed and cultivated and harvested by the sweat of that 7 per cent. We forget that although $175 a week is our average wage, the farmer, with his 70-hour week- ours is a 35 to 40-hour week- is not in some cases even getting as much as the unemployment relief, a sum which is calculated, as honourable senators know, for temporary measures. In case honourable senators think I am exaggerating, the average annual income of a farmer in the Huon Valley has been estimated at $3,000. 
-That is his real income, yes. Next year the position will possibly be worse because a lot of the farmers have in desperation used the last of their forests and sold to the wood chip industry. I stress this average, which shows that what I was saying about some of the farmers working a 70 to 80-hour week and not earning as much as unemployment benefits is not an exaggeration but a fact of life. I would like to congratulate the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  who has recently made it possible for those families to apply for and receive relief from her department. 
It is some consolation,  Senator O'Byrne.  If honourable senators like to ask why the farmers stay on the land the answer is simple. They are men of the land. They love the land. There is nothing else they are fitted for. Let us face the cold hard facts. Where would they get employment if they sold their properties? Who would buy the properties and for how much? It is heartbreaking to go down to the Huon or the Tasman Peninsula in our State. If any honourable senators opposite still think we pay our farmers too much I will issue an invitation to them and take them down to see the results of the tree-pull scheme in 1973-75 when 40 per cent of the trees were grubbed out, stacked in the paddocks and burned. 
It is an absolute disgrace; it is a most appalling sight. I do not care who introduced it. It is the most appalling sight I have ever seen. The Industries Assistance Commission, after recommending a $2 subsidy for 2 million cases for 1976, is now recommending a $1 subsidy for 2 million cases for 1977.  Senator Wriedt  and the shadow Minister for Primary Industry,  Senator Gietzelt,  are saying that we ought to accept this and phase out our industry. 
-No. It has not accepted the S 1 subsidy for 2 million cases and it will not accept that recommendation from the IAC. 
-We will see,  Senator Mulvihill.  That would be the finish of a $ 1 9m export industry in Tasmania, a finish to an industry that has been built up over 3 generations. Through no fault of their own, heaven knows, these orchardists are probably the only people left who have worked as hard as their grandfathers worked and for as many hours. It is no fault of their own that they are being cast aside by the Commissioners of the IAC. As  Senator Wright  says, every Tasmanian will take every step in his power to make sure this does not happen. The Government did not abide by the $2 subsidy for 2 million cases recommended for this year. We have already promised, along with the States, an increase of 500 000 cases. I hope that these cases will not be tied to the European market but will be given to the new markets that are available in Asia and America. 
We will have nothing to do with this phasing out. As I have said, this year's subsidy was barely a survival subsidy. It, in itself, has spelled the death knell of a lot of the small orchardists. As  Senator Wriedt  says, in the long term this might be all right for those orchardists. However, some of these orchardists and Australians must have just a little faith in the apple industry. A short time ago the wool market was at an all time low and the farmers were encouraged to get out of wool and get into beef. 
I am not saying who encouraged them. I do not care who encouraged them. If the honourable senator will listen to me I will explain to him the point I am trying to make. They were encouraged to get out of sheep and encouraged to get into beef. However, there were enough men who had enough faith in the wool industry and enough faith that wool was the best fibre that man would ever know, and who stuck by the industry. They fought through the hard times and now once again the wool industry is worth $9,235m. How would it have been if these courageous men had not had faith in their product. Of course wool is a different matter. Wool is able to be stored while apples will deteriorate. Similar action cannot be taken. In our State we have enough men who have faith in the apple industry. All they are asking the Australian people to do is to give them the necessary backing for just a few years to enable them to prove that their faith is justified and that the apple industry will become viable and an asset to our country. 
There is a suggestion abroad that continually to subsidise an industry that is not a going concern is a ridiculous proposition. That is what  Senator Wriedt  was saying tonight. What is a going concern? Let us take the automobile industry as an example. Here we have another industry that is very important to our country. We produce annually 429 700 vehicles for our home industry and only 4277 assembled cars for export. Automobile production is worth $137m to our export industry. That is because unassembled cars and spare parts are included in the figure. All this is accomplished by the protective tariffs that are applied to imported cars and which are paid for by the Australian consumer. That is done because we need the automobile industry. We need the employment it creates. There are men who have the faith to believe that given time and a little technology we will soon have more competitive prices and the tariffs can be reduced. That, as honourable senators know, applies also to many other industries, but I would like to continue with the automobile industry. 
The Industries Assistance Commission's report estimates that the tariff rate of 45 per cent on completely built up vehicles results in a net subsidy of the equivalent of $4,000 per employee not only of the manufacturers but of the component suppliers as well. Perhaps that brings the subsidies granted to the primary producers into perspective. In 1974-75, $2,875,634 was paid out in subsidies to the apple and pear industry. There were 359 apple growers who could have received those subsidies. So the average subsidy to an apple employer, if you like, was $8,000. Is $8,000 to one employer really too much? I wonder how many employees those apple growers employed. It would be a lot more than two, if we compare them with the car manufacturers who get $4,000 per employee. 
We need the primary producers not only for the employment they create but also because we need to eat. We need to eat for our very survival and we need to realise that. If we look upon them in any lesser light than we do our automobile industry we will have in our land the situation where food will become a luxury, where the average Australian will not know what a balanced diet is all about. Our protein will have to come from imports. Our children will not know what fresh apples and fresh milk tastes like. We in Australia have the cheapest balanced diet in the world. I have in front of me figures compiled by the Legislative Research Service from information contained in an article in the  Financial Times,  London, of 5 January 1974, in which the cost of a balanced food basket is compared to the average weekly earnings of a construction worker, a bank clerk and a secretary living in selected cities of the world. The earnings of these selected occupations were taken into account, as the average weekly earnings is not used as a basis in all of those countries. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table that I have. It gives the details for the 3 occupations but I will talk only about the construction worker to make my speech clear. 

<graphic href="068232197605272_86_1.jpg"></graphic>

-The cities that have been taken into account are Sydney, New York, Montreal, London, Paris, Rome, Dusseldorf - 
-The other city is Wellington in New Zealand, which will bring the matter closer to home for the honourable senator. I will now discuss the comparison in relation to a construction worker's wage. Here, for the sake of clarity, as I have said, I will leave the others for honourable senators to read in  Hansard.  In Sydney the basket represented 7.8 per cent of the worker's weekly earnings. In New York it was 9.3 per cent; in Montreal it was 8.7 per cent; in London it was 25 per cent; in Paris it was 33.8 per cent; in Rome it was 34.2 per cent; in Dusseldorf it was 34.61 per cent; and in Wellington, New Zealand, it was 15.4 per cent. I repeat that the figure for Sydney was 7.8 per cent. Is it any wonder that our farmers are crying out for a little support when 93 per cent of our population is eating better and more cheaply than anyone anywhere else in the world and at the farmer's expense. 
Yet honourable senators opposite, as  Senator Georges  is about to do, say - 
You were about to say: Oh, go on! ' Anyway, with  Senator Georges'  unfailing regularity, I do not doubt for one minute that he will be saying: 'The wealthy farmers'. I have heard him say that so often. 
It will not be long before the superphosphate bounty is mentioned and there is talk about 'the wealthy farmer'. Anyway, the average real income per farm in 1 975-76, Australia-wide and not just orchardists, is $4,700. 
-Just a minute. It is just half of the average weekly earnings of the Australian population. 
Just a minute. It is just a little over the $4,000 we so happily give for each employee of the automobile industry. All this brings me back to what we are going to do about assisting the apple and pear grower in Australia. As I have said, all we need is a little bit of faith to establish new markets. 
Over the past 10 years the European markets have been declining rapidly Ten years ago the apple and pear industry provided 22 per cent of Tasmania's total exports. By 1974-75 it had fallen to 4. 1 per cent. As the European markets dwindle the American and Asian markets are starting to become a reality, even though  Senator 
Gietzelt will not agree with me here. However we have left our move a bit late and our competitors have taken advantage of this. Our apple growers are not businessmen and the markets must be sought out for them. Here is a large area for improvement. Our marketing system must be more efficient but, to do the marketers justice, 1 point out that it is very difficult to compete with our main competitors in New Zealand, South Africa and Argentina for those countries have just had devaluations and therefore can sell their fruit at a far more competitive price. I am not suggesting that we should devalue our currency; but I am suggesting that we should take this into consideration when we are talking in terms of assistance. There must be reasonable help for the industry for a period of three to five years so that the orchardists can plan. They are the most efficient marketers in the world. They need to plan their production. It takes 15 years for a tree, once planted, to reach its full bearing capacity. So, how can we expect a farmer to plan his orchard with no knowledge of how he will be treated by the Government next year? He must be given confidence to go ahead and fight for those Asian markets. 
At the moment assistance has not been given to establish those new markets. I hope that this will be remedied by the support in respect of the additional 500 000 cases of apples of which we have spoken. This is the greatest area for help that will give long term benefit. The sooner assistance is given to establish new markets, the sooner this subsidy will be reduced. One must look also to long term assistance, such as the establishment of a rural bank for long term borrowing at better than bank interest rates, which is essential to our rural sector, and a farm reserve fund to which primary producers may subscribe without their money being taxed unless it is withdrawn in the same year and subscriptions to which would earn interest at the rate earned by money invested in short term government securities. The deposit, when withdrawn, would be taxed along with the income of the farmer for that year. Of course, this is a long term benefit only and none of our apple orchardists would have the money to contribute to such a fund now. These 2 long term objectives are part of our Government policy. I am looking forward to the implementation of those objectives at the first opportunity. 
Another area in which we can assist is that of unemployment. Our apple growing area has the highest unemployment rate in the State, and that is in a State which itself has the highest unemployment rate in Australia. So, as honourable senators can see, the position is absolutely critical. I believe that the average Australian wants to work and that he finds it degrading to take a handout without having earned it. If that is so- I believe it is- perhaps the Department of Social Security could pay the unemployment benefit and let those receiving it spend perhaps 2 days working for the orchardists or other farmers who, under a means test system, can prove that they no longer can afford to employ farmhands. This scheme could be extended to additional days if the farmer could afford to add to that benefit. I realise the pitfalls associated with the implementation of a system such as this; but I do not believe that these problems are insurmountable. It would serve both parties, the farmer and the unemployed. The scheme bears looking into. I ask the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to investigate the practicability of this scheme. 
We have seen on television, read in the newspapers, heard on radio and seen at first hand the tragic methods that have been resorted to by farmers who have been unable to sell their stock. We see farmers, who have been the most conservative, placid and hardworking members of our community, rising up and threatening to block the roads, to withhold their produce and to take action of which they normally would never have any part. We must be prepared to back them. Unless we do, we should be equally unprepared to back any other industry in this country that cannot stand on its own 2 feet in equal competition with industry in the rest of the world. I commend the Bills to the Senate. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Education. As the Minister for Education in my State of Tasmania is still talking about Federal education cuts and as this has inspired many letters to both myself and other honourable senators from schools in our State showing concern regarding those supposed cuts, will the Minister once again spell out the facts in relation to the maintenance of the Schools Commission and the proposed spending on education, with particular reference to the Karmel report. 
I present the following petition from 34 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that many Australians are concerned at the announced decision by the Australian Government to reduce the 1975/76 Overseas Development Assistance vote by $21 million, and by the abolition of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
We your petitioners do therefore humbly pray that the Australian Government: 
as a matter of urgency, reverse the decision to cut the 1975/76 Overseas Development Assistance vote, so as to ensure that the full amount appropriated by Parliament for Overseas Developent Assistance is spent this financial year to meet the pressing needs of those in the developing countries; 
reaffirm Australia's commitment of Overseas Development Assistance being a minimum of 0.7 per cent of GNP, and 
establish a fully independent statutory authority to administer Australia's official Overseas Development Assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I rise to support the Bill bearing in mind that the modifications to Medibank will not come into operation until 1 October. This delay is, deliberate. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has given an undertaking that this time lag will be used to enable the Government to discuss the details of the Bill with the voluntary health funds and other interested parties. Already some details are being looked at in the light of some injustices which were pointed out in early meetings. As  Senator Jessop  has said, the Minister is still meeting with various bodies for further discussions. 
I would like to answer just a few of the points raised by previous speakers from the other side of the chamber. Firstly, I refer to the objection raised by  Senator Melzer  regarding her 73 funds and their 73 administrative costs. It sounds like a true socialist doctrine to me. She forgets that with true competition between the funds the tariffs imposed will be kept within reason. 
Just listen to me. I gave  Senator Melzer  a fair go. 
-Well, I did after I was called to order by the Chair. The honourable senator forgets that the competition between these funds keeps the cost within reason, as is the case with all other private enterprise. 
That sounds like a true socialist doctrine to me. The honourable senator said also that there was no delay period allowed for in the Bill. She should read the Bill a little more carefully. If she does, she will find that there is a 2-month delay, so someone who wants to opt out of Medibank and join a private fund has 2 months in which to do so, during which time that person pays into the fund but is not entitled to claim benefits. 
Also  Senator Sibraa  said that there will be one system for the wealthy and an inferior system for the poor. Is the honourable senator suggesting that the present Medibank system is an inferior one? I point out that this is exactly what the Medibank system will be when people pay a levy. If he thinks that the present Medibank system is an inferior system, I point out to him that it is the system under which people will receive care in the future. The honourable senator then went on to cite the Government's financial package under which he admits that everybody will benefit, some to a greater extent and some to a lesser extent. But let us face the fact that this Government package includes the payment of that Medibank levy. So people are still receiving the benefit. Thus, they are still better off. I wish that the honourable senator would try to explain to me what he was getting at. 
However, I would like to discuss the main aims of the Bill. As I have said, the Australian people will be given for the first time a real choice. It will enable those who can afford to pay for their health care to pay for it. 
-Just listen,  Senator Ryan.  Those who cannot afford to pay for it will not be paying for it. This includes the pensioners. As honourable senators have pointed out previously, the only compulsion is for someone to remain in a scheme, either Medibank or a private health system. I point out to  Senator Melzer  that if a person opts out of the private health system, that person will come back under the Medibank system. So nobody will be left out in the cold, as the honourable senator hinted. As we all know, the previous costs under Medibank passed all expectations.  Senator Ryan  says that the original system should have been kept, no matter what the cost. We have found from experience in other countries which have similar open-ended medical schemes that these costs would have accelerated until they nearly sent the country broke. Let me take as an example England and look at the mess in that country. It has the same open-ended system - 
-It is exactly the same open ended system. These modifications that we are bringing in will save the country an estimated $800m in the Budget. That is a very considerable amount. We have not had a free medical scheme to date. There is no free scheme. This is something that the previous Government did not stress at any time. It lead the people to believe that we have had a free medical scheme. There is no such thing as a free medical scheme.  Senator Sibraa  and  Senator Melzer  said that the people will not be able to afford to pay for medical cover. Who on earth is paying for the medical cover at the moment if it is not the people? They are paying for it with their taxes. I wonder what percentage of their taxes are paid into the Medibank system at the moment. At this time we are paying $ 1 ,400m into Medibank. No taxpayer knows how much he is paying or what percentage of his taxes go into the Medibank scheme. At least - 
-This may well have been a fault. At least now we will know what we are paying and to whom we are paying the money. There will be no hidden costs. 
I wish I had. However, there is now a choice available to the people. They can either pay for their health cover with their taxes or join the private health funds if this is what they want to do. 
-We have had that interjection,  Senator Ryan.  The new modifications create fair competition between the Government Medibank scheme and the private health schemes. This is in line with all our Government's policies. The $300 Medibank premium will cover 85 per cent of the doctor's salary in his surgery plus public hospital care with a public hospital doctor. This compares very favourably with the expected $350 premium for the private family insurance. 
I ask  Senator Melzer  to listen for a minute. The private family insurance premium will give private hospital care with the doctor of your choice with 85 per cent cover for the scheduled fee of the doctor in a surgery. I would like to stress at this point that the single person's premium will be exactly half of those premiums I have quoted. I have quoted $350 as the premium for private family insurance. The Minister has this as an expectation of what it will be. The Victorian Hospital Benefits Association has already made a rough estimate that has set the insurance premium at $330 a year. So I am not quite sure what Opposition senators are talking about - 
-We will wait and see. The amount of $330 is the estimate of one of the funds. I know that  Senator Grimes  would not like that figure to be advertised. This gives the lie to the distorted and exaggerated claims by some Labor Party members, such as  Mr Farquhar,  the Minister for Health in my State of Tasmania, that Medibank will cost in the vicinity of $1,000 a family. This is not only dishonest but also is calculated to panic the Australian community, for there are few people who honestly believe that a Minister of any government would seek political capital by making such wild and dishonest accusations. I only hope that the Tasmanian people realise that an election is imminent and that this is the reason the Minister for Health in that State is coming out with these exaggerated comments. 
As has been explained already, there are 4 options. The first is staying in Medibank and paying a levy. The second is staying in Medibank and paying the Medibank premium of $300. The third is staying in Medibank, paying the levy and an additional estimated $2.60 a week for private health insurance for hospital cover for a family. The fourth option is opting out of Medibank altogether and joining a private health scheme. As I have said, that will cost roughly $350 a year for a family cover. For those who are on lower incomes and who do not earn enough to pay the levy, they will receive full Medibank cover. Bulk billing under Medibank will remain available to the doctors. They will be entitled to charge the extra 15 per cent above their scheduled fee about which the Opposition has been complaining so bitterly. The maximum difference between the benefit and the scheduled fee for any one item will still remain at $5. Any patient is entitled to seek tax deductions for the remaining part of the doctor's fee not covered by Medibank or the private system. 
There are other modifications which have been considered necessary. I am certain that even  Senator Grimes  will not object to this one. Medibank will continue to pay benefits incurred by patients eligible for third party insurance and workers compensation. However, Medibank will seek reimbursement when compensation has been paid. This has not been done in the past and has caused a tremendous drain on Medibank funds up to date. Also it is proposed to repeal section 1 8 of the Health Insurance Act to allow diagnostic services such as X-rays to be performed on private patients who for some reason or other find themselves in public hospitals. The doctor will now be able to charge them on a fee for service basis as a private patient in a public hospital. 
I do not want to go into all the detail contained in the Bill. It has been done already throughout the debate. But there are some areas that are being re-examined. However, I would like to stress that the main aim of the Bill is to create fair competition between the private and public sectors by keeping the prices down to a reasonable level. This has always been the aim of the private health funds and the Government. This will be maintained. The private health funds will act as a vehicle to enable individuals to exercise that noble quality which has been notably lacking in society today, namely, that of personal responsibility for a person 's own welfare rather than relying on the State. I commend the Bills to the Senate. 
I rise with great pride to support these Bills. As honourable senators may remember, a large part of my maiden speech was devoted to the need for a large increase in child endowment. I felt at the time that it was the only method open to the Government to give women the real choice they have been seeking for so long. Whether we like it or not, we live in an age of materialism where the value of the contents of a home is sometimes considered to be over and above the value of the atmosphere in that home. Society is putting great pressure on the average mother to join the already over-taxed work force. This is being done in many ways, both blatant and insidious. Some radical liberationists preach that the freedom of women is the eradication of family responsibility. At a women's centre in Hobart the words 'A Family is Woman's Bondage' depict this attitude better than I can describe it. Women are assured that their brains will stagnate and that they are real no-hopers if they stay at home and bring up their families in the time-honoured tradition. 
Past governments have joined these pressure groups, and again women were told what fools they were if they did not work. Federal governments have supported working mothers by providing subsidised child care centres and maternity and paternity leave. Many mothers who bring up their children in the home have stopped and wondered if they could really afford to do what they have always wanted to do. Recently I attended a seminar in Hobart relating to women in the unions which was conducted by the trade union movement. Many women present claimed that, given a real choice, they would much prefer to stay at home with their children but that up to date a real choice had not existed. This Government has taken the first step in allowing them such a choice. It is the first time since 1 94 1 , when  Mr Menzies  brought in the original child endowment, that any government has given serious thought to the mother in the home. We have heard criticism of this scheme by those who are objecting to the fact that the child rebate will no longer be an allowance against the father's tax and that the mother is now the one who has the money. 
I have heard it from  Senator Melzer.  To me, that is the beauty of the scheme for at last the mother will have money of her own to spend on her own priorities, despite what the honourable senator said. To some degree, the mother now will have that feeling of independence which her working counterpart has always had. 
If the honourable senator will wait I will tell him how much a week it will be. This feeling of independence is most important, no less to the mother in the home. It is interesting to note that honourable senators opposite loudly acclaim that they are the ones who care for the underprivileged and that this Government is interested only in the wealthy farmers and so on. However, if we look back into history we will find that the first Government to introduce a non-contributory old age and invalid pension was not a Labor Government but  Mr Deakin's  protectionist Government in 1908. Again, the first Government to bring in child endowment was the Liberal Government of 1941. 
-But on a Federal basis it was a Liberal Government in 1941. That too was done at a critical time when people were called to make sacrifices because our country was at war. The Government of the day recognised that in times of crisis it is the mother with a family who is in need of help. This legislation represents a great social change. However, the Bill involves a greater redistribution of social welfare benefits than any previous legislation has attempted. It will bring substantial increases to the incomes of 300 000 low income familiesSenator Melzer wondered whether they existwith 800 000 children. This increase comes without strings. It is completely tax free and goes directly to the mother. The old rebate system was of no help to these families because their earnings were not high enough to take full advantage of the tax rebates. As the Minister has pointed out, the increases are really meaningful and will be of immense assistance to the low income families. A family with one child will receive $14 a month; with 2 children $34 a month; with 3 children $58 a month; with 4 children $82 a month, and with 5 children $110 a month. As I have said, the payment is normally made to the mother, but in the case of separation it will go to the parent who has custody of the children. It will be paid to single parent families as well. Full time students will be treated as dependent children. 
Debate interrupted. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Seeing the community at large is still this morning being told that the Government has broken an election promise and is disbanding Medibank, could she inform the chamber of the Prime Minister's promise during the time of the general election that Medibank would be looked at and that minor changes would take place? 
-Late last night I was about to conclude my remarks on the Social Services Amendment Bill (No. 2). I pointed out that the Bill was primarily aimed at assisting low income families, 300 000 of whom will benefit greatly from the Bill. I add that in the future full time students will be treated as dependent children with a minimum of assistance to the mother of $ 1 4 a month if those children happen to be the only children. The dependent age of a full time student has been increased from 2 1 to 25 years. New claims will need to be lodged for those whose claims for a student of 2 1 years have expired. General publicity will be given to the new conditions of eligibility. This is a magnificent Bill. It is a pity that honourable senators opposite have not been lavish in their praise. I am proud to belong to a Government which has had the sensitivity to bring the Bill before the chamber. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
-Is the Minister for Education aware that erroneous statements have been made by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate to the effect that Tasmania's education system has been one of the biggest casualties of the Budget and that the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education had been the biggest sufferer? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health indicate whether Medibank Private will cover chronically ill patients insured under the higher Table 2 for as long as they are in hospital? 

 -Mr President, I rise to support the Budget Papers. I think that the only quotation  Senator Button  left out of his speech was what we said right from the beginning, namely, that it would take 3 years to rectify the terrible mistakes made by the present Opposition. That was said during the election campaign. The Budget is aimed primarily at caring for the people who, for one reason or another, are unable to look after themselves, the people in whom our Government has been interested all along. Let us look at the way this Budget cares for those people. For the first time in Australia's history since the New South Wales and Victorian non-Labor governments and the Deakin non-Labor coalition government introduced the age pension, this Government has tied pensions once and for all to the consumer price index. This will succeed finally in protecting the aged, the invalids, the widows, repatriation beneficiaries and supporting mothers in our community from the hardships incurred as a result of inflation. In future, no legislation will be necessary to bring about these pension increases. This will stop any further political delay. 
There are increases also in benefits for the sick and the unemployed. Special benefits have been increased as have the benefits for sheltered workshop employees and tuberculosis sufferers. We have abolished the special property factor in the means test for pensions. The means test now will be based only on a person's income. This measure will benefit thousands of people who previously were disadvantaged because through their thrift they had invested in a family home. As  Senator Martin  said, we have assisted through our new family allowance scheme those 300 000 low income families, with their 800 000 children, who previously just did not have sufficient income to benefit from tax rebates for their children. Under our new scheme, while the breadwinner will lose his small rebate the mother of the family will collect the full family allowance which is equivalent to that rebate and more. 
We have increased the handicapped children's allowance from $10 a week to $15 a week and the benefit payable to institutions caring for those children from $3.50 a day to $5 a day. We have implemented tax indexation. This is the greatest tax legislation ever passed in this country and it will benefit all sections of the community. This has cost the Government $ 1,000m in revenue. These are just a few examples of what this Government has done for the people of our community who have no strong trade unions behind them, who have looked to our Government and have not been disappointed. 
I have never had anyone write my speech for me. In bringing down the Budget, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  reaffirmed that the Government's first priority was to reduce inflation. This has been interpreted by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  as assisting only the businessmen- the free enterprise section of our community. I would like to look at this accusation more closely because I am sure that this statement is the result of the socialism which is part of the political platform of the Opposition. Inflation is certainly the No. 1 enemy of those on fixed incomes. Granted, it is also the enemy of the employer and the employee alike. But the people hardest hit by inflation are those whose incomes are static, those disadvantaged people and low wage earners of whom Professor Henderson talks in his report on poverty. So long as our Government is treating inflation, it is also assisting those who cannot pass on the inflationary increases as businessmen do; it is assisting the underprivileged. 
We have been told that we are making too much of a fuss about inflation and too much of a fuss about cutting the deficit. It was only 14 years ago that we in Australia did not know the meaning of inflation. Inflation must not become a thing we are forced to live with, because apart from anything else it destroys our ability to compete overseas. If we cannot compete overseas, we have no overseas money. If we have no overseas money we have no imports. If we cannot import, there is gross unemployment because 65 per cent of our imports are used for Australian production. The latest consumer price index figures are very encouraging; but Australia's inflation rate is still running at 12.3 per cent compared to 6.2 per cent in the United States of America - 
It is 12.3 per cent. In Japan the inflation rate is 8.8 per cent and in West Germany it is 5 per cent. The position has improved since last year. Our inflation rate then was 16.9 per cent. Things are looking better. If  Senator Button  would only look at the stock market position, he might see that confidence has returned. The Budget has been called an incentive Budget by the businessmen of Australia; but the Leader of the Opposition has tried to denigrate the Budget and to stir up once again that division in the community which he so often has tried to foster. I have spoken about this before in the Senate. I refer to the destructive boss versus worker attitude which has no place in Australia. It is time the Opposition realised that, unless we in Australia have voted out socialism once and for all and have shown that our country has full confidence in democracy, the people of Australia will lose the freedom they have taken for granted for so long. Let us realise that it is only in a democracy that free trade unions exist. In other countries where socialism, totalitarianism, communism or any other ism exists, there are no free trade unions. Trade unions cannot strike for better conditions. The worker works where he is told to work. There is only one boss- the ruling party. Australia has come pretty close to socialism. We have heard many socialistic utterances from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  Even  Dr Evatt  a long time ago said: 
The taking away in the future of the right of the individual to choose his own vocation and employer is only one of the freedoms the Australian people must be prepared to forgo in the interests of the State. 
-The honourable senator says 'Oh! ' He was a good Labor man. Those Australians who believe that there is such a thing as democratic socialism no doubt are very sincere people. I would like to quote  Mr Russell  Prowse who described democratic socialism in this way: 
Democratic socialism is the euphoric passing state from democracy to socialism. 
I suggest to those sincere people who believe that there is such a thing as democratic socialism that they should look a little closer at the experience of other countries. Where is there democratic socialism that has existed for any length of time where the people are still free, and where they still have freedom of speech, freedom of worship and freedom to strike for better conditions? It is time that Australians realised that the thing to fight for is the freedom to fight. 
I definitely approve of some strikes. Australians have over the past 3 years taken more interest in politics than ever before. It is certainly an ill wind that does not blow some good. I believe that the majority of people are willing to support this Budget which provides an incentive to free enterprise and an incentive for businessmen to once again expand their production and so create more employment. Profit is not a dirty word; profit is necessary for expansion. Unless we make it possible for the businessman to expand unemployment will increase. 
Perhaps the best example I can give is to refer to what happened last month when I was in Sydney talking to union delegates at a certain factory with international ties. After speaking to the delegates, who were very proud of their fight for over-award wages, I talked to the manager. He assured me that the Australian branch of the company was by far the most COStlY to run, that the company was gradually phasing the branch out and that the company would, upon the branch's closure, import goods. It was thus no longer an economic proposition to produce the goods in Australia. This is just one of the companies that have closed their Australian doors to the workers because it is no longer viable to continue their functions here. 
As I have said, profit is not a dirty word; it is necessary for full employment. I hope this Budget will give the necessary incentive. I believe that the moderate and responsible members of the trade unions movement recognise this fact. They realise that the company must be viable or they will lose their jobs. They also realise that the right of a union to strike is the prerogative of a free trade union movement in a democracy, not that of a socialist country. They also realise that they must fight for the right to fight for so long as that fight is within the law, respectful of the basic rights of others. 
This brings me perhaps to the greatest threat, the greatest worry that Australia faces todaythe threat of violent demonstrations. For again within a democracy citizens are entitled to demonstrate to show their disapproval of any government action or person. This is a very precious right; a right which, when abused, can end in bloodshed. We are indeed a lucky country. We are one of the few countries that have not experienced a civil war. I pray that we can keep that reputation. Demonstrations like the one we saw last Monday against the elected Prime Minister of the country where, according to the newspapers there were 1000 demonstrators- the nucleus from outside the University- where violence of the type reported occurred; where a brick was thrown through the glass doors causing flying glass to hit the face of Sergeant Barry Carpenter; where  Mr Fraser  's Assistant Press Secretary was kicked; where  Mr Fraser  was spat upon and his car kicked and thumped yet no arrests were made, are no longer the prerogative of any person living in a democracy. This type of demonstration no longer respects the basic rights of others. It is no longer within the law. Yet I repeat that no arrests were made. Was this because our society has become addicted to violent demonstrations? Was it because since 1 1 November last year we have witnessed the abuse of the right of demonstration so often against our Governor-General? Was it because we have heard the Leader of the Opposition repeat so often in his efforts to whip up these demonstrations 'Keep up your anger '. 
-Thank you,  Mr President. Mr Whitlam's  continued silence since the demonstration last Monday speaks more clearly than any words can do. As I have said earlier, this great threat to the Australian way of life is perhaps more clearly expressed by these violent demonstrations than by anything else. In the last couple of days we have come very close to the horrors that have happened in other countries. When a crowd kicks, thumps and spits on the car of our Prime Minister or Governor-General, very little more is required before the car is overturned and burned. When bricks are used who knows where they will land. They could just as easily hit and kill as break a glass door or the window of a car. If that happened here we all would be terribly sorry. We all would be terribly ashamed. It would be to the eternal shame of this Parliament that we allowed it to happen. But perhaps the most culpable person would be the person who ordered ' Keep your anger up '. 
I was talking recently to a friend from Uruguay who was horrified that we have these types of demonstrations in Australia. According to him this was exactly what happened when the Army takeover occurred in his country. Left wing violent demonstrations carried out by a minority group increased in violence but not in number until they became so violent that the Army was brought it. The Army has now taken over that country. He said that the people have been promised multi-party elections for some years now, but in point of fact they are not foreseeable in the future. For him, perhaps, the extreme right wing is possibly better than the radical left wing. It just should never have happened. They have lost their democracy through lethargy. In today's Melbourne  Age  Mr Whitlam  refers to Australia as one of the richest and most fortunate countries in the world. I agree with him. We are one of the most fortunate countries and if through this Budget we can bring back our position on the OECD ladder- 
Debate interrupted. 
-Last night, before the debate was interrupted, I was drawing my remarks to a close. In view of the benign nature of the Senate at the moment I hesitate to spoil the atmosphere. But for a continuation of the message I was hoping to get across, I am afraid I must continue. I was speaking about the path Australia was following with regard to violent demonstrations. I had pointed out that only in a free democracy were demonstrations considered a right of the people; only in a free democracy were trade union strikes considered a right. Honourable senators opposite appeared to be unhappy about many of the things I was saying. If that is so, let those honourable senators approach their Leader in the other place and prevail upon him to call off his supporters and allow our Governor-General to go about his duties in peace. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitiam)  was quoted in the  Age  as saying that Australia is indeed a most lucky country, a very fortunate country, the most fortunate country on earth. I agree with that statement. Australia is one of the most fortunate countries. If our Government, through this Budget, can bring our country back to the position it held in the ladder of countries in the Organisation of Economic Corporation and Development prior to 1972, that is, the country with the fifth lowest inflation rate out of the 24 listed, instead of the 16th lowest, which it was when this Government took office, we can be justly proud. I congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on the magnificent Budget he has introduced into this Parliament. 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Can he indicate how much responsibility State governments should bear in the area of unemployment? At present it would appear that the Tasmanian State Government has completely withdrawn from this area of responsibility. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry inform the Senate when the assistance for the apple and pear industry for this season will be announced as growers for some time have been preparing for this year's crop? 
-Has the Minister for Industry and Commerce seen the statement in the Tasmanian Press that Coats Patons (Australia) Ltd has had to retrench another 60 textile employees, partially as a result of the cancellation of large orders for cheap wool by G. J. Coles and Co. Ltd, as Coats Patons no longer is able to be competitive with overseas countries? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the letter circulated by the Victorian Aboriginal Legal Service describing the Government 's policy on Aboriginal grants as shortsighted economy measures. Can the Minister assure the Aboriginal Legal Service that the Government has no economic policy in this regard but is waiting on the Hay report to enable the necessary financial support to reach the Aboriginal people? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to the statement in the media that uniformed police now have the right to enter university grounds without the permission of the vice-chancellor? Can the Minister inform the chamber whether this long overdue right extends to all Australian universities or only to the 2 universities mentioned? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to the statement by the Minister for Welfare in Tasmania that the Federal Government has avoided all its responsibilities in respect of the women 's shelter in that State? Is this not a distortion of the facts, as the Government already has allocated $2.5m to the State for community health services and women's shelters come within that category? 
I rise to support the Bills before the Senate. Their purpose is to amend the national health legislation. This legislation provides a true national health cover. From 1 October this year, for the first time, the Australian community will be covered for every health care, every health need and every choice of health insurance. The cost of health care for those who cannot afford to pay, such as those on low incomes, the pensioner carrying a pensioner card and the repatriation recipients who have always had free health cover, will be met. All of these people will be automatically covered for health care. The needy of the community will be looked after in line with this Government's policy. However, those who have in the past paid for Medibank and, indeed, paid heavily through their taxes- I remind honourable senators opposite that the figure is $ 1,400m- will still be paying for Medibank, but they will know that their health care is not free. It was nice to hear  Senator Georges  admit this tonight. It is the first time I have heard any Labor senator admit that we have not had free health care. However, people will know whether these prices rise out of all proportion. They will know when this is happening and they will have some say about the matter. There was certainly no accounting to the people for the previous Government's expenses. 
I assure honourable senators that people really thought they had free health care. Many is the time I have been asked: 'How can we pay after we have had free health care?' When I have replied that people had already been paying for Medibank through taxes and how much they had been paying it was the first time that these people were aware that they had indeed paid and paid heavily. As has already been mentionedbecause I consider this point of vital importance, I bring it up again- there has been a lot of criticism of our Government and the fact that it is supposed to have dismantled Medibank.  Senator Walsh  and  Senator Georges  have repeated this criticism. In fact, I think every honourable senator opposite who has spoken in the debate has done so. Medibank has not been dismantled. From 1 October the service will be identical to the service provided this year. The only addition we have made to Medibank is that of choice. It has been dismantled. If anyone wants to stay in Medibank the service will be identical to what we have experienced in the last 12 months. The fact that the Opposition does not approve of choice perhaps explains why it is saying that the Government is dismantling Medibank. It says that because we are giving the people a choice we are dismantling Medibank. Is that the only reason Opposition senators can cook up? 

 -Perhaps Senator Brown can say we are dismantling Medibank because our funding system is different. That does not mean that Medibank is being dismantled. The funding may be different but the service is identical. As I have said, the people now have a choice. There is no way that the necessity for this choice can be denied. Many members of the Opposition said that the Government should bear full responsibility for health cover, that people should have no choice at all and that all hospitals should be government owned. This is not how the Australian people see the position. Approximately 70 per cent of people are still insured with private health funds. Seventy per cent have said they want that choice. They want to pay that little bit extra to have the doctor of their choice attend them in hospital.  Senator Walsh  in his hate of the medical profession seems to have twisted this fact. According to him it is not a question of people wanting to have the doctor of their choice attend them in hospital but the doctor wanting to take the patients into the hospital of his choice. All I say to  Senator Walsh  is that such hate only does a lot of harm to his character. I would try to overcome it if I were he. 
Another criticism of Opposition senators is that this legislation will create a second-class health system; yet in the same breath they say that the critically ill patient is best treated in the big public hospitals. They cannot have it both ways. Either the large public hospitals are inferior, which I certainly do not believe although  Senator Georges  has just said 'the devil take the public hospitals', or the public hospitals are so good that they best treat the critically ill patient. If that is so the levy payers will certainly get the best care. The other criticisms by the Opposition are equally false and deliberately misleading. Opposition members have tried to confuse and frighten the Australian people- and I must admit they have partially succeeded. We have seen statements by supposedly responsible leaders such as this: 'People would be forced to pay $ 1 ,000 a year for health insurance '. 
-This was said on 27 May this year by the Minister for Health in Tasmania. He said people would pay $1,000 a year for health insurance. Similar statements have been made by other Labor members and Labor leaders. These statements are completely irresponsible and when they come from a supposedly reliable source I would say they are criminal. This type of party politics has caused members of our society immeasurable worry.  Senator Grimes  has said that levy payers, through their taxes, will be subsidising private insurers because of the Government subsidy for intermediate beds. Again he was indulging in falsehoods. Perhaps I should say that he was deliberately trying to confuse. I have more regard for his mental prowess than to believe he just does not know. 
I withdraw that remark and say that he gave incorrect information. Perhaps that will suit  Senator Georges  better. I would like  Senator Georges  and  Senator Walsh  to listen to a few figures. The fact remains that those who join private health funds will pay 70 per cent of their total health cover. Those who pay the levy and choose to join the hospital funds will pay 40 per cent of their total health cover. Those who pay the levy only will pay only 1 8 per cent of their total health cover. Therefore  Senator Georges  really cannot claim that levy payers will subsidise the private insurers in any way whatsoever. We simply find that as usual- and justly so- the wealthier members of the community will pay more in their taxes than the levy payers of the community and therefore will subsidise the levy payers, as is usual, through the revenue. 
I am not saying that they should not but we certainly will not see any of the levy payers subsidising the private insurers. The statement by  Senator Grimes  was incorrect and I stress that fact to honourable senators. The reason for the levy, as I have said, is that it will allow people to know whether health care escalates unreasonably, and they will be able to have some say. Up to date there has been no possible way in which they could assess it. 
I want to refer now to the intermediate bed issue. The Government is aware that 70 per cent of the people wish to insure with a private fund. This covers many pensioners, as  Senator Messner  has said, who, for whatever reason, declare their priorities in health care. The Government has decided to pay a subsidy to private health funds. This will enable people on low and medium incomes to insure, so that they can take the doctor of their choice into the intermediate wards of public hospitals. We are told by the Opposition that people should not be allowed to do this. We are told that all people should do as they are told, that they should all have a public hospital doctor and all go where they are sent. 
As I have said, people do not agree with that idea, and this Government is providing them with a choice. 
-The family contribution for this accommodation is $2.60 a week and the single rate is $ 1 .30 a week. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bonner)-  Order! 
I do not mind  Senator Georges  interrupting; he makes very amusing interjections, although none of them is correct. I am sure that this particular cover will prove to be very popular insurance. As I have said previously, members of the Opposition have been very critical, and certainly so of the changes this Government has wrought. However, if honourable senators remember, when this Bill was first introduced in May it was stressed by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  that during the winter recess it would be considered in detail and that consultations would take place with all interested parties- the funds, the unions and the hospitals. Well, the Opposition cannot really grizzle if this Government did consult and did make alterations after those consultations, particularly those with the unions. It cannot have it both ways. It said that the Government should consult with the unions, yet when it does so and when it accepts some of their advice Opposition members raise their hands in horror and say that the Government has changed its mind again. The Minister did stress the point that he would hold consultations during the winter recess and that possibly alterations would be made. Alterations have been made. The Government has agreed to enter the private field and go into strict competition with the private funds. We believe that this free competition will keep fund contributions to a minimum. 
I certainly was amused to hear Labor leaders, including  Mr Hawke,  screaming about the huge reserves that the private funds have kept over the years. In the very next breath they abuse them and accuse them of using their reserves to keep down their contributions. The Opposition had better make up its mind about what it wants the funds to do with those reserves. What do members of the Opposition want them to do? Do they want them to hang on to them or do they want them in order to keep contributions down? 
-Senator Georges would like the contribution funds to make a donation straight into the Labor Party funds. I now would like to refer to the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2). This relates to the payment of medical benefits for pathology services and to the hospital agreements between the Commonwealth and the States. Regarding payments for pathology services, I would like to point out to  Senator Grimes,  although he is not in the chamber at the moment, that the Australian Medical Association also brought the anomalies of the previous Government's legislation to the notice of the Minister for Health. Opposition senators have been very critical of rackets conducted by doctors yet it was their Government which permitted those rackets. I could say that their Government virtually insisted that the pathologists claim payment for each and every service rendered even when processed all at the one time as part of the packet process to which  Senator Grimes  referred. The AMA pointed out the unnecessary payments being made and has assisted the Government in amending the Bill in this regard. The Government has achieved its aim by allowing the full fee to be paid to specialist pathologists of the top 3 items, and the remainder of the items to return 20 per cent of the fee otherwise allocated. Further, unless the pathologist is a recognised specialist in his field, 75 per cent of the full fee of the top 3 items would be paid, and 20 per cent of any additional items. This will effectively close the loopholes left by the previous Government. 

 Senator Walsh and  Senator Georges  either just do not understand- if they do not understand I feel sorry for them- or again they are deliberately trying to confuse. No one is forcing anyone out of Medibank. If we did not have a ceiling on the levy I could understand  Senator Georges  saying that we are forcing people out, because it would be cheaper for them to join a private fund. Where there is a ceiling and it is not cheaper to join a private fund anyone, no matter what his income, can stay in Medibank and effectively pay that ceiling. How he can say that anyone is being forced out of Medibank is quite beyond me. I presume only that he is doing it deliberately to try to confuse the public.  Senator Walsh  was pleading with us to explain to him our levy because he does not understand it. The difference between the levy that we brought down and the levy that the Labor Party attempted to bring down is that we allow a combined income, and the Labor Party has never allowed a combined income. The Labor Party decided that both husband and wife who work hard and save their money for their family and their home should both pay the levy. We do not believe that each should pay the levy. We believe that there should be a combined income and that the combined income should have a ceiling of $300 for a family. This is the difference. I hope  Senator Walsh  is listening in his room. If he did not understand it before, perhaps he will now. 
Statements of this type by the irresponsible Opposition have caused deliberate confusion. I ask the people not to heed these incorrect statements but to make their choice. If they want Medibank, as we had it in the past 12 months; if they want 85 per cent of the doctors scheduled fee at the surgery and public hospital care with a public hospital doctor they do not have to do anything, and the levy will be taken out of their income. The levy will not be taken out of the income of a person on a low salary, a pensioner or a person who receives a repatriation benefit. They will not pay the levy. If that is the sort of cover that people want they do not do anything, and the levy will be taken out automatically. If they want private cover they should shop around to see whether Medibank Private or any of the private funds has a table to suit them. They should shop around to see which has the lowest contribution rates. They should join that fund. There is a choice for the Australian community for the first time in the last 12 months. I commend these options to the people. I commend the Bills to the chamber. 
-I would like to correct a few of the things that  Senator Grimes  said. To begin with, people do not believe that their private insurance will insure them against 100 per cent of the cost to the country of their health care. They all well know that there is a Government subsidy of $16 a day to the private hospitals for their beds. They are quite well aware of this fact. They also know, because they have been told and told repeatedly, that those people who are insured in private health care funds pay 70 per cent of their total health care. Those who pay the levy and just the hospital side of the private funds fees will pay 40 per cent. Those who pay the levy alone pay roughly 18 per cent of the cost of their total health care. How can  Senator Grimes  say that the levy payers are subsidising those who are privately insured when I have given him those figures showing the percentage of their full health care that they are paying? It is impossible for him to say that through their taxes they are paying a subsidy to the private funds. This is completely false. Perhaps now the honourable senator might understand the situation. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for 
Transport. Is it a fact that mainland fruit growers, being fearful of the competition from the high quality Tasmanian apples and pears arising from the removal of the freight disadvantage which Tasmania previously has suffered, are endeavouring either to have the Tasmanian fruit exempted from the freight equalisation scheme or to have the Minister modify the schedule. Can the Minister reassure Tasmanian growers that mainland pressures will not jeopardise this magnificent scheme which means so much to Tasmanian industries? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to the fact that the demonstration by students from the University of Western Australia was led by a member of the Communist Party who is not a student at that university but who came to demonstrate and whip up emotions, and finally succeeded in leading the students on an unauthorised march through the city? Can the Minister explain to the chamber the reasons put forward by the students for these demonstrations and what justification, if any, lies behind them? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security in her capacity as Minister assisting the Prime Minister in child care matters. Can the Minister inform the chamber when the Australian Pre-School Association will be informed as to the Government's proposed assistance for 1977? The position is becoming urgent as many pre-schools have already advertised for next year's staff and are now wishing to engage the successful applicants. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport inform the chamber whether, following the investigation of the Tasmanian railway system, the report which is due for completion this month will be tabled prior to the Government's consideration? 
-My question to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs follows a previous question about local government rates. Following the recent increases in rates in Tasmania, has the Minister any facts relating to increases in local government rates in Tasmania during the 1970s? 
-In supporting the Social Services Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1976 I point out that the Department of Social Security was originally designed to protect people against insecurity and economic hardship and for those in greatest need. This Government believes that benefits should be provided to overcome this insecurity but in such a way that while a person's independence is retained incentives for self-help should be maintained to the full. There are several amendments in this Bill aimed to accomplish just this. As  Senator Baume  has said, it is appropriate that the party which first introduced child endowment to the Commonwealth constitutes the government that introduces major increases and alterations to that benefit. 

 Senator Grimes said earlier today that the Government showed little concern for the people in need. All I can say to that is that the proof of the pudding is in the eating. Let us have a look at our record. As I have said, we were the first government to introduce child endowment and to help the poor families with children and again we are the first government to introduce major reforms aimed primarily to benefit the lower income families. However, 1 will say more about that later. 
-Sir Robert Menzies introduced the reform in the Commonwealth,  Senator. 
-That is right; Jack Lang introduced it in New South Wales. But  Sir Robert  Menzies introduced it to the Commonwealth of Australia- certainly not a Labor government. Not only were we the first government to introduce that benefit but also under the Deakin coalition Government in 1909 and earlier in New South Wales and Victoria- at the time they were non-Labor States- the age pension was introduced to this country. 
-No, definitely not. The age pension was not introduced by any Labor government in any State whatsoever. It was introduced by a non-Labor coalition government. At the time we were the third country in the world to introduce an entirely governmentsubsidised age pension. 
It may not have been very much but it was the beginning. It certainly was not a Labor Party that introduced it in any State or the Commonwealth of this country. Again we are the first government to introduce major changes and major improvements by tying pensions to the consumer price index to keep pensions in line with inflation. As I have said, it is the first time in Australia's history that pensions will be tied to the consumer price index. Each 6 months we will see rises automatically in line with the cost of living, thus stopping once and for all pensions falling behind through inflation and protecting people against economichardship. We will have done with the political wrangles that usually accompany these increases. 
The new pension increases have not been actually stated, so I will state a few. They will be paid from 1 1 November. The standard rate pension for aged persons, invalids, widows and supporting mothers will rise to $43.50 a week and the married rate will rise to $72.50. Should the consumer price index fall, pensions will remain stationary until there is a further rise in the index. These pensioners will not be disadvantaged in any way. Along with these increases there have been increases in unemployment and sickness benefits. The single rate has been increased by $2.25 a week to $43.50. The married rate, with a dependent spouse, will be increased by $4 a week to $72.50 a week. These increases will come into effect on 1 November. Of course increases will also be made in the handicapped children's allowance which  Senator Grimes  grudgingly agrees is rather a good part of the legislation. 
As  Senator Baume  has said, an equally important amendment to the Act provides that the existing means test based on both assets and income will now be abolished and the sole method of testing for pensions from November will be the person's income. This is a long overdue benefit that will be greatly appreciated despite  Senator Grimes'  criticism. The Labor Party has never agreed with incentives; it does not believe that people should be encouraged to help themselves. This amendment will act as an incentive, as I have said, for people to save for added comforts in their old age. Those people will not be penalised by having assets as they have been in the past when just having assets alone sometimes debarred people from any assistance by way of pension. 
Another amendment in this Bill relates to family allowances. I have spoken on this matter before in the chamber. I think this changed allowance is rather wonderful for the Australian woman. It is the first step in government recognition of the part that the mother plays in the home. While the payment also goes to the working mother, at least it is a recognition that the mother needs some money of her own to spend on the priorities as she sees them and not only as the husband dictates as has often happened in many families in the past. The new system virtually transfers money from rebates to the husband to the mother's pocket. This will be of greatest benefit to low income earners who have never paid enough tax to be able to take full advantage of all the child rebates. Now the mother in that family gets the full advantage. Even though this new system has been functioning for only a few months the mothers and social welfare workers I have spoken to believe that this is the biggest improvement in the social welfare system that Australia has seen. 
If the honourable senator does not believe this she cannot have spoken to any of the s&lt; cial welfare workers. 
I bet you have not. Social welfare workers believe that this is the best thing that has ever happened to the Australian community. This replacement of the tax allowance for children with increases in child endowment was a high priority suggested by Professor Henderson in his report following the inquiry into poverty. In the past no endowment was paid once a student reached 2 1 years. The limit has now been increased to 25 yearsanother improvement for parents of full-time students. 
-And nobody does. I sincerely hope that there are a lot of wage earners and very poor students from very poor families who get the living allowance because if they are earning less than $1,600 a year they are entitled to the allowance. Another amendment to the Social Services Act concerns that part of the Act which in the past has excluded certain children with their alien fathers from eligibility for this child endowment. This provision will be repealed. The people who will benefit most from this system are the single parents, those sole parent families- widows and supporting mothers- many of whom have not been able to take advantage of the tax rebates. They will benefit greatly from the family allowances. The Government's decision to increase the sole parent rebate from $200 to $350 per annum will also benefit single parents with high incomes. 
Nevertheless the Opposition does not believe that this is a good Bill, although it will benefit those sole parent families, and that is something I find very hard to understand. In the last 5 years there have been large increases in assistance to poor people who were eligible for benefits and pensions but the allowances for the children belonging to those people have been increased by only half as much. These people have been greatly disadvantaged. As  Senator Melzer  said, these people still have to buy shoes, clothe, feed and shelter their children, and I agree with her, but her government increased this allowance by only half the amount by which it increased other pensions. Why did not the Labor Government do something about that? The Opposition seems to be in favour of only the handicapped children's allowance increase. It is something which I find very hard to understand. I hope  Senator McLaren  will be able to make a little clearer why that is the only provision which the Opposition supports because  Senator Grimes  and  Senator Melzer  certainly have not done so.  Senator Grimes  could not quite explain it and  Senator Melzer  did not even mention it. She skirted around that one very successfully. 
-That is quite right,  Senator Baume. Senator Melzer  stuck mainly to unemployment, women's shelters and women's groups. 
Senators WALTERS- I was just about to explain, if  Senator McLaren  will give me a chance.  Senator Melzer  concentrated on unemployment as though this Government had no concern for the unemployed. It was not our Government which brought unemployment to this country, it was the Labor Government, and we have said that it will take 3 years at least to restore full employment and to reduce inflation. That is how long it will take to get this country out of the mess the Labor Government got it into. At this stage we are working on the long term and every other country and everybody, except the Labor Opposition, admits that if we bring inflation down first we will restore employment. We could give the band-aid treatment as the Labor Government did and hand over money flat out, employ people and have inflation going on but there would be no long term profit in it. So we are looking to the long term good of the country. 

 Senator Melzer also referred to women's shelters in the various States being left alone by our Government. She knows very well that there have been large grants to the States. I do not know whether  Senator Melzer  has asked the organisers of the shelters in her State. I certainly have in mine and the organisers of the shelters in Hobart and Launceston are very happy with the way things have worked out. The money that we have given our State Labor Government has been handed over to the shelters, except to the women's centre in Hobart. That is the sort of thing  Senator Melzer  is talking about. However, I am afraid that I am in full agreement with the Labor Government for not handing over to that body any of the grant. It is the sort of organisation which has written on its walls, 'Lesbianism is beautiful', and 'The family is woman's bondage'. We do not agree with grants being given to this type of organisation and I applaud very much our Labor Government for not handing over any of the grant. No doubt some of the organisations in Victoria also have not been handed any of the grant for that reason and I agree with the Premier of Victoria that they are not the sorts of organisations that we should be supporting. I support the Bill and give the Government my full support. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Will the Minister for Health emphasise to the Tasmanian Minister for Health,  Mr Lowe,  his concern about the restriction by that State Labor Government of the use of intermediate beds at the Royal Hobart Hospital by pensioners, low wage earners and Medibank levy payers who are being discriminated against by not being entitled to use those intermediate beds and so have the doctor of their choice, even if they have insured with a private fund for this low hospital benefit? Tasmania is the only State that has refused pensioners use of these beds, even though the Federal Government has subsidised the Medibank Plus table. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Telecommunications give an assurance that if any alteration to the broadcasting control system is to be considered by him following the Green report, protection of children through the design of children's programs, viewing times and quality will be given top priority? 
I have been listening to the debate this afternoon and I have been amazed at the comments of honourable senators opposite. Anybody would think this Government had brought unemployment to this country. A few weeks ago  Mr Neilson  brought down a Budget which he claimed was the best Budget Tasmania had ever seen. Of course this followed immediately his abuse of the Federal Government for its federalism policy. He claimed that the federalism policy would lead to double taxation, etc.- a truly terrifying wail. However he proceeded to prove that he had not only enough money to bring down his supposedly wonderful Budget but also $4m over, plus $17m from loans that he felt he did not need to use. At the time of the Tasmanian Budget the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Bingham,  pointed out that all this extra money should be used to try to relieve unemployment in Tasmania. He has reiterated this over and over again. Finally  Mr Neilson,  realising that the elections were rapidly approaching, decided to take  Mr Bingham's  advice and spend some of this money on unemployment relief. 
So  Mr Neilson  has come up with something. We heard from  Senator Rae  just what that something is. It is a rehash of all other unemployment relief schemes. An example is a restructure of the Regional Employment Development scheme that the previous Labor Government in this place found unsatisfactory. In fact, as  Senator Rae  pointed out,  Mr Neilson  's lack of incentive proved not only his incapacity but also his lack of sympathy with the needy. If any further proof of this is necessary,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I draw your attention to  Mr Neilson  's new plan for intermediate beds at the Royal Hobart Hospital. In Tasmania legislation has just been passed allowing intermediate beds at the hospital in Hobart, but the eligibility test for these beds is very restrictive. I would like to read the wording of that eligibility. Only those patients who are non-Medibank levy payers and carry both hospital and medical private insurance will be eligible for admission as intermediate patients. Worker's compensation, motor accident liability and compensation patients will not be eligible for intermediate beds. 
. Every  Senator shall  confine himself to the one subject in respect to which the Motion has been made. 

 Senator Walters is raising the matter of health and Hobart hospitals. I submit that this is not the subject matter of the motion. The matter of urgency is as follows: 
That the Neilson plan form the basis for a Commonwealth initiative with all the States to reduce unemployment. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I was listening to  Senator Walters.  She was referring to matters relating to a hospital and some statements in relation to the Tasmanian situation. I was aware that these matters were a little different from the actual wording of the matter of urgency, but it was my view that they were related to it. I draw  Senator Walter's  attention to the wording of standing order 64 and to the wording of the urgency motion. I ask her to keep within the bounds of the urgency motion and to continue her remarks. 
I am not surprised that  Senator O'Byrne  raised the point of order, because what I am saying is something that I am sure the Opposition would not want put across the air today. If honourable senators opposite are proud of this, let me go ahead. I would certainly challenge them to allow me to express myself on this part of the Budget. 
It is part of the Budget. It is part of the decisions of the Tasmanian Labor Government. Seeing that honourable senators opposite are happy about it, I will go ahead. Seeing that it is not their desire to stop this going across the air today, I will continue. I thank  Senator O'Byrne  for his confidence. We will see how he feels by the time the people hear this one. 
I am in order under the Standing Orders, according to the Acting Deputy President. Because of the interruption, I would like to read the eligibility provision in legislation passed last week in Tasmania. This applies to the economy of our country and to the economy of Tasmania in particular because Tasmania is the only State in which these restrictions apply. I would like to repeat the eligibility test for intermediate beds. Only those patients who are nonMedibank levy payers - 
That the Neilson plan form the basis for a Commonwealth initiative with all the States to reduce unemployment. 
I ask you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  whether it is possible for  Senator Walters  to tie up with the motion her diversion from the debate before the Chair to reference to Hobart hospitals. It is ridiculous. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I would like to speak to the point of order. I listened to other honourable senators on both sides. They did not stick entirely to the subject of unemployment. They ranged over the whole of the Budget of Tasmania. I am not deviating from that. I too am sticking to the Budget of that State. In no address this afternoon did any honourable senator stick entirely to unemployment. The economy was discussed by  Senator Grimes  a few moments ago.  His  remarks ranged over all facets of the economy in this country. He did not stick to the subject of unemployment in any way at all. I beg your consideration of that,  Mr Acting Deputy President. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! Discussion of a plan such as that mentioned in the urgency motion may well provide the opportunity for introducing related matters. I would ask  Senator Walters,  if she is introducing related matters such as the ones that have been raised, to link them as closely as possible to the terms of the urgency motion. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President. 
Yes, Opposition senators have succeeded in doing that; I have got 6 minutes of my time left. 
I thank  Senator O'Byrne.  However, the crux of my remarks is that pensioners, low wage earners and Medibank levy payers are not included amongst those eligible to use intermediate ward beds; they are denied access to them. In fact, any pensioner, Medibank levy payer or low wage earner who in fact insures on that low hospital table will not be allowed to use those facilities in the State of Tasmania. The Federal Government has subsidised very heavily the Medibank Plus table to allow that small group of people to obtain their private medical insurance at the lowest possible cost. As I have said, Tasmania is the only State which has discriminated against pensioners in that way, and the State Government should be ashamed of its restrictive policies. 
I would like to cite just a couple of examples of how it affects people. If an insured pensioner who has been attending his or her own specialist for a heart complaint suddenly has an attack, for example- either a major or a minor attack- and if that person is insured under the Medibank Plus table, that low hospital table, the Tasmanian Government will not allow that person to use an intermediate bed and so have the doctor of his or her choice. Such a person would not be able to see his or her specialist. The State Government will permit only the person who can afford to insure privately, for both medical and hospital benefits, to use an intermediate bed. The pensioners and those low wage earners would be admitted to public beds and treated by the doctor on duty at the time, even though they have taken out insurance on the Medibank Plus table. 
After speaking on this subject in Hobart recently I received a telephone call from a single mother who asked me whether she would be eligible to receive intermediate ward care. She is a single mother on a pension. She has a mentally retarded child who is subject to convulsions. She said that she often has to take her child down to the hospital at any time during the day or night. She has her own paediatrician, the child's own doctor. She wanted to know whether she would be eligible, having taken out this insurance. I had to inform her that under the policies of the Tasmanian Government she is not permitted to use those intermediate ward beds; she must go into the public section of the hospital and use the services of the doctor who is on duty at the time. This is a matter at which the Neilson Government must have another look. 
I first became aware of this situation some 3 weeks ago when  Mr Hunt  was visiting our State. I informed  Mr Hunt  that  Mr Lowe  had put forward these eligibility criteria and had refused to budge from his position.  Mr Hunt  sent him a telegram begging him to change his ideas and to allow these people to use intermediate ward beds because, as I said, our Government has subsidised those beds in a very large measure to entitle such people to use them at the lowest possible cost. But  Mr Lowe  refused to accept the suggestion and he has stuck by the eligibility criteria. 
By talking about these things I am certainly not taking anything away from the seriousness of unemployment, for it is the greatest scourge we have in this country. However, as I said earlier, the present Government did not introduce it into this country but we are doing our level best to decrease it. 
All right,  Senator Primmer.  The method we are using to decrease the unemployment rate is to attack inflation. That is the method being used in all of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries, and that is how it is best done. We restrict government expenditure and we reduce inflation. In that way we will increase employment. We are proving that these objectives are coming to fruition. Inflation is being reduced. I am perfectly confident that in 12 months ' time we will see a great reduction in unemployment in this country. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. I refer him to my previous question in this place regarding the refusal of a student at the Australian National University to pay his student union fees. The student strongly protested at the financial support given to the Abortion Law Reform Society by the Student Union and so refused to pay his dues but offered to pay the equivalent to a charitable organisation of his choice. He has now received a letter from the Assistant Registrar threatening to cancel the student's enrolment. I should like to read a portion of the letter. It reads:  if payment is not received promptly, your 1976 examination results will be withheld and the University will not accept a re-enrolment application from you. 
I ask the Minister whether there is something he can do to assist the student in his fight. 
-Can the Minister for Social Security inform the chamber whether the Federal Government has made $ 1.25m available this financial year for the building of the first stages of the Douglas Park Rehabilitation Centre in Hobart. If so, as the State Government has set aside only $0.6m- less than half its share- would it be accurate to assume that the State is conducting a go-slow program on this project? 
-That letter points out how over the years those office bearers have been very democratically elected. I am quite sure that this will prove to honourable senators opposite, if they care to read it, that the union has had very democratic elections. 
Very definitely. It will do  Senator Ryan's  heart good to learn a bit. Read it in  Hansard.  Learn a little about what you have been saying. The legislation is very democratic legislation. Although members of the Opposition claim that it is not democratic, it is the way they are elected. It is the way their system works. I am surprised to hear them say that it is not democratic legislation. I have great pleasure in supporting the Bill because I believe that it, along with our system of secret postal voting, will do great things for the unions of this country. 
It gives me great pleasure to rise to support this Bill. There has been considerable debate and discussion for some time on the subject of elections of union officials, particularly following the legislation brought in by the  Hon.  Clyde Cameronthe past Minister for Labour- in 1973. Under that legislation unions were given 3 years to alter their rules to fall into line, if necessary. That 3 years is nearly up. As a matter of fact, the date on which it will be up is 1 3 November this year. The effect of that 1973 legislation was to require rank and file voting by all members of the union to enable them to vote directly for the office bearers of the organisations. I realise that at first glance this sounds very democratic and ideal, but if one looks at it more intensely one will find that it is a very different thing in practice. All unions are different. All unions have different problems. A hard and fast rule will not bring about justice to everyone. The amendments that we are proposing will give a choice- a choice of the way by which unionists can elect their office bearers. These choices are: The full-time office bearers may be elected by either a direct vote of the rank and file members of the union or, alternatively, by a one-tier collegiate electoral system. 
The collegiate system has been described by many honourable senators on both sides of the chamber but I should like to make it a little clearer. The collegiate system is a system whereby the separate branches vote for members of a collegiate or council. This voting is carried out by the rank and file members of the union. Following that election, the collegiate or council then vote for the office bearers. 
Just a moment, senator. I will deal with that 1 5 per cent later. The collegiate system is very similar to our parliamentary system whereby the people of Australia vote for members of parliament and then the members of the Liberal and National Country Party vote for their Prime Minister and a similar practice is adopted by the Labor Party. The Australian people vote for the Labor Party members and then the members of caucus vote for their leader and for their shadow Cabinet. 
It is a very similar democratic system. To hear honourable senators opposite say that it is undemocratic and that it is absolutely against all they stand for really amazes me because if that is true they do not agree that they themselves have a democratic system of election. However, this is a one-tier system and the system that is the alternative to the rank and file voting. The necessity for the inclusion of the collegiate system of voting is for the protection of the smaller States. If a substantial number of members reside in one particular State then, as honourable senators will realise, the smaller States would not end up with any representation on the executive. I should like to relate to the Senate another important example of the necessity for the inclusion of the collegiate system of voting. Take a large Australia-wide union which, under the previous legislation, elected its office bearers by rank and file voting. What happens? The names of the candidates are circulated. Supposing there is a candidate in New South Wales and an opposing candidate in Victoria, what do the members of the union in Tasmania, Darwin and Perth know about either candidate? 
Just a moment, senator, and I will try to explain why I think this is good legislation. What do members of that union in Perth, Darwin, Tasmania and Brisbane know about the 2 candidates standing in Victoria and New South Wales? What do those rank and file members know about those 2 candidates? They know absolutely nothing about them unless the candidates have a lot of money behind them- a tremendous amount of financial backing would be needed- that will enable them to do all the necessary postal work attached to a full-scale Australia-wide campaign and unless they have an organisation in each State campaigning hard for one or the other. This certainly would put paid to any chance of a moderate non-political member of that union standing for any executive post. 
-As far as I can see,  Senator Cavanagh,  the rank and file person in Tasmania- I have done a lot of work on this because I was on the employment and industrial relations committee- has absolutely no idea of what the chaps are like who are standing for election in New South Wales. I am referring to the ordinary rank and file member. Given a vote in the collegiate system, the ordinary rank and file member can vote for someone in whom he has faith and who can then go to the college or council and place a vote that he feels would be for the betterment of Tasmania. We have seen this sort of thing happen in Australia. We have seen it happen in a number of large unions and a very good example is the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. Carmichael and Halfpenny are elected by rank and file voting - 
By the direct system of rank and file voting. Do honourable senators opposite know what percentage of the members of that union voted for Carmichael and Halfpenny? They do know because it has been stated so often. Only 1.8 per cent of the rank and file members - 
-We will see because according to  Mr Carmichael  and  Mr Halfpenny  they are threatening to go under the collegiate system. 
-We will see because they are at present there under the rank and file voting. The members of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union are frustrated by the fact that these man have money behind them, that they have the capacity to organise their election and that they wield such tremendous power through the finances, possibly brought in- I am not saying this is definite- from overseas communist countries. The ordinary rank and file members cannot possibly put up any effective opposition. 
I am talking about the Communist Party,  Senator Brown.  I am quite sure that you do not agree with the ideals of the Communist Party,  Senator Brown.  I am sure the honourable senator is not happy about Carmichael and Halfpenny. Let us see whether under this new system a moderate member of that union can stand against these 2 wealthy, financially backed men and have effective opposition in that union. That describes, as best I can, the one-tier collegiate system. 
In each State the part time office bearers can be elected under a multi-tier system. To ensure that the number of office bearers standing is not out of proportion to the rank and file valid members, which is the amendment about which  Senator Cavanagh  is talking, we have introduced an amendment to overcome the fact that when each State elects its office bearers, and when one of those office bearers is elected  president  or secretary etc., that State loses its effective representation because the  president  must become the  president  of the union as a whole. That State effectively loses its representative. So there is an election to give that State its representative. The amendment is to ensure that the  president  or the secretary or the rest of the executive at the next election who, because they have not a State behind them at that stage, so are not able to be voted for by the rank and file, are permitted to re-stand without the rank and file vote. If they continue to have the confidence of the college behind them and are re-elected, that is fine. If they fail to have the confidence ofthe college, they are out, and a vote is taken, the  president,  secretary and the members of the executive are elected by the college which in turn is elected by the rank and file. 
lt is a just one. It is not a poor one. That is exactly how it works. 
-We have made it 1 5 per cent so that the proportion will not be too large. The proportion will be only 1 5 per cent. This will not entail a take over by the elected collegiate. The time lag for these union rules is 2 years from the date of operation of the amendment. This is necessary because at the moment there are two 3 -tier collegiate systems in some of the unions -in other words, that multi-tier collegiate system. If at the conclusion of the 2 years the necessary alterations have not been made, the Industrial Registrar will have the power to make these alterations but will not have the power to alter substantially the entire method of voting of that union. 
I was amazed when I heard  Senator Button  say that he agreed with political strikes. Last night he said that he agreed with political strikes. It still amazes me to hear members of the Opposition say that. 
-That is right. It still amazes me every time I hear members of the Opposition say that it is all right for the unions to take over the rightful position and the rightful power of the Parliament. Members of the Oppo.sition say it repeatedly. I fear that the rest of Australia does not agree with them, and that is possibly why they are on the Opposition benches at the moment.  Senator Sibraa  said that the Government had not had any consultations with the unions on this matter. This statement was echoed by  Senator Ryan. Senator Sibraa  said that the Government had not had any consultations. Then he told us of the consultations which we did have. He said- he was right- that we had consulted Charlie Oliver, Barry Egan and John Forrester. He cannot have it both ways. I agree that we did consult these people. We consulted not only these 3 people but a number of other unionists. We consulted many more unionists than those three. He cannot have it both ways. He cannot say in one breath that we did not consult, and in the next breath tell us whom we consulted. Frankly, it does not make sense. 

 Senator Ryan claimed that the Government had assisted the executive of the Federated Clerks Union of Australia, which had not been democratically elected, to stay in power. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a letter from the  President  of that union. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-Has the Minister for Social Security seen a report that the proportion of persons receiving the unemployment benefit compared with those registered for employment is the highest on record? Is this record correct? Can the Minister provide further details? What explanation can be given for those figures? 
I ask the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs: What was the amount of money allocated to Tasmania by the Federal Government this year by way of untied grants to local government? How does this compare with amounts of untied grants in previous years? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Will the Minister take action to correct the information printed in the October issue of the publication  Abolition of the Means Test News  under  Senator Coleman's  name? She is reported as stating: 
If you wish to purchase health insurance for intermediate ward hospital treatment, for so-called doctor-of-choice in hospital, the following options are recommended: 
She goes on to advise Medibank levy payers to take out intermediate hospital cover with Medibank Private and assures them that it will cost them only $135 a year for family cover and $67 a year for single cover. This cover is also economical for pensioners, low wage earners and those not paying the Medibank levy. She mentions 3 States- Western Australia, Tasmania and Victoria. I do not blame  Senator Coleman  - 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and follows a question I asked previously regarding a student at the Australian National University who has a conscientious objection to paying fees to the student association. Bearing in mind that the university results are due in 6 days time and that the closing date for re-enrolment is 24 December, I ask the Minister: What progress has been made in the investigations, following the Assistant Registrar's threat to withhold the student's results until the fee is paid? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I preface my question by saying that the proposed new legislation to provide for greatly increased penalties for trafficking in illicit drugs has been widely commended. However, since the announcement on 2 1 November a further question in relation to this vital matter presents itself. It concerns drug detection agencies. Can the Minister give assurances that all possible resources of manpower and equipment will be made available to assist in the prevention of the import of illicit drugs into this country? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications inform the chamber in which States the overnight parcels services are already operating and when the scheme is likely to be extended to the other States? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and it follows several questions I have asked previously in this chamber regarding a student at the Australian National University who for conscientious reasons has refused to pay the student union fees. Can the Minister give any information regarding the progress of his investigations into the matter? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the decision of the Government and Opposition members of the Senate Standing Committee on Mount Lyell Mining Operations that the devaluation decision converts the company's forecast cash position during the period 1977-79 from a calamitous cash deficit of $21m to a position of near balance? As this is so, is it not an obvious flow-on that similar results will be achieved in the rural industries of the order of an additional $ 1 50m in rural income, as stated by the Minister for Primary Industry? 
I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Health a question which follows upon a question I asked previously in this chamber. Bearing in mind the financial assistance given to State hospitals can the Minister give any reason for the Tasmanian Government's decision to prohibit pensioners and levy payers who have privately insured for hospital insurance only from using the intermediate beds at the Royal Hobart Hospital? 
-Just to throw a little truth into this debate I seek permission to have the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Tom  Uren, incorporated in  Hansard.  This speech was made at the wreath laying ceremony and it will prove that  Senator Gietzelt  was not telling the truth when he said that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition had said that it was in commemoration of the Australians who had fallen in the Second World War. 
-I am not accusing  Senator Gietzelt  of anything. He seems to be very sensitive about this and I am beginning to wonder why he is so sensitive. All I asked was that the speech that is certainly in the name of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Tom  Uren, be incorporated in  Hansard,  as I said, just to throw a little truth on the matter. 
Opposition senators- No. 
-Then I shall read the speech, if that is all right. 
-This is a speech by  Mr Tom  Uren,  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, at a wreath laying ceremony. 
Speech by Tom Uren, M.P., Deputy Leader of the Opposition, at a wreath laying ceremony . . . 
I do not know for sure but I should imagine that  Mr Tom  Uren was the one who must have circulated his own speech. It reads: 
Speech by Tom Uren, M.P., Deputy Leader of the Opposition, at a wreath laying ceremony to mark the first anniversary of the Indonesian invasion of the Democratic Republic of East Timor- Tuesday 7 December, 1976. 
Today we are expressing our sorrow for the suffering of the Timorese people. 
This is the anniversary of the unprovoked attack on their nation- the Democratic Republic of East Timor. 
The past year has been one of bitter struggle for the people of East Timor. 
They have had to contend with an unprovoked attack upon their country by a bullying neighbour. The invaders in their attempts at destroying the freedom of this small nation have committed horrifying atrocities against the Timorese people. Over 60 000 people have died in the struggle against the foreign invader. This wreath is an expression of respect for those people. 
For the people of Australia this situation presents a fundamental challenge to our view of the world. 
The Australian Government wants us to forget the Timor situation. They want the Australian people passively to accept that Indonesia's generals have the right to decide on whether their neighbours can be free or not. They want us to believe that for Australia to have 'good relations' with the Indonesian Government we should not criticise their unprovoked and brutal assault on the people of East Timor. 
That is why Telecom Darwin will be prevented from passing on news from East Timor. 
That is why Ministers of the Fretilin Government have been refused permission to visit Australia. 
That is why Australia abstained from the UN resolution condemning the Indonesian invasion. 
That is why the Australian Government has abandoned its publicly stated policy and sends our humanitarian aid through the Indonesian Red Cross. 
That is why military aid to Indonesia continues. 
That is why Timorese refugees from Indonesian aggression have been refused special consideration for migration to Australia. 
These actions are all further evidence of our sell out of East Timor. These actions go beyond recognising so-called realities' to encouraging these 'realities'. 
As Australians what is our role in this situation? 
As Australians one of our roles is to remind the Australian people of the debt we owe the Timorese for their assistance in aiding the preservation of our freedom in the Second World War. This is an appropriate time and place to draw attention to that. 
We have to tell the Australian Government that we reject the continued sell-out of the East Timorese people. 
But most importantly we have to let the Timorese know that in their struggle they have the support of the Australian people. 
That is the end of the speech and there is no mention of its being a commemoration for the Australian soldiers killed in the Second World War. 
I should like to seek clarification from  Senator Georges  on a point. Can he say who recorded the speech that  Mr Uren  finally made at the laying of the wreath? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. As the report of the Bailey task force on coordination in welfare and health will be of great interest to the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare, because,  Mr President,  as a committee we have taken considerable evidence on many of the task force references, can the Minister say when the report will be handed down? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs seen the headlines in the business sector of the media this morning? One headline states: 
Rises all round as share revival continues. 
The article goes on to point out how heartened investors were by the Treasurer's statement setting forth the additional details of the stock valuation tax cuts. 
I rise to support these Bills which carry out the recommendations of the Australian Apple and Pear Growers Association. The recommendations put forward by the apple and pear growers prove once again that they are prepared to support their own industry. They prove, again, the independence of the man on the land. Even though apple and pear growers who export are going through perhaps the most difficult times the industry has experienced, they are prepared to pay their share, in the interests of equity. They have recommended that they share the cost to enable the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation, which is lacking in finance, to have the financial resources necesssary to promote and develop the potentially larger domestic market. The levy, in line with the apple and pear growers' recommendation, is to be based on the quantity of fruit marketed both in Australia and overseas. 
During last week we heard from  Senator Walsh,  in his usually destructive way, that devaluation will not help the fruit industry, the dairy industry, or the beef industry. I guess the honourable senator does not know much about the economics of our export industries, so perhaps he can be forgiven for such stupid statements. But many people, including 2 of his colleagues, disagree with him. They are members of the Senate Select Committee on Mount Lyell Mining Operations of which  Senator Wright  is  Chairman.  They agree that in that export industry alone the general devaluation will save the jobs of those 400 men who have been threatened with dismissal. Regarding the rural industry I shall quote some remarks to show the feelings of men associated with that industry. The  chairman  of the Tasmanian State Fruit Board,  Mr R.  B. Walker, stated: 
It will put the apple industry back in business. It is a great decision and will give us the opportunity to compete for markets especially on the continent and in the Persian Gulf. 
The State  President  of the Tasmanian Farmers Federation,  Mr Stewart  Ferguson, claimed it was a shot in the arm for farming as a whole.  Mr John  Bennett,  Chairman  of the Dairy Farmers Federation, was delighted with the decision and he said: 
It is something in the order of what is needed to help dairy farmers. 
Similar statements have come from all round the industry.  Mr Max  Nicholson on behalf of the meat industry said that 45 per cent of the locally 
E reduced meat was exported and now there was better opportunity to get into overseas markets. So it would appear that  Senator Walsh  has a fair bit of learning to do about our export markets.  Senator Gietzelt  was not quite so dogmatic about the effects of devaluation. He claimed there was just no certainty that the market situation could be expected to improve following devaluation. He claimed it was not the price of the article but access to the markets that represented the greatest threat to the apple industry. There would not be one apple grower who would say that given equal competition and favourable financial terms the growers could not win those markets. We have quality fruit. All we need is favourable financial terms, and this devaluation must help. 
There are extraordinarily uninformed comments coming from honourable senators opposite. The depressed rural sector has been given the biggest boost in years and it is jubilant but because honourable senators opposite cannot bear to see this sector joyous even at this time of the year they have to pour cold water on its enthusiasm and cry doom. We heard  Senator McLaren  objecting to the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme, saying that it would ruin the mainland markets. Of course the mainland States will have to look to their laurels regarding the quality of their fruit because for the first time Tasmanian growers are now on an equal footing and can transport their fruit to the larger cities at the same cost as growers situated at an equal distance from that lucrative market. As I say, it will make the mainland growers strive to improve the quality of their fruit because the quality of Tasmanian fruit is world famous. 
-Nobody objects to fair competition. I am sure it is not the mainland growers who are objecting. It is only the members of the Opposition who are trying to make cheap political capital out of the situation that does nothing more than give simple justice to the Tasmanian fruit growers. I am sure  Senator Wriedt  will agree with this when he speaks later. 
-Well, we shall see whether  Senator Wriedt  disagrees with his colleagues.  Senator Gietzelt  said that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  did not know the apple industry at all. The honourable senator obviously agrees with  Senator McLaren  who assured us that his Party does know the industry.  Senator McLaren  spoke last week and he assured us that the Labor Government knows the apple industry and it would have acted on the Industries Assistance Commission reports which of course would have destroyed the apple industry. The honourable senator asked why this Government had not accepted the recommendations made by the IAC. In fact, he challenged me to reply. Well, I am only too happy to answer his question. The IAC report recommended the phasing out of the apple and pear industry. It recommended that 'the apple and pear statutory scheme be terminated after an interim 2-year period'. It went on to suggest that the scheme be extended to cover only the 1976 and 1977 crops. This Government will not be party to the termination of the scheme. The Government has confidence in the industry, as have the growers. Just because  Senator McLaren  says that a Labor government would terminate the industry, there is no reason for this Government to agree with that. 
These Bills provide for a levy not exceeding 6c per box for apples and pears for either the home market or the export market sold fresh, not exceeding 60c per tonne for juice fruit and not exceeding $1.40 per tonne for processing fruit, the only exemption being for the canning fruit industry which already pays a levy under the terms of its Act. However, while the Bills provide for these maximum figures, in the regulations accompanying the Act the Government is entitled to set the figures, following consideration of the recommendations of the Apple and Pear Growers Association. The Government has accepted these latest recommendations and they will apply from 1 January next year. They are: 5c per box for fresh apples and pears for both the Australian market and the export market, 50c per tonne for juice fruit and $ 1 per tonne for processing fruit. So that administrative costs will be kept to a minimum, the collecting points of the levy will be left to the selling agents, processors, quality purchasers and exporters. 
Certain exemptions also will minimise these costs. These exemptions are for fruit sold direct by growers from orchards or by the roadside. That custom is well appreciated by all Tasmanians. Many people go for a picnic in the beautiful Huon Valley and buy cases of tree ripened apples. Another exemption is for juicing or processing that is carried out by the grower himself, as long as the quantity does not exceed 500 boxes a year. The levy thus paid is expected to provide the Corporation with an income of $850,000 a year, compared with its present income of $250,000. It will enable the Corporation to carry out the marketing developments that the industry considers necessary. This Bill typifies the desire of the apple and pear growers for independence, and I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
-Has the Minister for Education seen reports of physical violence and intimidation by left wing elements at the conference of the Australian Union of Students? Considering that this body is financed by Commonwealth money, can the Minister say what measures exist to control this type of behaviour? Is the alleged statement by students attending the conference correct that they were told that universities are Commonwealth property and that State police cannot enter the grounds without special permission? 
-I direct the question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Can the Minister give the Senate any information regarding the new air freight service which I believe will be operating soon between Tasmania and the mainland States? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport which follows upon my earlier question to him. I believe that the Minister now has the answer to that question and I am wondering whether he could give it. 
-The urgency motion before the chamber today is typical of many of the unfounded allegations by the Opposition in the past 12 months. There is never any effort to quote relevant accurate facts because those facts do not suit the Opposition's cause. Instead we get these blanket statements such as in the urgency motion which states: 
The continuing decline in the Australian economy and the failure of the Government to take remedial action. 
I would like to look at some of those facts and I want Opposition senators to look at them too. Before devaluation inflation was coming down and coming down rapidly. This was shown in many areas. The consumer price index for 1976 was far more favourable than it was for 1975. In 1975 the rise in the consumer price index for the January to March quarter was 3.6 per cent. In that quarter in 1976 it was 3 per cent. For the April to June quarter it was 3.5 per cent in 1975 and 2.5 per cent in 1976. Then we come to the July-September quarter. I am quite sure the Opposition would agree that the figure for that quarter was artificially low because of Medibank. Medical expenses passed from the private sector to the public purse. The artificially low figure for that quarter was 0.8 per cent. In 1976 the figure for the corresponding quarter was 2.2 per cent. In 1975 the figure for the October to December quarter was 5.6 per cent. 
We have not received the figure for the October to December quarter of 1976, but we know that it will be an artificially high figure because of Medibank again, as medical expenses pass from the public sector to the private purse. The figure of 2.2 per cent for the September quarter of 1976 was the lowest since March 1973, excluding the artificially low Medibank quarter. March 1973 was only 3 months after Labor came to power. Other indications, althought not yet across the board, have been numerous and have been cited here today. I should like to add just a few. Home building costs in October rose by 0.5 per cent, the lowest figure since we were in power in November 1972. Other construction costs rose by only 0.4 per cent, again the lowest figure since we were in power in 1972. Business profits rose by 34 per cent in the 9 months between December 1975 and September 1976. As  Senator Guilfoyle  said, in that 9-month period there was a rise of 7V4 per cent in real non-farm product.  ( Quorum formed) 

 Mr Fraser had repeatedly reported at that time that inflation was coming down. Of course he was proved correct by the subsequent report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which fully supported the policies the Government had been adopting. In fact, it estimated that the annual inflation rate would have fallen to 7.5 per cent by the second half of 1977 if it had not been necessary to devalue. Even while the OECD mission was making these estimates- in that very month, in fact-Mr Whitlam was saying in a speech to the  Financial Times  Economy Seminar in October: It is perfectly obvious that the present Budget strategy is failing'. It was statements such as that and also a statement by the former Treasurer,  Mr Hayden-  his infamous statement in early September which he repeated in the latter part of that month- that the Government would nave to devalue, that forced devaluation. 
The investors who already knew that the Australian dollar was well over-valued gambled that  Mr Hayden  might be right and withheld their money. Businesses, and therefore jobs, were leaving the country. They were not going just to Asia, as  Senator Gietzelt  said; they were also going to Europe. I remember that when I was in Sydney, looking over a branch of an international company there, the manager told me that Sydney was the company's most expensive branch to manufacture in and that the company would have to leave Australia. It was cheaper for it to import its goods. 
In September 1976 the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the first time in that year gave the full indexation increase according to the consumer price index, so shattering business confidence that only partial wage indexation would continue. All these things were instrumental in forcing the Government to devalue the currency. The alternative to devaluation, as we know, was to borrow $ 1,000m. The Government chose to devalue, which at least would benefit our exports and increase employment opportunities rather than just increase our deficit. The need to improve our export situation was obvious. Our exports had become uncompetitive on the world market. In the past 10 years average weekly earnings in Australia rose by 178.3 per cent, compared to a rise in the United States of America of 72 per cent- over 100 per cent more. In the 3 years from 1972 to 1975 Australian wages rose by 1 5 per cent more than those of our major competitors. In addition, productivity was down. On the waterfront in Hobart- I shall take this example- the current loading rate of apples is 1 5 000 cases per ship per day. In New Zealand the rate is 50 000 cases per ship per day. Is it any wonder that our apple industry was not able to compete with the industry in New Zealand for overseas markets? Our apple industry is only one example of that sort of thing; it applies across the board. 
Having made the decision to devalue,  Mr Fraser  decided to make it a once and for all devaluation of 1 7V4 per cent, which said loud and clear to all potential investors: 'That is it. There will be no more'. As we know, the investors have responded. When  Mr Fraser  announced devaluation he stressed that from then on our currency would be on a managed float, the same as the currencies of many other industrial countries in the West such as Japan, Canada, the United States of America and West Germany. We were also told at the time that there would be quite large fluctuations for the first 3 months and that the currency rate would then settle down to a daily rate. This is what has happened. As  Senator Wriedt  said earlier, there were 2 large revaluations by the Reserve Bank, one of 2 per cent which was followed by another of 1.3 per cent in fairly quick succession. There have been several smaller revaluations since then and now our currency has settled down to the accepted minor fluctuations of the managed float and a rate representing a devaluation of 12.45 per cent. 
Even though the Prime Minister had stressed these facts at the time, the Opposition said that the Government did not know what it was doing. Our aim now is to capitalise on the assets that devaluation can give Australia and to control the inflation that could arise if the position is not monitored carefully. As honourable senators can imagine, controlling inflation is an exercise in monetary balance. Too much liquidity creates large demands and if demands exceed growth prices will go up. Hence the importance of keeping overseas borrowings in particular under control. However, the control must not be so strict as to stifle growth and incentive. What we need now is slow, steady growth coupled with slow, steady demand. Of course, this is what the Government is working towards. That is why we have made long term overseas borrowing much more attractive than the short term overseas borrowing of similar amounts under the variable deposit requirement scheme. In fact, there is an emargo on borrowing for less than 2 years on amounts of $100,000. Of course, exemptions to this are the capital investment in the mining and manufacturing industries where we need growth. 
There is no credit squeeze.  Mr Lynch  has denied this every time it has been suggested. It is amazing to me how many people in the business world react to rumour. But I suppose that this is just a direct result of the 3 years when the Labor Government was in power when, just for selfsurvival, these people had to react to the slightest rumour to protect themselves against the various whims of the legislation of that government- the present Opposition. The $850m which the banking system is at the moment required to maintain in the Reserve Bank of Australia will be released in March to meet the seasonal demand of funds.  Mr President,  does this sound to you like a credit squeeze? Before the Liberal Party came to power we said that the road back would be long and hard. The Opposition admits that it created the disaster we faced when we came into power.  Mr Whitlam  himself has said recently that he panicked and so did most of Caucus. I believe that the Australian people recognise that it only takes a few minutes for a wild horse to kick down a barn but it takes many days for a skilled carpenter to rebuild it. 
-Can the Minister for Social Security inform the chamber whether it is her intention to extend the telephone interpreting service to all States of the Commonwealth? If so, when can the citizens of Tasmania look forward to its implementation in their State? 
I rise to oppose the motion by  Senator Durack  to suspend standing order 242. As a member of the public I voted in the 1974 referendum, having listened to the case put forward by the Liberal Party. I found the speeches at that time very convincing and so I voted according to the Liberal Party policy. Since this Bill was introduced in the House of Representatives I have been able to read once again in  Hansard  the debate that took place at that time. I still find the matters raised in that debate very convincing. I feel that the honourable senators who are not present, as well as the general public, should have additional time to do as I did this weekend and read  Hansard.  Senator Missen  said that he is sure that the honourable senators who are not here would know about the matter. I do not think that that is good enough. I do not know whether those honourable senators know about it. I have no idea. They may have read newspaper reports, but I do not believe that those reports would enable honourable senators to know of matters which have been going on in Parliament. I feel that they should be given the chance to come to this place to debate this matter. I am afraid that I must oppose the motion although it really hurts my heart to do so. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport say when the proposed list of items eligible for the southbound freight subsidy for the rural community will be made available, as many people in the farming area are keen to take advantage of the scheme? 
-In rising to speak tonight I find myself in complete opposition to the Constitutional Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill before the Senate. It contains a proposal which was brought to the people by the Labor Government in 1974. It is a Bill which seeks to undermine the stability and power of the Senate and by so doing undermine the stability and power of Australian people. This afternoon  Senator McLaren  admitted this when he agreed that this measure is the first step in abolishing the power of the Senate, the sooner the better. 
-The Senate is a States' House and I believe that even  Senator McLaren  would agree with that. It is a House whose prime object is the protection of the States, the smaller States in particular. That is why each State has equal representation. Each State has 10 senators and each senator, in normal circumstances, is elected for 6 years. Without the Senate there would be no Federal Parliament for the States would never have agreed to join in federation. When I mention the small States in particular it is to stress the reliance the States put on the Senate. New South Wales and Victoria have the numbers in the House of Representatives and their voices are heard clearly in that place. Tasmania, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia desperately need the Senate to ensure fair play, to ensure that their voices are heard. If at any time the 10 senators of one State are forced to vote in a block on a piece of legislation which they consider is detrimental to their State there would be no way their voice would not be heard. 
Having established this fact- for indeed it is fact- I turn to the independence of the Senate and the necessity for this. To date the Senate has had all the independence that it has needed to be an effective House of the Parliament. It is the stabilising influence, the House of review. It is the House where time is given, where we can have a second look. Since I have been a member of this Parliament I am more convinced than ever that that second look is essential. At times legislation has passed the lower House without the public having had time even to think of the Bill in which it may well be vitally interested. The fact that the Bill must be sent to the Senate not only gives the public time to consider the Bill in which it could be interested, time to make representations to the senators from their States, but also gives the members of the Senate time to look at such Bills, to give them a second look and to be sure that that legislation is the wisest possible to meet the occasion. I stress again that it must be the wisest legislation in the interests of all the States. 
What happens if the Senate in its wisdom sees danger in the proposed Bills? It then has the power either to reject those Bills or to amend them. This is the purpose of the House of review. In fact, that is what happened under the Labor Administration. Socialist Bills detrimental to the small States were sent to the Senate from the House of Representatives. The Senate, when reviewing those Bills, rejected them. At that time, people all over Australia were saying: 'Thank God for the Senate. Thank God for the Constitution and the wisdom of the fathers of Federation'. I could not agree more because, if the power of the Senate had not been upheld and if this legislation that is before the Senate today had been in force, history could well have taken a different road. This is the main reason why we have Opposition senators voting so gleefully for the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill today. As they have said in the past, it is the first step in the destruction of the Senate. 
Let me express clearly the course that history could have taken S years ago if this legislation had been in force. In 1972, when there was a swing to the Australian Labor Party both the House of Representatives and, under the new legislation, half the Senate would have had to face the people. With the swing that then took place there is no doubt that that half of the Senate would have contained a majority of Labor senators returned - 
-Just let me finish. In that half - 
-No, I have no grizzle with that. It would have been the will of the people and I have no grizzle with that. However, if the majority after that election had not been sufficient to give  Mr Whitlam  a majority in the Senate, if after that election the majority still had not been with the Labor Party, during the early part of 1973, in that euphoric stage through which we passed when he was handing out all the goodies, when the damage was not obvious to the people and when he had not shown his true socialist colours, he could have again taken the House of Representatives to the people and under this legislation, the second half of the Senate automatically would have gone to an election with  Mr Whitlam  and the Labor Party. There would have been no need for the protection of rejected legislation or the protection of any time lag. It all could have been accomplished in the first few months. 
With the Labor record of rapid change and, as I have said, of handing out large sums of money to whomever asked for it, before the damage to the economy and the unemployment were evident and while Labor's true colours of socialism still had not been made apparent, the possibility existed that the people could have been fooled by that rogue Government because of its temporary popularity. There would have been no brake, no protection for the people against the socialist Bills that the Government attempted to pass. The people need that protection. They need that stability. They need the Constitution. We need 6-year term senators. We need time for people to see how a government performs and to be assured that a government will not, without notice, change our whole democratic way of life as the previous Government attempted to do. We need this time. We need this stay. It is attainable only through the 6-year term of senators. 
When I raised this matter with honourable senators on our side of the Senate who agree with the passage of the Bill, I was told that it was highly unlikely that any Prime Minister would dare to return to the people in anything less than 18 months to 2 years.  Senator Scott  said tonight that the people would not accept it and that it was most unlikely that a Prime Minister would do it. As a matter of fact, others have said that the Governor-General of the day would be highly unlikely to sign the necessary papers entitling him to do it. All I can say in reply to that is that until 1972 every Australian would have said that it was highly unlikely that any Prime Minister would try to deceive the Loan Council, that the Governor-General had to sign the minutes of a meeting of the Executive Council and that he would not do so if deceit were involved. We were told that it would be highly unlikely that any Prime Minister would dare to do it. However, we found that with that rogue Government nothing was highly unlikely, whether it was deceiving the Governor-General himself or deceiving the Loan Council. I for one would never be prepared to trust any future socialist or pro-communist government with this type of legislation which relies just on the idea that it would be highly unlikely that any leader would take advantage of it. 
I am very disturbed. I care so much for my State. If the power of the Senate is diminished, then without doubt the voice of my State will also be diminished. We cannot afford to lose any further voice in the Parliament. In the lower House we have only 5 voices as against 45 voices from New South Wales and 34 voices from Victoria. In fact, the combined voices from New South Wales and Victoria number seventy-nine, while the combined voices from the smaller States-those of Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania- number forty-five. It is a case of seventy-nine versus forty-five. Our State cannot afford to lose another voice. I hope that the Government will accept one of the amendments put forward in this debate by the concerned Government senators. It is not too late. This is no doubt the most important legislation we have yet been asked to review. I honestly believe that the way we are dealing with this Bill typifies the Senate as a House of review. If the lower House had had the opportunity to give to this Bill the time that we have been able to give to it, I believe that it would not have been given the speedy passage that it was given in that place. I am totally opposed to this Bill. I am firmly committed to the independence of the Senate and the unhampered voice of the smaller States. 
It is of no use for  Senator McLaren  to try to put words into  Senator Wright's  mouth. At no stage did  Senator Wright  say that senators should all serve their 6-year term. The amendment specifically says that should the Senate reject or fail to pass a proposed law already passed by the House of Representatives it can be called on by the Prime Minister to face the people. At no stage did  Senator Wright  say senators must serve their 6 years. It is just ridiculous for  Senator McLaren  to put words into  Senator Wright's  mouth.  Senator James  McClelland also tried to put other words into  Senator Wright's  mouth. At no stage did  Senator Wright  say that a Governor-General would at all times take the advice of the Government. He just said that should the Prime Minister seek to go to the people the Governor-General would abide by that decision. In point of fact, in 1975 we had just that position. The GovernorGeneral would have been pleased if  Mr Whitlam  at that stage had wanted to go to the people. Because he refused to go to the people, the Governor-General eventually insisted that he do so. 
The proposed amendment points out exactly what the main crux of my objection to the legislation is.  Senator Wright's  figures prove that four times a government in the House of Commons has served for less than 12 months. As I said yesterday, it is highly unlikely that this would happen in our country, but it was highly unlikely also that any government would attempt to deceive the Loan Council and attempt to deceive the Governor-General. 

 -Mr Chairman, on that point of order, I am talking about the occasions already introduced into the debate on this amendment by  Senator Missen  as those thought to be highly unlikely. 
-I am surprised that senators from the small States, and  Senator Steele  Hall comes into that category, are opposing this amendment. It has been pointed out today that by what is proposed a Prime Minister will be able to take the States House to the people along with himself. He already has great power in the House of Representatives through the large vote available from New South Wales and Victoria. Let us remember that the combined vote of the representatives of New South Wales and Victoria is 79 while that of the small States is 45. What would happen if a Bill is put forward which is detrimental to one of the small States? Take Tasmania, where we have only 5 voices in the House of Representatives. If that State's vote were defeated a Bill could be passed which would be detrimental to our small State. What happens if the Senate is taken to the people a short time after election? The Prime Minister primarily is elected by the 2 largest States and he would have power over this States' House. He could determine when this House should face the people and I believe that this is one of the points that should be considered in this amendment. 

 - Senator McLaren, when talking on the previous clause said - 
It applies to this clause also. He said that it was our desire to stop a Prime Minister taking us to the people and that we were quite willing to send the House of Representatives to the people any time we like without having to go ourselves. 
I am glad  Senator McLaren  just interjected because it has made it clear to everybody listening and to those in the public gallery that  Senator McLaren,  either through complete ignorance or - 
I am not being rude. 
-He said it either out of complete ignorance or is deliberately misleading the Senate. Frankly I do not know which, but if he will turn to the Constitution, a copy of which he has in his desk before him, and will read clause 57 he will see that it states: 
If the House of Representatives passes any proposed law, and the Senate rejects or fails to pass it, or passes it with amendments to which the House of Representatives will not agree, and if after an interval of three months the House of Representatives, in the same or the next session, again passes the proposed law with or without any amendments which have been made, suggested, or agreed to by the Senate, and the Senate rejects or tails to pass it, or passes it with amendments to which the House of Representatives will not agree, the Governor-General may dissolve the Senate ana the House of Representatives simultaneously. 
That is, not just the House of Representatives but the House of Representatives and the Senate simultaneously. It is no use saying that we will send the House of Representatives to the people but we will not go ourselves. We go ourselves at the same time. What we are objecting to is that the Prime Minister in another place will take away the independence of the Senate. He will be willing to send us to the people due to some private disharmony in the House of Representatives. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Following the reported anger of the people of Britain to the reference made by the Leader of the Opposition to Her Majesty the Queen becoming the Queen of Sheba, has the Minister any knowledge as to whether the Leader of the Labor Party intends to send a formal apology to Her Majesty? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that last week the Minister for Health advised the organisation Population Services International to defer the setting up of an abortion clinic in Canberra until the health and legal aspects had been given appropriate consideration and the matter had been 'debated by people at the local level'? Is the Minister aware that, despite this statement and despite the fact that this attitude was conveyed to  Dr Davis  of PSI by  Mr Blandford  of the Capital Territory Health Commission, PSI still intends to go ahead with its abortion clinic and that, in fact, staff at the clinic had training sessions last Friday? What other action is available to the Minister or the Government in view of this blatant disregard by  Dr Davis  and PSI in view of the statement by the Minister for Health? 
-The opening of Parliament by  Her  Majesty the Queen is a matter of great pride to the people of Australia. It is with great pleasure that I support the motion moved by my colleague,  Senator Lewis.  I should like to congratulate  Senator Lewis  on his maiden speech. He spoke of the decline in the income of the man on the land, the decline in his living standards and his need to be assured that there is a future on the land for him and his family and that they can plan with confidence for that future. This has been the aim of our Government since it was returned to power, as rural industry was the hardest hit in those 3 years by the Whitlam Government and by inflation. We need only to remember the Coombs report, the abolition of the superphosphate bounty which flowed from it and the attempted cut of 20 per cent in the reserve price of wool. Members of the Opposition have not changed their colours at all because they are still advocating the adoption of the Industries Assistance 
Commission report on the apple industry in Tasmania. 
In the course of this debate,  Senator Cavanagh  has been critical of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  He said that the farmers of Kangaroo Island, if  Mr Sinclair  had his way, would be forced to rot on the dole. I am quite sure that if  Senator Cavanagh  gave the matter any thought he would realise that orchardists in Tasmania also would be forced to rot on the dole if the IAC report was accepted. We have heard so much so often from honourable senators opposite about wealthy farmers. Yet farmers are the only group in our community whose incomes have actually decreased while their working conditions and hours have remained the same as those of their grandfathers. Primary producers are the backbone of our country. It is time that honourable senators opposite realised that the standard of living of the city dweller is governed completely by the hard work of primary producers. 
Last week, in question time,  Senator Grimes  asked a question of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  as to whether the Government was reconsidering the automatic indexation of pensions and other benefits. When the Minister gave her answer,  Senator Grimes  was not satisfied. Even though she had answered in the negative, saying that the Government was not reconsidering this matter, he asked a supplementary question. All I can say is that it is time honourable senators opposite realised that our Government really felt for the people in need and assisted those in greatest need. The Labor Party professes to care for the less fortunate but actions speak louder than words. 
I remind the Senate of the recent announcement by the Minister for Social Security that the increase in pensions and benefits in May would be a full 8.2 per cent indexation rise. This increase will mean that the single pension will be $47.10 a week. The rise is $3.60 a week. The married rate will be $78.50 a week, an increase of $6 a week. The 3 social security increases in pensions which have been announced by our Government since it came to office have resulted in a 2 1 .5 per cent lift in pensions. The single pension following the May increase will have risen by $8.35 a week. The married pension will have been increased by $12 a week. The married pension will have been increased by $ 12 a week. 
More pensioners than ever before will be eligible because the single invalid or age pensioner without a child retains some benefit until his or her income reaches $114.20 a week, an increase of $16.70 a week. The level of permissible income for a married couple will rise to $191.50 a week an increase of $18 a week, so a married couple can now earn up to $191.50 a week without a reduction in pension. Why did not the Labor Government index pensions and benefits automatically? Again, in respect of pensions, this Government has taken the first step in the abolition of the means test in that it has implemented legislation restricting the income test only to the area of pensions. 
If we trace the history of social services as we know it in Australia today as a government concern, we find that it is a fairly new concept. In fact, the first government to introduce government legislation for any social welfare in this country did so only early in this century. Prior to that this was left to voluntary organisations or the wealthier members of the community who often saw this as their responsibility. 
The oldest voluntary organisation was the Benevolent Society of New South Wales which originated in 1818. The purpose of this organisation was 'to relieve the poor, the distressed, the aged and the infirm'. From this, many voluntary organisations sprang up to provide homes for orphans and abandoned children and relief in the form of food and clothing for widows, old people, families, and the unemployed. Hospitals were built for the poor, the aged and the invalid. 
Although governments have taken over many responsibilities previously carried out by voluntary organisations, this has not led to their demise; instead they are possibly more active today than they have ever been. The voluntary sector not only carries out its traditional role but also opens up new fields. It acts as the conscience of the community and is a leader in this area. Voluntary organisations and governments work together in many areas including aged persons homes, services for the mentally and physically handicapped, special services for migrants and youth, crisis centres, such as Lifeline, pregnancy support, women's shelters and drug contact centres. All governments need this stimulation. 
Australia has an enviable record for early social welfare and the Liberal Party has a particularly good record in this regard. The first country actually to legislate for any form of social welfare was Germany in 1889. I have spoken of this before in this place. Legislation was passed to enable people to insure against old age and illness. This legislation was followed 2 years later in that country when the first age pension in the world was introduced. New Zealand followed this example in 1898 and Australia then adopted the practice with Victoria and New South Wales under non-Labor governments introducing the appropriate legislation. In 1901 the new Federal Government introduced this pension through a non-Labor government, the Deakin coalition Government. Australia was the third country in the world to introduce social services as a government responsibility. In 1930, at the height of the Depression, New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland legislated for special money to be raised for relief work. Tasmania, South Australia and Western Australia also voted money for relief. But the emphasis was laced on work for relief. We have seen in many States that these works carried out at this time have been of great benefit to those States later. 
As I have said in this place before, in 1941 child endowment was first introduced in the Commonwealth sphere by a non-Labor government, the Menzies Government. This benefit was increased to realistic proportions only last year by this Government with the introduction of the family allowance scheme which was designed particularly to help low income families, large families and the families of the unemployed. This new scheme was also a means of ensuring that mothers had money in their hands to direct to what they thought were the most important priorities. This was a great step forward in providing support for the family unit. 
As a matter of fact, Australia was the first country in the world whose federal government introduced a non-means-tested universal child endowment scheme funded entirely by general revenue. This occurred under the Menzies Government. New Zealand had previously implemented a similar scheme, but it was not a universal scheme. France, Germany, Italy and Belgium also had implemented similar schemes but those schemes were either not universal or not paid for by the Government concerned; they were paid for by employers or companies. 
As I look back over the last 60 years, it seems hard to imagine that such a short while ago there were just no social welfare benefits of any kind. There were no age or invalid pensions and no family allowance benefits. As a matter of fact, the population had a totally different outlook to life. From the beginning of their working lives people had a responsibility to their families. Breadwinners liked to leave their families well catered for if anything happened to them. Money was put away from that first pay day not for that overseas trip, as is the case today, but for that rainy day. How many young people today with the security of social services behind them and with the optimism of youth would give a thought to that rainy day? It is just not done any more. The community has demanded that it be relieved of that burden. Instead, money has been taken in the form of tax and the thrifty and wealthier members of the community pay compulsorily now not only for the genuinely needy but also for those who desire to spend up big because the Government will provide if things go wrong. 
This philosophy may be all very well when it is applied to the wealthy but when it is applied to the thrifty, to the family which has gone without over the years, to the family which has provided for its own home, for better opportunities for the children, for retirement and generally for their priorities, and when 50 per cent of the interest their savings earn is taken in income tax, there is no justification for supporting those who will not work or the spendthrifts who live for the day with no thought of their responsibilities for tomorrow. 
Because of this the Government last year tightened the guidelines for eligibility for unemployment benefit. This was found necessary because of the many abuses brought to light under the Labor Party's too liberal eligibility criteria. While the Commonwealth Employment Service has not been able to enforce those guidelines in all necessary instances in the past year, the additional 300 members now allocated to its offices will allow a tightening in this area of abuse. The social security system originally was designed to protect people against economic hardship and insecurity. We believe that this should be accomplished in such a way as will ensure that while people's independence is retained their working incentives, where applicable, are also maintained to the full. It is interesting to note that the total expenditure of the Department of Social Security alone represents 49.3 per cent of personal income tax collected. The Budget allocation this year for the payment of pensions and benefits is 32 per cent more than the actual expenditure in 1975-76. One can draw his own conclusions as to which Government is more interested in supporting the needy. That amounts to $140m a fortnight which is paid out in pensions and benefits alone. In 1976 there were 1.9m pensioners and beneficiaries receiving assistance. Is it any wonder that the Government wants full value for this massive expenditure? This money really must be spent on the genuinely needy. 
I have said that ideally the assistance should be given in such a way as to ensure that independence and responsibility are retained. The Government should encourage self reliance so that more individuals can provide and are willing to provide for their own welfare. This philosophy seems to have vanished in the last 4 years. As an example of this, in 1972, the last year in which we of the Liberal and Country Parties were in office, 30 per cent of people registered for employment actually accepted unemployment benefit yet last year 70 per cent of those registered for employment received the benefit. This change occurred in 4 short years. Would you say that this was a product of the Whitlam era? 
There have been lots of reports recently about our Government being ami dole bludgers. This is true. Our Government is opposed not only to those who cheat on unemployment benefit but also to those in the community who cheat their fellow man in Australia. But this does not mean that we do not recognise the seriousness of the unemployment problem as the Opposition would try to have people believe. We are fully aware of our responsibilities and, as I have just pointed out, we accept those responsibilities and, as I have just pointed out, we accept those responsibilities better than did the Opposition which originally caused the unemployment problem we have today. It was our Government which indexed automatically the unemployment benefit to the full consumer price index increase. It is our Government which will continue to fight those who try to abuse the system. It gives me great pleasure to support the motion that my colleague  Senator Lewis  moved in this place. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. Will the Minister investigate the possibility of Tasmanian newspapers being delivered to Parliament House each morning rather than midafternoon, which is the case at the moment? I am sure that this must be possible as, if my Tasmanian colleagues and I leave Tasmania at 7 a.m., we can be delivered to Parliament House by 9.30 a.m. 
While I appreciate that the Minister may not agree that this represents a gross inconvenience to Tasmanian senators and members, I ask him not to be influenced by this aspect but to do all in his power to assist us with this service. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. As the May school holiday season is rapidly approaching and as the stated policy of this Government is to assist those in greatest need, can the Minister inform the chamber what percentage of children of working parents who took advantage of the Christmas holiday children's care program were children of one parent families or lower income families? 
My question also is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Is any special study being undertaken of the needs of dependent children of lone fathers or are the grants given to the Working Women's Centre in Melbourne and the Working Women's Trade Union Commission in Sydney, a combined sum of $32,400, for investigating the problems of lone fathers or just those of working women? 
I also support the motion. It is rather unusual to see the Opposition acting in an independent way on this matter. It is rather nice to see. I point out that in today's Melbourne  Age  we find that the only piece of the reporting on your statement,  Mr President,  that has been left out is your reason No. 2. I have read this report very thoroughly. Whilst it does report on reason No. 1 and reason No. 3, the reason No. 2 that you very clearly put to the 2 reporters in your office has been left out of the report in the Melbourne  Age.  I was wondering whether perhaps leaving this debate until another day will give the Melbourne  Age  a chance to rectify this. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. In view of the fact that the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly voted this week to ban private abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory at least for 90 days while a committee of the Assembly looks at the question, why is it that in the latest issue of the Canberra telephone directory which was distributed in Parliament House last week the Department of Social Security has listed the Abortion Counselling Service in the Department's help reference page? Is the Minister or her Department aware that the Australian Capital Territory Abortion Counselling Service makes no secret of the fact that it acts as a referral agency for private abortion clinics in Sydney and Melbourne and recently described  Dr Davis  of Population Services International (Australasia) Ltd as a good abortionist? In view of the Legislative Assembly's great concern about private abortion clinics, and about Population Services International in particular, will the Minister give an assurance that the Government by publicising the Abortion Counselling Service in that section of the telephone directory relating to its own services is not providing an endorsement for this or any other private abortion organisation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is he aware of the extraordinary statement by the Minister for Housing and Construction in the Tasmanian Government that the Federal Government has no plans whatsoever for defending Tasmania in the event of war? The Tasmanian Minister calls this policy the Bass Strait line and says that the Federal Government has refined its defence policy to exclude Tasmania. Can the Minister give an assurance that this statement is not only untrue but positively mischievous and that the Australian continental defence strategy automatically includes this most important island State? 
-The aim of the 3 Bills now before the Senate is to extend the provisions of the Apple and Pear 
Stabilization Amendment Act 1976 to the 1977 season. Its provisions are the same as those in that Bill debated here last year. When I say that they are the same, that is exactly what I mean. The Bill provides for a $2 a case subsidy for the 2 million cases of apples and 80 cents a case for the 1.4 million cases of pears. In the last 12 months, we have seen tremendous rises in costs. The average weekly wage increased from $165 in March 1976 to $193.50 in December 1976, which is the latest period for which figures are available. That is only a 9 months period showing an increase of $28.50. Overseas freights have risen by 22.6 per cent. Many other additional costs might be mentioned affecting production. They include an 8 per cent increase in packing, for instance, not to mention the increased spraying charges among those additional production costs faced by orchardists. 
The average income of the Huon orchardist last year was estimated at $3,000. These people have had to contend with all these additional increases when receiving an income that is now well below the unemployment benefit. The yearly unemployment benefit is now in excess of $4,000. The Huon orchardists receive $3,000 a year for a 70 to 80 hour week. There is little hope that their product will earn for them an income anywhere near the unemployment benefit this year. 
There is little I can add to the speech which I made when debating this legislation last year. Figures which I gave then demonstrated that Australia is the best fed and cheapest fed community in the world. Either we must pay for our food from the supermarket or we must pay for it by subsidy; we cannot continue to be the best fed and, by far, the cheapest fed community in the world at the expense of our farmers. 
Last year, the Industries Assistance Commission presented a report recommending that assistance to the apple industry be phased out. That assistance was to be $2 in 1976, $1 this year and nothing in 1978. Justifiably, our Government would have absolutely nothing to do with that proposal. As I said last year, assistance must be provided to help to establish new markets. The sooner that assistance is given, the sooner the subsidy can be reduced. 
We must enter the Japanese market which is the most important to Australia. With the new relationship with Japan since our Government came to power, I believe that this is likely in the 1978 season. We have entered the Asian markets. The annual report of the Apple and Pear Corporation reveals that our markets in 
Malaysia and Hong Kong increased in 1976 compared with 1975 and 1974. 
Last year in Tasmania we had people with enough confidence in our marketing to ask the Australian people to support them for a few more years until we could become established in the Japanese market. I believe that this is something that the apple industry is capable of doing and something which the Apple and Pear Corporation should certainly investigate now. 
Last year  Senator Gietzelt  said-and this year he has corrected himself- that it would be best if the apple industry were phased out as we were having the farmers on and that it was cruel to keep dangling them on the end of a string. With that in mind, I turn to look at the amendment moved by the Labor Party. It reads: 
That the Bills be withdrawn with a view to bringing forward Bills which 
Increase the rate of stabilisation payments of $3 per box of apples and $ 1.20 per box of pears and/or 
I emphasise that phrase 'and/or': 
Provide supplementary assistance measures to facilitate adjustments in the fruit growing industry and to provide assistance directly to individual fruit growers until such times as a coherent planned policy by which the Australian fruit growing industry can prosper, is determined. 
Proposal a. is quite all right. But following the and/or' we find reference to 'supplementary assistance measures', but no mention of the amount of that assistance, 'to facilitate adjustments', but with no mention of what adjustments. No information is given as to what adjustments would be necessary for this supplementary assistance. The amendment does not specify the type of assistance. I ask: What sort of assistance is the Opposition suggesting? Is it the unemployment benefit? The form of assistance is not stated. 
In the course of the debate today,  Senator Gietzelt  said that he really loved the apple growers all along but that he had just not understood what the matter was all about. Having listened to  Senator Wright, Senator Gietzelt  in the Christmas recess did his homework. I ask: What type of behaviour is that for a shadow minister for agriculture? 

 Mr President, I do not intend to speak at length on this Bill as I really said all that there is for me to say in the debate last year. I suggested then to the Government that it would be of far more use to the industry to subsidise it in a greater way at that time so that it could seek to enter other markets-I was referring specifically to the Asian markets- so that it could get out of the European markets. This was not done. We find that, while the Labor Government in 1975 had reduced the subsidy to $1.60 a box, it now proposes by its amendment to increase the rate of stabilisation payment on apples to $3 a box. We must view that amendment with suspicion. I reject the Labor Party's amendment. The Opposition has deliberately made it vague. I view its action as a political exercise, and nothing more. I will support the amendment foreshadowed by  Senator Wright.  I plead with the Government to increase the subsidy for apple growers in our State. It is an industry that can play a big part in primary production and which can come back into its own with assistance to enable it to get into the Asian markets. 
Sitting suspended from 5.50 to 8 p.m. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that it has been alleged that health funds and Medibank have paid for 44 000 abortions in Australia in 1976 and that the total payment for these operations and associated anaesthetics amounted to $4m? In view of the extraordinarily large number of these tragic operations, which I am sure all Australians will agree are most traumatic to all concerned, can the Minister say what investigations are being undertaken to introduce alternative methods of contraceptive education since those presently undertaken obviously are proving most unsuccessful? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Since the introduction by this Government last year of the secret ballot legislation can the Minister give the figures of unions which have changed from union run elections to elections run by the Commonwealth Electoral Office? 
It would appear that the Opposition's major criticism of the Government's industrial relations policy concerns this proposal for a national prices and wages freeze. This was a proposition which was put to both employers and unions by not only the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  but also every State Premier, both Labor and Liberal, and it would appear that the honourable senators on the Opposition benches just do not agree with it. They are not willing to give it a go and so are being critical of the actions of every parliamentary leader in this country. As this debate comes such a short time after the laying on the table of the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  and as this is the culmination of our Government's industrial relations policy, the matters involved already have been debated in some depth. Perhaps the most important aspect to remember when debating this matter is that the Minister when tabling the proposed legislation stressed that it would lay on the table for some time giving full opportunity for public debate by and consultation with all interested parties. He did this despite the fact that the Industrial Relations Bureau was part of our election platform; in fact, it was quite an important plank in our policy. So it has not been sprung on the community or on the unions. In fact, the principle of the Industrial Relations Bureau already has had quite wide public debate. 
The Minister has been at pains to stress the willingness of the Government to discuss and debate all aspects of the Bill with both the trade union movement and employer organisations and I feel, therefore, that it is a pity that this debate on the Bill should take place today. I feel that it should more properly have taken place after finalisation of the provisions of the Bill following consultations and after amendments that had been agreed to had been made to the Bill. However, the principle behind the legislation already had received wide public debate at the time of the election campaign. It was debated all over the country and as a result received overwhelming support from every Australian. We have the mandate to bring in this just legislation and I am sure that most honourable senators opposite would agree that we have general support for it from the Australian community. I am sure also that the Medibank strike which occurred after the election underlined the fact that the ordinary rank and file member wanted some form of redress and some way to say to his union executive if he felt as many of them did at that time that there was not enough consultation and, in a majority of instances, there was absolutely no consultation between the union bosses and the members of the union. The members wanted some say in whether they went on strike. We all remember the victimisation of members who wanted to go back to work that took place at that time. We remember the attempted fines and the threat of these fines. This Bill seeks to overcome just this sort of thing. 
The Bureau is to be an industrial ombudsman.  Senator James  McClelland said today in an intimidatory way that unionists who went to the Bureau would be telling on their fellow unionists and he talked about scabs in the unions. We on this side of the chamber believe that individual freedom is more important than that and that an employee should not be made to join a union and to abide by that union's decisions whether good or bad, right or wrong. We believe in individual freedom and that this Bureau will be an industrial ombudsman. It is to be a place where any man or woman can go. 
-I cannot see what that has to do with the legislation,  Senator. It  is a place where any man or woman can go to express opposition to any organisation rule or to any industrial action being taken by the union. The Bureau is obliged, firstly, to investigate the legitimacy of the union membership of the person objecting and, secondly, to keep the name of the person going to it confidential. 
-I shall explain it to you,  Senator, if  you do not realise. 
It is obliged to keep the name confidential because of the intimidation that has taken place when any single member has attempted to do anything about it. The Bureau also is obliged to investigate the complaint and, if it finds on investigation that the complaint is legitimate, to go to the union concerned and tell it of the complaint. If there is enough opposition amongst the rank and file membership to any industrial action that the union might be contemplating the union is informed of it, and if it does not take that opposition into account the 
Industrial Relations Bureau then takes the matter to the Federal Court of Australia. 
-Membership of the Australian Medical Association is not compulsory. A doctor does not have to be a member of the AMA, as the honourable senator possibly realises. This process avoids the very difficult position faced by a unionist who is attempting to lodge such an objection on his own and I think we would find very few members who would be prepared individually to approach the court in defiance of a union executive direction. We have in this legislation for the first time been realistic and have faced up to the fact that while previously a single member of a union could complain or could try to take action against oppressive rules or an executive decision, realistically speaking this never happened. No single member would attempt to do this, and very few have done so, for fear of victimisation. 
-In Australia, because the Bureau will keep the name confidential the union will have no idea who has indicated opposition to its rules or actions, and this is the crux of the legislation. We believe in the complete freedom of the individual, that the individual's right must be protected and that each and every member of the community is entitled to the same protection under the law. It has not been the case in the past but we consider that this legislation can bring it about. A large part of those freedoms which I have just mentioned is the right of the individual to choose his own employment and to choose to join or not to join any organisation. 
-There is no enforcement whatsoever in this country to join any political or social organisation and there should be no enforcement for anyone to join any industrial organisation either. 
I agree, or the AMA. There is a clause in the Bill which specificially allows a person who has a conscientious belief that prohibits him from joining any union or organisation, to approach the Registrar and to obtain a certificate of exemption. Armed with that certificate, that person cannot be forced either by intimidation or by any other penalty to join any union or any employer organisation. His conscientious objection does not have to be on religious grounds but can be for any reason. 
-He is exempt under this legislation. As I have said, this legislation is to lie on the table in order that there can be open public debate. Amendments will be brought down. The Minister has made it very clear that he is willing to have full consultation and public debate on this legislation. We have found in the past that all self employed people have been forced to join unions. 
-They have been forced to join unions by discriminatory action being taken against them, by threat. This has happened just recently when the supply of goods has been cut off and they have not been supplied with goods until they have joined the appropriate union. This will no longer be able to happen because if that sort of action takes place the courts can deal with it. There has been much talk about the policing of this legislation and the penalties for breaches of the Act. At the moment the only penalties provided for are monetary penalties on the individuals and the organisations, and the deregistration of organisations. In the past these penalties have proved to be most inadequate, as  Senator James  McClelland said today. I am sure that the whole community realises that they are most inadequate. Because the penalties have been inadequate the previous Conciliation and Arbitration Act has not functioned as it should have. 
Because this Government believes that the Australian people must be protected from the harsh effects of industrial disruption, that the rights of the individual are terribly important but that individuals have responsibilities to carry out, the penalties have been made more realistic. The additional powers given to the court are to suspend all or any of the capacities, rights and privileges of an organisation or its members, and to restrict the use of the funds or property of the organisation and to make provision for their control. The grounds for deregistration of organisations have been extended to include interference with overseas or interstate trade and commerce or government service, or engaging in conduct or activities not authorised under the organisation's rules. I believe that the rank and file unionists realise that in the past the unions have escaped from much responsibility for their actions, that they have held the Australian people to ransom, that they have tried to take over the job of the properly elected government  of this country. They believe that is not the rightful role of the union. People want the government that they have elected to do this job, and they want that government to be able to do the job unhindered by any union action. For that reason I believe that the rank and file unionists will support this legislation. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications explain to the chamber the reasons that residents of Hobart and Perth pay more for parcel post between capital cities than do residents of other capital cities? I point out that parcels of one kilogram sent between Melbourne and Sydney, Sydney and Brisbane, Melbourne and Adelaide, Sydney and Adelaide, Adelaide and Canberra and Melbourne and Canberra cost $ 1 .70 to send while the same parcel sent between Hobart and Melbourne costs $2.00 to send? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development: In view of the apparent lack of housing for rehabilitation purposes through the women's refuges, can the Minister say whether pressure can be put on the States to give priority in allocation of welfare housing to the clients of the refuges? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Has the Minister seen a letter to the editor of the  Australian  newspaper in which the writer refers to the customary burning of unclaimed articles by officials of Australia Post? Can the Minister give assurance that such alleged breaches of the law will be fully investigated? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. Following the allocation of $3.5m of Commonwealth funds for 1977 to support projects relating to innovations and change in primary and secondary education, can the Minister say whether the approved projects will be made public, in view of the fact that this area is of great concern and interest to parents? 
-Can the Minister for Science say whether the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has assessed the value to Australian vegetable growers of the fluid drill used for the sowing of pre-germinated vegetable seeds presently being used for experimental purposes in the United Kingdom? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs by saying that I am aware of the increased efficiency of the Narcotics Bureau in recent months in detecting and seizing illegal drugs. Nevertheless, it is disturbing to learn of the significant increases in the use of heroin in Australia and particularly that most addicts are under 24 years of age and some as young as 12 years of age. Is it known that most of the heroin used in Australia is smuggled from Thailand? If so, what steps are being taken to eradicate this illegal and damaging activity. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the drop in lambing figures for March this year, which figures show a fall of 100 000 head in Tasmania alone? Because of our excellent autumn season, it has been claimed that the drop is due not to seasonal conditions but to the lack of fertiliser used by farmers which, of course, is a result of the enormous increase in the cost of this commodity despite the government subsidy. This comment is substantiated by the fact that in 1973-74 180 000 tonnes of superphosphate were used in Tasmania, whilst in 1975-76 only 58 000 tonnes were spread. Will the Minister investigate these claims, because if they are correct the long term repercussions to the industry and to Australia as a whole would be disastrous? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry seen reports of an increase in imports from New Zealand of dairy products, especially cheese varieties, of Sl.Sm and of paper and paper boards of nearly $22m over a 5-year period? In fact, the volume of New Zealand exports to Australia has increased by 160 per cent in that 5-year period. As many of these exports are heavily subsidised, can the Minister say whether this is in the spirit of the free trade agreement? 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Security. I am not sure whether it relates to her portfolio or to her capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Health. It has been reported that in some instances pensioners in the larger States have to wait up to 12 months for appointments to have their hearing tested before their applications for hearing aids can be considered. Can the Minister check to see whether this claim is correct? If it is, will the Minister investigate the possibility of allowing private practitioners to assist where backlogs exist? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Minister received reports that the Tasmanian Chamber of Commerce and the Tasmanian Chamber of Industries have dissociated themselves from a report by the Tasmanian Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Lowe,  on a meeting held following the national wage decision?  Mr Lowe  is reported as stating that it was the unanimous opinion of the meeting that it was not possible to maintain the voluntary pause in prices and wages and that it could only have continued had the Federal Government called a national conference of governments, business and union representatives. A joint statement put out by the meeting following that statement claimed that no such agreement had been reached but in fact the decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to grant a 1.9 per cent wage increase had caused the freeze to end. The meeting regretted that the Minister had used his position to misrepresent the decision of the meeting. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Transport. I know that the finalisation of the south bound freight equalisation scheme will be a very complex undertaking but can the Minister give any indication for Tasmanian industries as to when the list of eligible items will be announced? 
-Will the Minister for Science consider whether Flinders Island could be adopted as a trial area for testing new discoveries by Professor Messel, of the University of Sydney, in regard to the production of electricity from solar energy? As the Minister may be aware, the Flinders Island Council is most interested in solar energy. It has already installed a solar hot water system in its council chambers at a cost of $700, and the system is working most efficiently. 
-Can the Minister representing the Attorney-General give an assurance that under the new Legal Aid Commission legislation existing staff quotas at legal aid offices in each State will be maintained? 
-I would have thought that the purpose of consultation between the unions and employers and the Government was to achieve co-operation in the functioning of the National Labour Consultative Council and the Industrial Relations Bureau. The unions have agreed to abide by the principle of the Bureau.  Mr Hawke  recognised that penalties would be incurred, and he has agreed to them. The fact that the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations has disagreed with the whole principle of the penalties and with the Bureau from the beginning and, as  Senator Button  said tonight, still disagrees with the penalties in my opinion rules it out completely as a participant in the Council. The result of the consultation was agreement that the Bureau and the Council went hand in hand. 
I am reminded of the prices and wages freeze.  Mr Hawke  wanted to call a conference, but he wanted to go into that conference with decisions already made. The attitude of ACSPA is the same. Until ACSPA agrees that penalties ought to be incurred where necessary it has no place on the Council. It cannot come in with decisions already made. It is a consultative council and we want co-operation. 
I want to clear up this matter a little, because every time I have said that  Mr Hawke  accepts penalties,  Senator Georges  interrupts and says that he does not, and  Senator Cavanagh  has since disagreed with me too. I want to read to the Senate what  Mr Hawke  did say. He said:   . . we put two propositions for the earnest consideration of the Government. These propositions are put in the deeply held belief that confrontation and massive economic dislocation, if avoidable whilst still adhering to principle, is against the best interests of the Australian community. 
First, if the Governments wishes to put the responsibility for dealing with the existing pains and penalties and processes into the hands of a body which they wish to designate as an Industrial Relations Bureau- and there is no explicit or implicit addition to those existing provisions or processes- the Trade Union Movement, while regarding such a move as unnecessary, would offer no objection. 
To me that sounds very clearly as though he is saying that the Australian Council of Trade Unions would offer no objection to the penalties and processes that already exist in the hands of the Bureau. That is  Mr Hawke  's statement.  Mr Hawke  recognises that these penalties and provisions exist and that they are now in the hands of the Bureau, as they rightly should be. He says- it is here in black and white- that he has no objection to that. The Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations has such an objection, and that is why it is not included and the ACTU is. 
-Read the preceeding part. 
You are picking out bits and pieces. 
The original proposal for the IRB to act on its own initiative would represent further interference by Government in industry, in this case meddling in the industrial policies of business. 
It is true, as I have said, that the experiencenobody can confound this- from the great national disputes which we have had clearly indicates that recourse to the courts by Governments or by employers is not the most satisfactory. Disputes have been settled in the main by initiatives. In the past they were settled by the past  president  of the ACTU, Albert Monk, who played such a great role in the country's affairs, and presently they are settled by  Mr Hawke.  As I say, it is clear to everybody concerned, I suggest, that that is the way to settle disputes. The tougher line as proposed by the Government would not work. The Government has had to come down to a lesser point of view. The Labor Party takes the view that even that position is not good. 
Perhaps my views might be best expressed by reading what was in an editorial in the  Age  of 5 April 1977. Under the heading 'Cynical gamble in union bill,' the editorial reads: 
The industrial relations bill now before Federal Parliament bears a double imprint of the Prime Minister- of Fraser the ideologist and Fraser the tactician. 
A strong hand. Everybody said what a great thing it would be to have a strong hand, a man who will fight the unions. The editorial continues: 
Whether  Mr Fraser  has any or all of these considerations in mind must remain a matter of speculation. But if he does, then he is playing both a cynical and a dangerous game. The danger is that this legislation will cause more trouble than it resolves or than it is worth. Good industrial relations, after all, depend largely on a high degree of consensus between employers and unions. This innovation is not the result of consensus; it is something imposed by the Government with, at best, an unrealistically legalistic approach to the problem - 
The editorial goes on in those terms condemning the legislation. 
I take up the point with which I started when referring to  Senator Scott's  remarks. If the Government had decided that the situation was so grave in Australia that something had to be done it could have accepted the offer of Bob Hawke to talk with  Senator Scott  and they may have then come along with a proposal which could be accepted without rancour, without the threats which  Senator Scott  spoke about, and without stoppages. That is the way to play the employee-employer game in my opinion. It is true that the agreement which was proposed by the ACTU finally is not the same as is now presented in this Bill. Honourable senators will remember that as soon as it was announced in the Press that  Mr Street  and some other Ministers had met and decided that they would accept the ACTU proposal,  Mr Fraser  controverted what had been said. It took some days of discussion, by the ACTU and by the Press, to find out whether that Fraser opinion had been maintained. Finally, apparently, he gave in over some of the issues. 
We are faced again with the issues that always come up in arbitration Bills. We in the Australian Labor Party see the need for the continued observance of conciliation processes. We say that it is better to have the employers and the unions directly dealing with these matters. If the employers want to take action to fine the unions and to use the sanction powers under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. let them initiate action. They are experienced in these matters. We are opposed to these things and have tried to amend them. But why does the Government introduce legislation to set up this Bureau? I understand that even  Senator Wright,  in a most aggressively critical speech of the Government's proposal, has said that he does not agree with the amendment in respect of ministerial powers. What is proposed is bad. We think that this debate should be used to make sure that if there is any attempt by the Government, if this Bill is passed, and it looks like it will be passed, to renege on the agreement reached by  Mr Hawke  and his colleagues and the Minister, some action should be taken by this Parliament to correct it. We oppose the proposals but we support the National Labour Consultative Council Bill. 
-At the moment we are debating the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill. We have been given a lot of advice by Senators Button, Cavanagh and Bishop on how to run a responsible trade union movement and how to avoid strikes. If we look at the record of the Government which they supported we find that while it was in power an unprecedented number of manhours was lost- far more than has been lost under this Government. So I feel that their advice is not advice to which we should listen. They agreed that strikes are very detrimental not only to the unionists, the Government and the economy of Australia but also to the people generally. They followed up that statement by saying that penalties should not exist.  Senator Bishop,  to do him justice, said that all these things should be done by consultation. 

 Senator Bishop also said that in normal circumstances unionists do not take a very active part in their union meetings or their union affairs, but if there is a strike they unite. I point out to him that his memory is very short. I refer to the debacle of the Medibank strike, when  Mr Hawke  called for a nation-wide strike. What did we see as a result of that call for a nation-wide Medibank strike? The majority of unionists ignored completely the call of their union. They went to work. As a result of their going to work, tremendous intimidation was attempted. In some instances there was physical violence. 
In Telecom establishments. We know that; honourable senators opposite know that. 
-Of course they know it. Action was taken because of it.  Senator Bishop  did not like  Senator Scott  quoting from what  Mr Clyde  Cameron said about how the unions had threatened to bring Australia to its knees.  Senator Bishop  said that it was not done that way at all. Listening to  Senator Bishop,  I gathered the impression that he was saying that if the unions did not like the law they would not abide by it; that no penalties should exist; and that they would bring the country to its knees. That is not the way that this Government thinks that people generally should behave when it comes to the law. 
This Bill was introduced in the House of Representatives originally 2 months ago, on 3 1 March. I compliment the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on its introduction. It was brought in then to allow full consultation with all interested parties- all unionists, all union officials and all employers. I do not honestly believe that anyone could be critical of this democratic action by our Government. Yet  Senator Button  was not applauding that move but was saying that we succumbed to union pressure in desperation. I think they were the words he used. It is very unwise for  Senator Button  to compare the way in which the previous Government worked with the way in which our Government works. If the previous Government resorted to consultation because of pure desperation, we do not. That is not the way we do it. We do it as a right. 
Agreement was reached between the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the employers and the Government.  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Button  referred to that fact. I would like to read a little of the agreement. I will not take the time ofthe Senate by reading the whole of it.  Mr Hawke  agreed that, if the Government wished to put the responsibility for dealing with the existing pains and penalties and processes into the hands of a body which the Government wished to designate as the Industrial Relations Bureau, then the unions would offer no objection.  Senator Bishop  said that the employers did not agree with the Government, but agreed with the unions on this matter. If we read the whole of the agreement we find that the national employers were not in complete agreement with the unions and were not supporting the proposition put by them. The employers stressed that they thought it was in the best interests to retain strong enforcement provisions in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act.  Senator Bishop  omitted that part of the agreement, which is a small but rather vital part. He decided to omit it and to say that the employers were not in agreement with the Government. He did so to suit his purpose, I gather. 
However, it is very interesting to note that  Mr Hawke  agreed, for the first time, that penalties should exist. This is the great step forward in the whole of the consultation process and the whole of the purpose of this Bill. 
I certainly have. That is what comes out of his statement. The additional penalties of which  Senator Bishop  was talking are no longer included. The penalties which existed prior to the introduction of this Bill are the ones that are to be retained. Whilst some people may think that they are not adequate, I think that under this new Bureau they will be. From now on it will be a statutory organisation. These penalties will be able to be enforced and will have some teeth. The individual rights are being stood down, but only temporarily. They are to be brought in during the Budget session. The unions and  Mr Hawke  are well aware of this. The Minister made it clear that we are not putting them aside permanently. Following consultation with the National Labour Consultative Council, we will be bringing in the individual rights provisions in the Budget session. They have not been shelved permanently. 
The Industrial Relations Bureau has been retained in this Bill. As  Senator Bishop  said a little earlier, it will have the powers of the Arbitration Inspectorate, but it will be a statutory body.  Mr Hawke,  on behalf of the unions, agreed that they will now abide by a restructured National Labour Advisory Council. This is contrary to what they stated previously. This body is to be a statutory one. It is now to be called the National Labour Consultative Council. The membership of that Council will comprise the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations as  Chairman,  the Secretary to the Department, one member chosen by the Minister to represent public authority employers, 6 members nominated by the National Employers Policy Committee, 6 members nominated by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and one member nominated by the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations. The Council will consider national concern in any industrial relations matter. 
The Bureau is to have the same powers as the Arbitration Inspectorate. It is interesting to note those powers. The inspectors have been assigned powers to make inspections, examinations, investigations and inquiries and to interview people to determine whether the Act is being observed or whether an offence is suspected, and several other powers which are really very strong powers. I think  Senator Bishop  misunderstood the intention of the Government. He will find this section on page 9 of the annual report of the Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectorate. The Inspectorate also has this power: For the purpose of ascertaining whether awards and the requirements of this Act are being carried out, an inspector may at any time during working hours, or at any other time which is necessary for that purpose, enter without force a building, place, vessel, aircraft, vehicle, etc., on which he has reasonable cause to believe that work to which an award is or was applicable is being or has been performed or a place of business of any person in which he has reasonable cause to believe that there are books or documents relevant to that purpose. So that duty or power remains with the Industrial Relations Bureau. 
The inspector is required for the purposes of securing the observance of this legislation. The inspector is permitted to assist in a case before the court and give evidence if there has been a breach of the Act. He may give notice to require an offender to make good a default. As I said, these are very strong powers. Along with that  Mr Hawke  and the unions have agreed to the reconstruction of the National Labour Advisory Council. I am sure that the 2 bodies, the Industrial Relations Bureau and the reconstituted Council will prove a very effective force. In the past the inspector has dealt mainly with actions protecting the employees. One only has to look at his annual report to realise just how comprehensive that was. The Inspectorate conducted award inspections in 22 523 establishments involving 339 292 employees in the 1975-76 financial year. Inspectors found 3685 breaches involving deficiencies in payments to employees and 4571 non-monetary breaches involving, for example, failure to maintain proper time and wages records, adequate display of rosters, etc. Yet the annual report lists not one breach by employees alleged by employers. There is nothing in the list of duties of the Inspectorate that prohibits it from citing such breaches. In fact it has a completely even-handed approach. The new Bureau also will have a completely even-handed approach. It will however, no longer emphasise the duties of employers on behalf of employees. There is absolutely nothing in the new Bill to give the impression that it will. 
I have very little else to say on this Bill. We are pressed for time. I congratulate the Minister for 
Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on the outcome of this controversial piece of legislation. Full consultation has been entered into with a bit of give and take on both sides, not in desperation but within the true meaning of consultation. The legislation is now acceptable to both sides. I stress again that the individual rights of all the employees and employers have not been set aside. They will be preserved in legislation to be introduced in the Budget session after the National Labour Consultative Council has advised the Government on this subject. Once that has been done the legislation will fit in very clearly and closely with Liberal Party policy concerning individual rights and freedoms of our community. It is beyond me why the Opposition is so against individual rights and freedoms. That seems to be its main opposition to this Bill. It seems to be opposed to the unions in this respect. I must admit that it is rather unusual to see the Opposition and  Mr Hawke  sitting on opposite sides of the fence in this matter. I commend the Bill to the Senate and wish it a speedy passage. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Does the overseas section of the Australian Development Assistance Bureau intend to develop a program to assist underdeveloped countries in the education field? If so, will Australian teachers be needed? Could there be liaison between the Department of Education and the overseas section in respect of unemployed teachers so as to give these teachers the opportunity of serving for a period in the underdeveloped countries where their skills are needed? 
-We have just listened to the usual tirade from  Senator Walsh-  his hate campaign. It is a wonder it does not burn him up inside. It is exactly the same speech as he gave last year- apart from the stuff that he read out from the Industries Assistance Commission report- attacking Ministers, the National Country Party and farmers generally. He is a true farmer basher. 
-He is no farmer! He has insulted the commissioners. He has, of course, under Parliamentary privilege insulted the commissioners of the IAC by statements that Country Party members in the other place have leant on them. I expect  Senator Walsh  to have the courage of his convictions when the time comes for a vote. I expect him to defy his Caucus and vote against his Party. It will be very interesting to see whether he does. However,  Senator Walsh's  speech just sickens me. So I prefer to turn my attention to  Senator Douglas  McClelland 's speech. He has at least admitted that the Labor Party was wrong last year when it opposed the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty and also I gather it considers it was wrong in abolishing it at the end of 1 974.  Senator Douglas  McClelland did try to start one of those rumours that we were going to phase out the superphosphate bounty- very similar to the rumour that we were going to abolish the $ 1 6 a day private hospital bed assistance. We have had these rumours; we know them well. We can only tell the public to wait to see what happens; not to take any notice of these rumours. 
The history of the superphosphate bounty is very interesting to follow. It is stated here in the IAC report that superphosphate has meant a lot to the Australian agriculture industry ever since the end of the nineteenth century, and from 1 93 1 onwards except for 16 years there has been a bounty or assistance in some way. As the IAC report says, when the first Phosphate Fertilizer Bounty Act was introduced in 1963, the objects of the bounty were stated to be to encourage the most economic use of agricultural resources, stimulate pasture improvement and to help increase productivity and the expansion of rural production. Those objects are as justified today as they were in 1963. I would like honourable senators opposite to look at a few facts because these are facts, not just opinions. I mention Australian soil deficiency. We know that there are vast areas of land in Australia that are deficient not only in phosphate but also in sulphur.  Senator Walsh  said last year that he had no idea what soil fertility or soil health meant. 
If you have a look at the  Hansard  of last year at page 1060 you will find that  Senator Walsh  said: 
. soil fertility or soil health, whatever that means . . . 
It means that  Senator Walsh  had no idea and has said he has no idea about soil fertility, soil health or whatever that may mean. 
Page 6 of the IAC report shows that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation says there is such a thing. The report reads: 
CSIRO said that, in addition to phosphorous, there was a very high incidence of sulphur deficiency in Australian soils 
. Sulphur deficiency is . . . far more . . . serious than previously realised . . . 
It says that sulphur deficiences are very common in soils used for pasture. The CSIRO contends that the application of artificial fertilisers, of which the phosphatic fertiliser is the most important and widely used, has greatly assisted the development of Australian agriculture. We know that there are still wide areas of bush land that would benefit from the application of superphosphate. That is one fact. The Australian soil needs it. The second fact is- I am sure that  Senator McLaren  will agree with me- that primary producers are and have been for some time going through rather hard times. I would like to cite a few figures of their incomes. In 1973-74 their average income was $ 1 5,902. The next year it dropped to $9,672. The next year it dropped further to $9,194. This financial year it dropped still further to $6,545, because the farmer cannot keep up with the high wages. 
-They are net figures. 
They include interest on capital. It is their whole investment. That is what they get back for the thousands of dollars they have invested. What other business could possibly stand that declining rate of income? I would say none. Those are 2 facts. Another fact that the report stressed was that superphosphate needs a build-up if it is to do any good for the soil. A level has to be reached. This happens over several years, and if the farmer does not apply superphosphate for three or four years he may not notice much difference until there is a sudden, dramatic fall-off in productivity. It can be very deceiving. Following a lack of superphosphate, one will see a great drop in productivity after 4 years. These are not opinions; they are facts. 
I am sure that all honourable senators opposite realise that we are a country of primary produce. We are primary producers first. We need fertile soil. We need it to keep our domestic prices down. We need it for our productivity. We need it also for our exports. 
-That is right. The exports have gone way up in the last year, since we devalued, and the honourable senator knows it. 
-That is right; but we are selling more. 
-That was over the meat Bill. The New South Wales Department of Agriculture stated the position clearly. The IAC report states: 
The New South Wales Department of Agriculture said that, on some soils in the State, farmers could reduce fertiliser application for up to 4 years-  that is what I have been saying-  before any marked reduction in output would be experienced. 
Many other witnesses claimed that rapid deterioration followed straight after that. The report also said: 
. many farmers, wishing to increase the productivity of land, apply heavy dressings of phosphatic fertilisers ... to build up a bank of phosphorus in the soil. 
All these things are facts. Rural industries have made and are still making a large and valuable contribution to Australian exports. Where would Australia be without them? The IAC report stressed that the bounty should be continued for the best and most efficient use of Australia's resources. This is because assistance should go to the least costly of the industries. We find these industries mentioned on page 26 of the report. 
The major phosphate-using industries are the cereals, wheat, wool, sheepmeat, beef and dairy products industries. The greatest of them is wheat. 
The report then goes on to explain that they are the least costly of all Australian industries. It says that the beef industry is assisted at the rate of 4 per cent, and the wheat industry at between 5 per cent and 10 per cent. Assistance to the wool industry also is very low, but the figure for that industry is not given. Evidently the IAC had its difficulties. The only industry which received a high rate of protection was the dairy industry, with a rate of assistance of 40 per cent; but the report pointed out that the dairy industry used only 10 per cent of phosphatic fertiliser anyway. Let us compare that with the rates of assistance for other industries in Australia. The automobile industry has an effective protection rate of 42 per cent- roughly the same as the dairy industry. However, the shipbuilding industry goes up to 74 per cent and the clothing industry to 7 1 per cent. So, I do not feel that the rural industries are doing very well when compared with those other industries. I think most farmers will agree that they are the only people in Australia who sell on the wholesale market but buy on the retail market. 
I turn now to the prices of superphosphate in the past few years. I will take the price rises during the period of the bounty from 1964 onwards. In 1964 the bounty was $5.9 1 a tonne and the average cost to the farmer was $13.65, the bounty being 30 per cent of the total cost of superphosphate. 
They were well preWhitlam days. 
-Just be patient and I will tell the Senate what happened in the Whitlam days. That was in 1964. Ten years later, in 1974, the bounty had risen to $1 1.81 and the average price to the farmer was still only $15.87. The bounty was 42.7 per cent of the total cost. That was still quite reasonable. Six months later, on 1 July 1974, the price had more than doubled. The bounty was still $1 1.81; but the price to the farmer had risen from $15.87 to $35.23. It had risen by over 120 per cent. The bounty was then 25.1 per cent of the total cost. Six months later, at the end of 1974, the price went up nearly another $18. The price to the farmer then was $54.78. In a year it had gone from $15.87 to $54.78. It was then that the Labor Government decided to abolish the bounty. 
-Thank you very much. So, at the end of 1974 the farmer was paying $54.78 a tonne, with no bounty at all. At the end of 1975, when we came into office farmers were paying $64.50 a tonne for superphosphate. We reintroduced the bounty. I think that it is not enough at the present rate of $11.81 a tonne. Farmers are still paying $52.28 a tonne and the bounty is 1 9.6 per cent of the total price. 
Naturally, the rate of consumption has fallen. In 1973-74, 4.1 million tonnes were used. In 1975-76, the amount had dropped to nearly half. It was 2.5 million tonnes. It would have been less if we had not brought in the bounty half way through the year, because 1.8 million tonnes was attributed to the bounty being paid. In Tasmania, in 1973-74, 180 000 tonnes were used. In 1975-76, 58 000 tonnes were used. What would such a reduction in the use of superphosphate do to the soils of Australia? There would be no growth. We would not be able to use our bushland. The soil would no longer be fertile. It appears to me that the 4 Labor senators who are present are ridiculing this Bill. 
-Yes, you are. You are poking fun at the plight of the farmers. It would be most interesting to know what the farmers think of your attitude. You are poking fun at this Bill and carrying on as if it were a big joke. I am quite sure that if you were in the position in which they are- if you watched your income fall from $15,000 to $6,000-you would not be sitting there poking fun. You would be feeling a little sorry for yourself and attempting to do something about the position. The bounty to the average farmer is worth $470 a year. Compare that with the position in other industries in New South Wales. They are not doing so well.  Senator Walsh  talked about the bounty to the poorer farmers being equal to 4 per cent of their net income and about the upper three-fifths of farmers getting back 2.5 per cent. He can twist those figures around to show that the wealthier farmers are doing much better than the poorer ones. I cannot imagine how he can do that, but he is quite capable of doing anything along those lines. 
The efficiency of rural industry cannot be disputed. I do not think honourable senators opposite are attempting to do so. If one refers to the 
IAC report one finds that even by world standards our industries are doing very well. They are very efficient industries. A lot of experimentation is going on in respect of lower grade rocks, particularly the C grade rock from the Christmas Islands. If successful, it will give us far cheaper fertiliser. In accordance with the recommendations of the IAC, the bounty is being extended to apply to the production of crushed and calcinated rock, phosphate rock and phosphatic substances for use as stock food. 
I remind the Senate of a few of the figures that I gave last year when I pointed out that Australians pay a lot less for their food than people in any of the other developed countries do. I quoted the cost of a basket of food, expressed in American dollars. The only country that came within cooee of us was Canada. The other countries, the United States of America, England, France, Italy, West Germany and New Zealand, paid far more for their food than we did. It illustrates to me very clearly the efficiency of our rural industries. If we upset the balance of our soil by not encouraging farmers to keep up the fertility of the land through spreading super, we deserve to pay twice as much for our food, as West Germany does. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. I hope that  Senator Walsh  will have the courage of his convictions and that he will defy his Caucus and vote against the Bill. We will see whether he does. 
-Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen this week's report from the  Chairman  of the Australian Finance Conference that the annual rate of inflation, after allowing for Medibank changes, had fallen by about 5 per cent over the last year? 
-Can the Minister equate that statement with statements we have heard this week from members of the Opposition?  Senator Georges  is going on about it now. 
I am interested in 2 matters. I would like to say a few words on them. I notice that in clause 3 of the Bill the definition of 'approved pathology practitioner' is amended to include the Commonwealth. This has been an injustice for many years in my State. Private pathologists have had to compete against Commonwealth Health Laboratories in Hobart and Launceston which have provided these services completely free of charge. This resulted in the private pathologists in those States charging the medical benefit return only and as this in itself was lower than the refund in many of the mainland States, the injustice was multiplied. The position has now been corrected and the Commonwealth Health Laboratories must now charge a fee for service. So, there will be fair competition between the Laboratories and the private practitioners. This is a great step forward. 
The second matter to which I refer relates to proposed sub-section 4B (2). The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  in her second reading speech, foreshadowed a new schedule of fees for pathology services. This is the first step in equalising the schedules of medical fees throughout Australia. As the schedules stand at present, the schedule fees in the smaller States are far lower than the schedule fees in the larger States. As the Medibank levy is a national levy and is the same for taxpayers in each State, it is a great injustice that patients in my State of Tasmania receive back from the national levy far less benefit than the patients in the larger States receive. I shall give 2 examples. The first example relates to a pathology service which is a sedimentation rate. The pathologist's schedule fee in New South Wales is $5.50 and the benefit to the patient is $4.70. The Tasmanian schedule fee is $3.50 and the benefit to the patient is $3. So, honourable senators can see how much less patients receive from the national levy. 
They do not get exactly the same, as the honourable senator knows only too well. The cost of providing the service in pathology practice in Tasmania is far greater than that in the larger  States.  In Tasmania pathologists still have to have all the expensive equipment. It has to be available. But the quantity of services is so much less. This adds to the cost of each service. There is the same discrepancy in regard to most of the other specialist medical fees. For another medical service the schedule fee for the whole of New South Wales- that is country areas as well as the cities- is $ 1 60 and the benefit is $155. In Tasmania the specialist is allowed to charge as his schedule fee $1 10 and the patient gets back only $105. The benefit is $50 less. The same service with a general practitioner in New South Wales costs $120 and the benefit is $115. In Tasmania the fee is $95 and the benefit is $90. 
There is no justification for these discrepancies, where in a smaller State the specialist schedule fee not only is less than the general practitioner fee but also is less than the benefit the patient of a general practitioner receives in respect of his schedule fee in the larger States. I ask honourable senators to remember that this situation applies to all country areas in New South Wales as well as to the capital city. The result is that specialists in the smaller States are charging more than the schedule fee and the patient who is paying the national Medibank levy has to pay the extra amount out of his own pocket. I am pleased to see that the Government has recognised these anomalies, even though this is only the first step in the equalisation process. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Why are imported artistic photographs liable for customs duties and sales tax while etchings, to give an example of a comparable art form, are exempt ? 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs been drawn to the answer that the Opposition spokesman on economic management gave to the accusation that the advertisement inserted by the Australian Labor Party in the daily paper of 1 1 August should be considered a breach of the truth in advertising section of the Trade Practices Act? Is the answer an admission that the Labor Party does not consider it necessary to abide by truth in advertising? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health explain why Medibank Private in Tasmania uses the Bank of New South Wales branch at the White Horse Plaza, Box Hill, Victoria, for payments of its refunds? Why is this banking business taken out of Tasmania? While the cheque is stamped exempt from stamp duty', does Medibank Private pay the necessary double duty for interstate traffic? 
-A tremendous degree of heat and emotion has been generated over the uranium inquiry. I do not believe that it is fair to say that the debate has not been extensive. We have had debate in both Houses of the Parliament. It has been debated on television and on radio. It has been debated in every paper in the country. There have been demonstrations. There have been debates at schools throughout the whole of the community. The Friends of the Earth have been putting forward one side of the argument and the Uranium Producers Forum has been putting the other side. I believe that if we look at the Fox report, which is perhaps the most comprehensive report available and the most unbiased report, then we are not doing too badly. We have heard Opposition supporters quoting from all sorts of sources but I do suggest that we should keep to the Fox report. If honourable senators on both sides did that then the debate would have some meaning. 
I would like to look as this subject in a most unemotional way because I am an unemotional person. The first reactor has been working for 35 years now and that is something of which I do not believe the majority of the community are aware. We have had the first reactor working for 35 years. The first commercial reactor has been working for 2 1 years. 
I have a paper here. I will let you know. 
It has been working for 2 1 years without any problems, as you say,  Senator. The  first uranium ore was mined 66 years ago in 1 9 1 1 , so let us get this in perspective. 
It was uranium ore as we know it now- not the Madame Curie type, et cetera, but uranium ore as we know it now. Let us get this in perspective. The country has known - 
I direct my question also to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the confusion and contradiction going on in the Opposition Party over economic matters? Can the Minister verify that, as in the past, there appears to be no firm Labor economic policy? Whilst we have the Opposition spokesman on economic affairs saying that Labor is not committed to personal tax indexation, we have the Opposition shadow Treasurer assuring the public that the Labor Party at its National Conference endorsed personal tax indexation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Can the Minister indicate how many employers have taken advantage of the Special Youth Employment Training program? How many young people have been trained or are training under this scheme? How many of these young people have found permanent employment following their training? 
-Can the Minister for Education say what function the Schools Commission has in the area of the arts in education? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, follows a question that was asked yesterday by  Senator Archer  in relation to the dispute involving the port of Burnie. As the Tasmanian Minister for Labour and Industry has not succeeded in his appeal for the Australian Council of Trade Unions to intervene in the present demarcation dispute between the Transport Workers Union and the Waterside Workers Federation tying up the whole of the northern coast of Tasmania, can the Minister suggest any action the Commonwealth Government can take to help to bring this dispute to an end? The dispute, if allowed to continue next week, will result in food shortages in Launceston. Already it has resulted in two large companies, the Australian Pulp and Paper Mills and Tioxide Australia Pty Ltd threatening closure with the resultant laying off of thousands of employees. Many other businessmen have also threatened closure. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Can the Minister say what steps are being taken to prevent the poaching by foreign fishing vessels of the stocks of giant clams on the Great Barrier Reef? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Will the Minister give the closing date for claims for assistance to primary producers under the southbound freight equalisation scheme for goods purchased in that retrospective period after 1 July 1976 and before 1 July 1977? 
I would like to talk on just two aspects of the Budget: The first is the general maintaining of our policy of reducing inflation and the second is the continual Government care and concern for those in greatest need. The Budget was brought down just three weeks ago, and I think it is appropriate that we have another look at some of the statements the media brought out at that time. The  Australian Financial Review  said: 
It should be quickly said that the Budget as outlined by  Mr Lynch  is in itself a safe and responsible one. 
The  Sydney Morning Herald  said: 
When it is remembered that the trading banks represent the main source of credit for small businesses, it can be seen that the prospect of lower interest rates and freer bank lending represent the most expansionary aspect of the Budget's economic strategy. But this expansionary prospect has been achieved responsibly, by reducing the deficit, not by letting the money supply blow out. 
The  Daily Telegraph  said: 

 Mr Lynch 's new streamlined tax system will give everyone a fatter pay packet but, most importantly, those at the lower end of the pay scale- pensioners and others on fixed incomes- stand to benefit more than the fat cats. 
The  Daily Telegraph  went on to say: 
Rightly,  Mr Lynch  sees inflation control as the Government's chief concern. 
He has kept a tight rein on Government spending and refuses to be sucked into dispensing large sums in gimmickry give-aways for non-productive areas of the economy. 
It is true that the Government has not indulged in the gimmickry give-aways that the Opposition indulged in during its term of office. I would like now to look at what policy came out of the Perth conference of the Opposition. It has continued to indulge in free spending. Its desire to be the last of the big time spenders has been outlined by  Mr Hurford.  No restraint was suggested by  Mr Hurford.  I would like to quote a few passages of the speeches given at that conference.  Mr Hurford  said: 
The objectives I have described are ambitious. There are no simple means of achieving them. There are no simple ways of increasing revenue. We are dependent for increased tax revenue on the growth of the economy and on the introduction of a secondary profit tax on resource based industries. 
That is, higher company tax and indirect taxation.  Mr Hurford  suggested that personal tax indexation should be maintained, but we found that being defeated by  Mr McBride  in an amendment that he put forward. I will read what he said in putting forward that amendment. I am quite sure that honourable senators will find it most interesting. 
This amendment wants to make it quite clear that the Labor Party's economy policy is not committed to full indexation As a socialist party in the long run we clearly, if we are endeavouring to emulate the lead given to us by the socialist countries of the Northern Hemisphere, can only achieve those objectives if we are prepared to pay the same level of tax as they are. 
So the policy of the Opposition is still one of big time spending and increases in taxes- personal, company and indirect taxes. That was summed up by the  Bulletin  rather clearly when it said: 
Last week in Perth the Party's national conference went the rest of the way to electoral disaster by promising all Australians all the things they do not want right now-higher taxes, even stronger unions, more bureaucrats, less security, and a whole heap of way-out nonsense. 
I really feel that that very clearly describes the policy that the Opposition would have brought in if it had been in power instead of this Government. As I have said, the Government's concern to reduce the rate of inflation has been reflected in this Budget. We all know that under the Labor Government inflation reached an all time high of 18 per cent in the March quarter of 1975. Under the policy of the Liberal-Country Party Government it dropped to 10.2 per cent in March 1977. 1 would like to quote from the remarks of a few people and organisations in this regard. The Master Builders Federation of Australia said: 
The Government's policies over the last 21 months have led to a significant stabilisation in cost pressures in the industry. In the 12 months to July 1977 the cost of materials used on house building rose by 9.8 per cent and on building other than house building, by 9. 1 per cent. This contrasts with rates of increase of over 20 per cent in 1974-75. 
I emphasise those figures of 20 per cent and 9. 1 per cent. In an extract from the annual report for 1976-77 of the Australian Finance Conference the  Chairman  of the Conference said: 1 1 seems to Conference that there has been a considerable measure of success over the past year in curbing inflation and thereby encouraging growth in real activity. This success must be sustained and Conference wholeheartedly supports the Commonwealth Government's resolve to continue to give this first priority. 
The annual rate of inflation (after allowing for the various Medibank changes) has reduced by around 5 per cent over the past year; in the same period there has been continued economic growth in real terms. 
Perhaps it would be best to remind those people who believe that the recovery in the economy has not been as fast as they would like that it takes a silly donkey two minutes to kick down a barn door but it takes a skilled carpenter several hours to rebuild and replace that door. 
The Government is showing continual concern for those in need. Prior to the introduction of the Budget all sorts of rumours were floating around. Rumours were floated around by the Opposition that there would be cuts in the welfare field and that in point of fact there had been cuts in the education field. I might add that there has been a 10 per cent increase m expenditure in the technical education field. These sorts of rumours continued to go round. They were all proved wrong. Not only were they proved wrong but also the welfare area was extended. The handicapped children's allowance of $15 a week was extended. I believe that this was a very deserving area. In many low income areas there are children who do not come under the severely handicapped criteria but who are on continuous diets that are very costly to their parents. Under the extension of the handicapped children's allowance scheme those children will be able to be catered for up to an amount of $15 a week. That will be at the discretion of the Director-General of the Department of Social Security. I congratulate the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on being able to bring in this measure during these particularly difficult times. I am quite sure that those parents who will be able to take advantage of this measure will consider it to be a very great step forward. 
The next area in the social welfare field to be extended is the area involving the rehabilitation of disabled housewives. Up till now those who have been able to accept such rehabilitation have been only those who have been able to be returned to the work force. This extension is something that the women of Australia have been seeking for quite some time. I have attended many meetings in the rehabilitation area at which people have been pushing for the women who work in the home- the wives and mothers -to be able to enter the Commonwealth rehabilitation centres at no cost to themselves and take advantage of the facilities provided. This extension will be a geat blessing to my State because the  Sir Douglas  Parker Rehabilitation Centre, to which the Commonwealth Government is contributing along with the State Government, will be able to introduce these women to this area. I believe that this is a great step forward. Another area is pensions generally. Pensions will be increased again in November. The married pension rises by $3.75 to $82.20 a week. The single pension goes up $2.20 to $49.30 a week. The majority of pensioners receiving the full rate of pension will be excluded from tax- 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General, either in that capacity or as Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Can the Minister say what action, if any, can be taken against groups advertising false information in the course of the uranium debate? I am referring in particular to the advertisement in the Hobart  Mercury  last week headed 'Uranium- More Tasmanians say No'. The signatories arc headed by  Mr Doug  Lowe, the Labor Minister for Health in Tasmania. There are eight sentences, each attributed to the Fox report, but in point of fact this is untrue. For example, the first sentence, which reads  . . that the world-wide distribution of uranium - ' 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. Can the Minister say whether it is true that a $30m Commonwealth building project in Victoria has had to be closed down due to industrial disruption in that industry and that the closure has meant the loss of up to 150 jobs on that work site alone? 
When this debate was interrupted last week, I was pointing out the Government's concern shown m the Budget in the areas of social welfare. I mentioned the extension of the handicapped children's allowance and the rehabilitation of disabled housewives. I pointed out that from the first pay-day in November pensions would go up again. I said that the married pension was to increase by $3.70 to $82.20 a week and that the single pension was to increase by $2.20 to $49.30 a week. I remind the community that there is no means test on age pensions for people 70 years of age and over and that the only means test on other age pensions are income tests. Under the new taxation scheme introduced in the Budget the majority of full pensioners will not have to pay tax. The minimum taxable income is being increased now to $3,750. A married person with a dependent spouse for whom he may claim a taxation rebate of $555 can now earn income of $5,485 before paying tax. This will be a great improvement and will help pensioners in particular a considerable amount. 
I speak now about the unemployment benefit. We have seen in the Press today a report that the Auditor-General has said that the Department of Social Security made payments of unemployment benefit totalling $40m that were not warranted. When the Government points out that people who are paid benefits to which they were not entitled do not return them, it is accused of bashing the unemployed. If it mentions anything about the unions, it is accused of union bashing. I wish to point out just a few facts about the payment of unemployment benefit. The Government has instituted the payment of unemployment benefit two weeks in arrears. According to the Auditor-General, this should avoid a repetition of at least some of the $40m which has been paid out incorrectly. Much criticism has come from the Opposition of the payment being made two weeks in arrears, but all wages are paid in arrears. If any hardships is being experienced by the unemployed, the measures already available to them will still be available and they will be paid accordingly. 
I want to comment on remarks made by  Mr Uren,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, just before the Budget was introduced. He pointed out very clearly that he considered that the Federal Government should provide for a large increase in government spending in the building area, and he Went on to say that economic recovery in the non-residential building and construction area depended on the forthcoming budget. He said that a large increase in government spending was needed in the Budget for recovery to take place in this sector. He also said that it was possible for the Government to spend more, particularly on government construction projects, to get the industry out of its deep-seated recession. I dare say that if I were to mention anything about the unions engaged in this sector I would be accused of union bashing.  Mr Uren  pointed out very clearly that the building area needs a boost, yet in Victoria at the moment $469m worth of building is being held up by industrial disputes, Commonwealth Government, State Government and private enterprise projects are being held up by industrial disputes. Industrial disputation is occurring in all areas. There are not only strikes, there are also illegal  smokos,  claims for a 35-hour week, bans on overtime, the movement of equipment and interruptions to cement pours. When confronted with these facts  Mr Gallagher  said that there had been only one interruption. 
-I am surprised to hear  Senator O'Byrne  call them lazy loafers, but if that is his term for describing those engaged in the building industry it is fair enough. When it was pointed out to  Mr Gallagher  that cement pours had also been included in the disruptions he said that there had been only one disruption in that regard and that was in Victoria, but I know that in Tasmania there was also an interrupted cement pour. It held up work on a joint Commonwealth-State building. A $15m project at the Royal Hobart Hospital was held up for a month when 70 men went on strike. That is the type of thing that has been going on in the building industry for some time. 
-I will tell  Senator Cavanagh  the cause of the strike. A cement pour was in process when the men were due to go off work. They refused to work overtime. The cement pour was half completed. According to the construction engineers it certainly would have been detrimental to the building not to have continued the cement pour at that stage. So other people on the project continued the cement pour for the safety of the project. This resulted in a demarcation dispute.  (Quorum formed)  Obviously the Opposition did not like the answer I was giving to  Senator Cavanagh  and attention was drawn to the state of the House.  Senator Cavanagh  had asked me the cause of the strike at the Hobart building site and I had said that a cement pour had been interrupted at the end of a day's work and that the men had refused to work an extra hour to finish the cement pour, and that because the construction engineers decided that it would be detrimental to the safety of the building if the pour was not completed the other people on the site continued the pour. So there was a demarcation dispute in Hobart that lasted exactly a month. Seventy men were on strike. They held up a combined Commonwealth-State project worth $ 1 5 m. 
Let us look at the other industrial disputes that have occurred in the building industry which, according to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, needs such a boost. A $30m Commonwealth project in Victoria has just been abandoned because of industrial disputes. The Commonwealth has given up and abandoned the whole job. That project catered for the jobs of 150 men, yet the Commonwealth has had to give up the whole project because of the disputes. Industrial disputes have affected another project worth $ 1 30m and capable of providing jobs for up to 1,850 people. Those are the sorts of things going on at the moment. If there were no industrial disturbances in the building area I should not think for one moment that there would be much need for a government boost. If there was nearly $500m worth of projects it would automatically follow that there would be a substantial boost to the economy but that is being delayed by industrial disputes. 
-Yes, it does. If these disputes were not taking place on these projects, there probably would be not only more jobs but also extra money in the economy. I congratulate the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on the efforts he has made to overcome the unemployment situation. He has done so by, firstly, extending the special youth employment scheme to cover 25-year olds. 
-Senator Cavanagh has complained about this scheme before. I remember him saying that it is an extension of youth employment and will only - 
He says that there is nowhere to put them once they have been trained yet, according to the figures for the six months in which it has been going, nearly 70 per cent of those who have been trained have been placed in employment with the employers training them or they have found other jobs. That disproves the comments by  Senator Cavanagh.  The National Employment and Training scheme also has been expanded. During the term of office of the Labor Government only 10,658 people were employed under the NEAT scheme. As of this year 1976-77 nearly 40,000 people are employed under the NEAT scheme. I know that they are not earning as much under the NEAT scheme as they were when it was administered by the previous Government, but they are at least employed. We have employed nearly four times as many people. I remember when we changed the NEAT scheme - 
Debate interrupted. 
-My question is directed to  Senator Durack  as the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Has the Minister seen the report that management and unions in Japan's Honda motor company have agreed to forgo four days holiday during the next seven weeks to increase car and motorcycle production to meet foreign demands? Does he believe that similar cooperation between union and management would be possible in Australia and, if so, could this be an answer to our present economic problems? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health say what proportion of all pharmaceutical prescriptions was for sedatives and what proportion was for tranquilisers? Has the percentage in each instance increased or decreased? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Can the Minister inform the chamber of any plans the Government has following the announcement by the United Nations that 1978 will be the Year of the Child? 
My question also is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Has the Minister seen the claim by the Tasmanian Minister for Health,  Mr Lowe,  that the Federal Government has not given to Tasmania the estimated $108,000 from the 1976-77 Budget to be applied to senior citizens centres under the States Grants (Home Care) Act? Can the Minister throw some light on this statement? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of statements by the Tasmanian Minister for Health,  Mr Lowe,  that the Commonwealth dishonours promises concerning the funding of school dental schemes? Can the Minister say whether or not these statements are true? 

 -Mr President - 
As  Senator Georges  would know, my contribution to this debate has developed into an ongoing saga. Like  Senator Cavanagh  's contribution my comments have taken many days. 
1 seem to have been going on now for months. When the debate was adjourned nearly three weeks ago I was talking about the unemployment problem. When the Liberal-National Country parties came to government in 1975 we found that the unemployment figure at that time was 328,705. That was a considerable number of people unemployed. It was a great problem then, and the Opposition, which was then in power, did not know how to cope with it. However, the Opposition now tells us that it does. It says that it has the answers and that it could cope with that extraordinarily large figure. It has been very critical of this Government's inability to lower that figure. One of the answers that the Opposition had at that stage was to pay more than $90 per week to those people employed under the National Employment and Training scheme. At that time this scheme was helping 10,658 people. This Government has since expanded the NEAT scheme and is assisting nearly four times as many people- nearly 40,000 people. Whilst the Government is not paying them as much as the former government did under its lesser scheme, nearly four time as many people are employed. 
I can remember that when funds for the NEAT scheme were reduced the Government received quite a bit of correspondence and quite a few complaints. The complaints hinged around the fact that the people employed under the NEAT scheme were no longer able to meet their mortgage payments or payments under the hire purchase agreements that they had entered into. I am sure that it was never the intention of the government at that time that taxpayers' money should be spent on making these large payments to enable people to meet mortgage and hire purchase commitments. All honourable senators know that a considerable number of people are unemployed. We are aware also that some employers are finding it increasingly difficult to find unskilled labour for all areas. In the State of Tasmania growers of soft fruit in the Huon area are finding it increasingly difficult to get pickers for that soft fruit. It is a seasonal job but people will not go and pick soft fruit. Some heavy equipment manufacturers are also having difficulty in getting unemployed people to do heavy labouring jobs. This is increasingly so of young people. I can understand this to a large extent. Being a mother I am quite sure that I would say to my young son when he left school: 'Do not take the first job available. Make sure you get a good job'. Teachers too are saying to children as they leave school: 'Make sure you get the best job you can. It could be for the rest of your life and it must be interesting for you '. 
So, we find children leaving school, often with a higher expectation than their capabilities warrant. They are prepared, perhaps, to stay on unemployment benefits while looking for the job that they consider they are capable of doing. They will not go and pick soft fruit. This is understandable. They fear that if they accept this lesser job, if they go on the production line and do heavy labouring or soft fruit picking, they will not be available when that better job turns up. As such, I believe that we have quite a problem to overcome. The scheme which I have put to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and which I sincerely hope he will look at is that the children who leave school and who are prepared to do the less attractive jobs, the labouring jobs, while they are waiting for the job of their choice ought to be given priority over those children who are not prepared to go out and do just any job and are willing to sit around and wait for the job of their choice to come up. I believe that a very large computer is now being made available to officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service. According to the Minister this could perhaps cope with the system. I am sure that it can be an answer. I sincerely hope that the Minister will look at this matter. 
As I have said, this has been a long and drawn out speech. I will not detain the Senate any further, except to congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on his presentation of the Budget Papers. They were acclaimed by the whole of the Press when they first came out as being very forward thinking and in line with the general thrust of our endeavour to keep down inflation. I commend the Budget to the Senate. 
-Has the attention of the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs been drawn to the terms of the Tasmanian State Budget brought down by the retiring Premier and Treasurer,  Mr Neilson,  on 1 September 1977? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the reasons why the Tasmanian Premier was able to achieve a surplus in 1976-77 which he described as a wholly satisfying and gratifying result? Is the 1977-78 Tasmanian Budget further evidence of the wholly satisfying and gratifying result of the Fraser Government's new federalism policy? 
-We are debating the motion that 'The Government's disregard of increasing unemployment', is a matter of urgency. This is political action by the Opposition, and it certainly lacks sincerity. Let us look at the history of unemployment. In January 1974 when the present Opposition was in power there were 121,082 people unemployed, 2.1 per cent of the work force. A year later, in January 1975, that number had risen from 121,082 to 3 1 1,000 which was 5.2 percent of the work force. A year later, in January 1976, it had gone up to 5.6 per cent of the work force which meant that nearly 350,000 people were unemployed. The Opposition is telling us that we are disregarding the increase in unemployment. In the last two years of the Opposition's reign the number of unemployed people increased by 222,857. It had increased by 3.5 per cent and had reached 5.6 per cent of the work force; and the Opposition is now telling us that we are disregarding unemployment. Since we came into power the number of persons unemployed has gone up by 0.2 per cent. 
It has not increased more than that. 
If you got your figures from the Parliamentary Library - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  Order!  Senator Walters,  you should address the Chair. 
You will find,  Mr Acting Deputy President  that unemployment has increased by 0.2 per cent since we have been in office. Unemployment has increased under this Government by 10,550 in one year compared to 222,857 in the last two years of the Labor Government's reign. 
-Let us look at this in perspective. These are the figures I have just quoted clearly, and they are quite accurate. Yet, the Opposition is saying that we are disregarding unemployment. Let us look at the reasons for that tremendous increase in those last two years. Firstly, inflation went up. It rose sky high. Wages went up and, as has already been stated here today, even  Mr Cameron  then said: 'Well, if they go up much more, every time there is an increase in wages, one man's pay rise is another man's job'. 
The Labor Government also cut tariffs. Tariffs were reduced right across the board and this threw thousands of people out of work. It is no wonder that unemployment figures increased by 222,857 in two years. I repeat that tariffs were reduced right across the board. I am not referring to overseas countries. The Opposition cannot blame overseas trends for this increase in unemployment. It was a direct result of the actions of the Labor Government. If honourable senators examine  Mr Cameron  's speech in  Hansard  of 1 7 October 1974 they will find that he admits this. When referring to the National Employment and Training scheme that the Labor Government set up he pointed out that it was set up for persons rendered redundant by the Government's actions, such as tariffs cuts. He pointed out very clearly that the actions of the Labor Government of that day, in relation to tariff cuts was one of the major reasons for the NEAT scheme coming into being. The major reason for the Labor Government bringing in a NEAT scheme was to try to put some of these people back into a job. 
I should like to examine that NEAT scheme because there were only two schemes that the Labor Government brought in for all those unemployed people and one of them was the NEAT scheme. At that stage the Government was paying people $96.80 a week under the NEAT scheme. This was supposed to be the average adult award wage. It was assisting about 10,600 people. Out of that additional number of unemployed people of about 222,000 the Labor Government was assisting only 10,658 people in 1975-76. It provided assistance only for those people who could really work the system- the intelligent people in our society. The people who could work the system got the greatest advantage out of it. We find that out of those accepted for the scheme 5,000 were professional or semiprofessional people and 188 were unskilled people. The NEAT scheme was a rip-off for those who could work the system. 
I believe that when  Mr Cameron  realised the damage he was causing he tried valiantly to overcome the problems with guidelines but they did not work. In March 1976, after we came into power only 25 per cent of the people training under the NEAT scheme were being trained in in-plant operations. The rest were being trained in all sorts of professional and semi-professional occupations. In November of that year, just a few months after we had been in power, 68 per cent of people in the NEAT scheme were then employed in in-plant training. By August of this year it had increased to 80 per cent. In other words, 80 per cent of the people in the NEAT scheme are now employed in in-plant training. 
I am asked what the figure is. The figure when we came - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-Order! 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTOrder! I called for order and when I do that I expect to be respected. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I have been asked what the figure is. I will be very happy to answer that question because when we came into office, as I said earlier, 10,658 people were being helped. Only 25 per cent of those were being helped with in-plant training; all the rest were being helped in a professional or semi-professional way. Now some 40,000 people are being assisted. 
Yes, it has increased to 400 per cent. Four times as many people are being helped. Of those 40,000 people, 80 per cent are receiving in-plant training. So, let us not quibble about who really is concerned about the unemployed and the less advantaged of the unemployed, because it is very obvious. The other scheme that the Labor Party introduced was the RED scheme which cost $2 10m and which the Labor Party itself decided was such a debacle that it closed it down. It closed it down in October 1975.  Senator James  McClelland, in answering a question  Senator Rae  asked about the closing down of the scheme in Tasmania, said: 
The position is that because of the budgetary situation no new schemes are being approved. Some of the sponsors of the schemes which had been approved prior to 30 June have been told that the approval has been withdrawn. 
So, the RED scheme- the scheme that was meant to help the unemployed during the Labor era- was withdrawn because of budgetary considerations. As I have said, there were only two schemes- the RED scheme, which was withdrawn, and the NEAT scheme which helped professional and semi-professional people, not the unskilled- that the Labor Party introduced to overcome the tremendous unemployment it had created for 222,000-odd people in just two years. 
But there is more than that. That period of a couple of years changed the whole philosophy of the people- the whole philosophy of how people look upon the unemployment benefit and how they look upon assisting themselves. When we left office in 1972, 30 per cent of the Australian people who were registered as unemployed actually sought the benefit; but when we came back into office that 30 per cent had increased to 70 per cent. In four short years the whole philosophy of the Australian people had changed from putting some money away for a rainy day and looking after themselves to putting out their hands as soon as they are unemployed and claiming the benefit. 
I can give the Senate a pretty good example. I was asked about this the other day. The mother of a nurse who had just finished her three-year course complained to me. The nurse had been earning for three years what all of us would consider a fairly good wage in certainly a very reliable job. She had to wait two months before goinginto her higher training in obstetrics. That mother complained to me that her daughter had trouble in getting the unemployment benefit for those two months. 

 - Senator Georges says that she was entitled to it. That is exactly what I am saying and pointing out. The whole philosophy of the Australian people is being undermined and ruined by the Opposition. In a normal situation before we went out of office it would never have occurred to any nurse who had worked for three years and been paid a reasonable salary not to be prepared to look after herself for two months without going on to the unemployment benefit and putting her hand out for that benefit for two months until she went into another equally well paid job for another nine months of training. But for two months benefit the whole philosophy of that person changed. This is a result of the Labor era. It really points out the damage that the Opposition did during its time in office. 
As I said, in my opinion and in the opinion of the public- this is why we are in office nowLabor acted very irresponsibly regarding the unemployed. Wages went up, inflation went up, there were across the board tariff cuts, unemployment rose and there was just complete and utter irresponsibility. Labor introduced two schemes, as I said. We have not completely covered this area; I admit that. We still have a long way to go, but at least we have stopped the rise in unemployment and we have schemes that are acclaimed by the whole of the population. We have an apprentice scheme that is encouraging people to go into apprenticeships. My time has expired, and I now move: 
That the question by now put. 
-My question is also directed to the Attorney-General in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Can he say when the result of the Industrial Registrar's investigation into the irregularities of the last election of the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union will be made known so that the Government can take any action which may be necessary? 
I ask the Minister for Education: Is it a fact that in 1976-77 the Tasmanian Minister for Education,  Mr Batt,  underspent the loan funds appropriation for primary schools by $1.7m; that in respect of the Consolidated Revenue appropriation for 1976-77, out of 39 items, in 22 cases the Minister for Education spent less than the estimated amounts appropriated by the Tasmanian Parliament in the 1976 Budget; and that one of those items cut was the State's contribution towards the cost of meals for children at special schools? In the light of the above facts is there any truth in  Mr Batt  s assertion that in some way Tasmanian education has been disadvantaged by any decision of the Federal Government? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations whether he can say what action the Government is taking regarding the new rules introduced by the Builders Labourers Federation to prohibit right wing members from standing for union office. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Has the Minister seen a Press statement issued by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate claiming that funds for government schools had been cut because the Government believes they are becoming too elitist? Will the Minister inform the Senate of his views on elitism in schools? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations whether he has seen in a Tasmanian newspaper the headline 'Rebel Works Alone'. Is the Minister aware that the socalled rebel is a young 19-year-old apprentice who has chosen not to join a certain union because he believes it is contrary to the terms of his agreement as an apprentice, and that his big brave fellow unionists have refused to work with him or to work with any equipment he touches? Can the Minister apply any pressure to the Tasmanian Premier to stop this type of bullying and to assist this young man to carry out his agreement as an apprentice? 
-Can the AttorneyGeneral say when the appointment of the Director of the Institute of Family Studies will be announced? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Can the Minister say whether the proposed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which will be passed through this place today, will cover the position - 
-My question also is addressed to the Leader of the Government in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It follows a question I asked on Wednesday when I referred to a report of intimidation of a young Tasmanian apprentice by his fellow workers because of his belief that he should not have to join a union. Will the Minister examine the case to ascertain what protection can be given to this apprentice, either through the new Industrial Relations Bureau or through normal criminal law, seeing that the State Government in Tasmania has not seen fit to assist this young man? 
-We have heard  Senator Button  tell us how unnecessary this legislation is, how it will not work and that it is being rushed through Parliament. 
-Senator Ryan agrees. Let us have a look at the contention that the legislation is being rushed through the Parliament. As  Senator Wright  pointed out earlier, this legislation was laid on the table five months ago. At that time we were assured by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  that those pieces of legislation that were not passed with the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation would be introduced this session. So honourable senators opposite would have had plenty of time, if they had so chosen, to have a good look at this Bill. They have had all the time in the world to study it carefully. 
The reason the Senate has taken the unusual step of sitting today to put the legislation through is because of what is happening in Victoria at the moment. This legislation will be able to deal effectively with that position.  Senator Button  and  Senator Bishop  have both said that the legislation will not be effective. They said that the legislation we previously passed in respect of Commonwealth employees was not effective. They said that we have not proclaimed it. We have not proclaimed it; we have had no reason to do so. As soon as the legislation was passed, the strike which prompted it was resolved. That legislation proved effective simply by putting it through the Parliament. 
-We have heard a lot about Bob Hawke, but I will come to him later. I would like to draw to the attention of the Senate the volume of trade union action that we have had to put up with lately. Because of the amount of time I have at my disposal I will not be able to cover a quarter of the examples I would like to mention. However, I shall refer to some of them.  Senator Bishop  said the number of days lost in the life of this Government due to industrial disputes is less than those under previous governments. I answer that by saying that the unions today have become more sophisticated in their approach to strikes. They are putting out key men in various areas. This is causing far more disruption to the community than was ever experienced under the previous Government. This action is far more disruptive to the community in general. I believe there has been an actual attempt in these last two years to overthrow the elected government. I ask honourable senators opposite to answer this plain question: Who should say whether we will trade our wheat with Chile? Should it be the elected government or a union? I ask honourable senators opposite to answer that question because at the moment the union and not the elected government of this country is saying whether we should trade our wheat with Chile. 
Let us look at the situation with the builders labourers in Victoria. The Collins Place complex is to cost $130m. There are 1,850 people debarred from working on that project. On the State Bank office complex, which is a $50m complex, 1,150 people are debarred from working. We just do not know how many people in the retail trade would be provided with jobs if the 
Knox City shopping complex were ever to be completed. We have now come to the situation where building projects have been scrapped altogether. People will not go ahead with building projects and the plans have been abandoned. That is the situation simply because of the disruption caused by the builders labourers in Victoria. 
Honourable senators opposite are objecting and saying that these activities are all quite legitimate, that all of these people should be put out of work, that all of these building projects should be abandoned because of industrial strikes. The unions have absolute power to do that. Honourable senators opposite agree with the situation of all of these people being put out of work. The Redfern Mail Exchange so far has taken a year - 
I have not worked in the Redfern Mail Exchange but I certainly have worked as a nurse in the large hospitals of this country. I have worked in the dirtiest of conditions. I have worked in pan rooms week after week. I have worked harder and for longer hours than the people at the Redfern Mail Exchange have ever worked. I was working at that stage a 70-hour week, and in that job I was not working for a salary as good as is provided today. We were treated as students. We were getting 18 shillings a week, and that was not all that long ago. Honourable senators opposite should not try to tell me that I do not know the conditions under which people work. I have worked under far worse conditions than do the workers at the Redfern Mail Exchange. Of course, the Opposition is saying that all of these disruptions are quite legitimate and that they should go on. I come now to the Burnie strike, which is something very close to the hearts of the people of Tasmania. The Burnie Marine Board lost $80,000 in just one month. No doubt honourable senators opposite think that that is all quite legitimate. There was a dispute between the transport workers and the waterside workers about who should actually tie up the ships visiting Burnie, and that cost the Burnie Marine Board $80,000. That loss, of course, is apart from all the money that was lost to business in that area as a result of their cargoes not being discharged. The Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd considered closing its mills in Tasmania at that time because of the disruption. Tioxide Australia threatened to close its Tasmanian branch because of the disruption by this handfull of people on the waterfront. Do not tell me that legislation does not work or that the Government cannot make it work. I refer back to the air traffic controllers strike and the threatened strike of the pilots. What happened when  Mr Fraser  said 'We will bring in the Air Force to fly planes down to Tasmania'? The pilots immediately went back to work and there were planes flying to Tasmania. 
We did not put them in gaol. We said that we would bring in the Air Force to fly planes to Tasmania so that my State would not be cut off from the rest of the country by those threatened strikes. Now we find that two thousand workers of the State Electricity Commission of Victoria have put half a million people out of work. Again the Opposition thinks that that is perfectly all right. It says: 'Give them their $40 a week extra so that everybody there can go back to work'. Now we are told that Bob Hawke is rectifying that disaster. But how long has that taken? Bob Hawke was sick. Do not honourable senators opposite remember that he was incapacitated right up to the time when the whole thing was brought to a head by the Victorian Government when the Victorian Government threatened to deregister the unions involved. Then a magic wand was waved and Bob Hawke was suddenly better and decided to enter into the proceedings at the eleventh hour. Quite frankly, the Australian people are fed up with pleading with the unions to behave and to be reasonable. We find that the headlines in the Tasmanian newspapers are along these lines:  Mr Lowe  pleads with the air pilots'. He pleads with them: 'Please do not cut us off'. He does not say: 'Get back to work because you are acting illegally'. He simply says: 'Please do not cut us off'. Then we have  Mr Lowe  pleading with the Seamen's Union to discharge the cargo at Burnie: 'Please will you not just take the cargo off for us?' He does not say to them: 'Behave in a legal fashion and behave within the laws of this country'. He pleads with them. We then have  Mr Lowe  pleading with the employees of the Australian National Line: 'Please off-load the cargo at Bell Bay. Do not hold our State to ransom '. He gets down on his knees and he pleads with them. It is time that that sort of pleading was over. 

 - Senator Georges asks me what I would do with them. We are passing legislation which will have the effect of insuring that that sort of activity is stopped. We are not pleading with them, as  Senator Georges  obviously thinks that we should. I would like to find out just what the Opposition would suggest should be done. It is against any legislation which suggests that unions should be subject to normal law and order. That, of course, is just the end. The Opposition suggests that we should not bring them under the normal provisions of law and order. It says that unions are outside the normal provisions of law and order. It says that these matters should be handled by Bob Hawke. I remind honourable senators opposite that $80,000 was lost to the Burnie Marine Board. What did Bob Hawke do about that? I remind honourable senators opposite that half a million people are out of work in Victoria. What did Bob Hawke do about that? Of course, I could go on and on and mention the builders labourers. What has Bob Hawke done about that situation? He has done absolutely not a thing. 
Perhaps we could look at the record of the Labor Party when it was in power. In 1973, 2.6 million man days were lost, and in 1974, 6.3 million man days were lost. That latter figure represents a record; it has never been surpassed in any other year. In 1975, 3.5 million man days were lost. By gee, Bob Hawke helped the Opposition a lot, did he not? It really did amazingly well. Honourable senators opposite do not believe in passing legislation; they say that all these things should be left to Bob Hawke. But just look at their record. 
-Part of the Labor Party's policy is that it agrees with political strikes. It is all right for the unions to say whether we should trade with Chile. That is quite legitimate! Such matters should not be left to the Government to decide! We should remember that. It should be left to the unions to say with whom we should trade! Do not forget that Bob Hawke can be sick whenever he likes until he finally realises that matters are being settled and then enters the proceedings. 
I feel that  Senator Mulvihill  is begging the question of whether or not I have been sick. I now turn to individual rights. I shall deal with the provisions that will be introduced under this Bill. On the question of individual rights, it will be interesting to see just whether the Society for Civil Liberties will back our proposals, because it must surely agree that the proposals in this legislation relating to individual rights are essential to this community. 

 -That, Senator Georges, is exactly what I am talking about- the rights of this society and the rights of the individuals in this society. What about those people who have a conscientious objection to joining a union? Honourable senators opposite say that pressure should not be placed on people to work. Honourable senators opposite believe that if people do not want to work they should not have to work but that they must join a union if they work. This, to me, is an anomaly in anybody's thinking. It is something that I just cannot understand. 
There is no compulsion about membership of the AMA. Only about twothirds of doctors in Australia belong to the AMA. There is no compulsion on doctors at all. This legislation seeks to cover the situation where a union might apply pressure. In this respect, I refer to the position in Tasmania at the moment where we have a young apprentice who says that, according to the conditions of his apprenticeship, he should not join a union. Because he will not join a union his fellow workers are calling him a scab and are not associating with him. That action will no longer be permitted under this legislation. Once it is enacted, if any pressure is put on that poor young apprentice, the person applying the pressure will be acting against the law and action can be taken against him. The right to work is protected in this legislation. A little while ago,  Senator Bishop  said that the right to work was not contained in our legislation. It is. The rights to work and not to strike are contained in the legislation. People who want to work and do not wish to strike cannot be discriminated against. Once the legislation is passed, to do so will be completely illegal. It will be up to the rank and file unionist now to make up his own mind whether he wants to strike. If he continues to go to work- as the majority of unionists did during the Medibank strike-he will be able to do so without the discrimination, threats, abuse and physical violence that went on during the Medibank strike when some people decided that they would go to work and would not go on strike. 
-Only one or two,  Senator Georges?  A majority of unionists attend work. Discriminatory action was taken against those unionists who went to work. 
I turn now to proposed new Part VIIIAA which deals with the accounts and audits of unions. These amendments will provide that records be kept and made available to all members of a union. The records must be open and accurate. Financial returns will be filed with the Industrial Registrar. Investigation of any irregularities will be made by the Industrial Relations Bureau. We will be able to overcome quite a few of the irregularities that have occurred. 
-Senator Melzer asked: What irregularities?'. Obviously, she has not read the report from the Royal Commission into Alleged Payments to Maritime Unions. If  Senator Melzer  had read that report she would be moved in some way to agree with the findings of that investigation. If any honourable senator opposite disagrees with this section of our legislation, I invite him or her to examine some of the findings of that Royal Commission. They would make anyone's hair stand on end. We find that the unions at that time were trying to get payments for not supplying work. Further, on occasions when they were asked for labour but could not supply it, they demanded money for the work that was being done by the crews. The unions were demanding money even when they could not supply the labour. We find that the Royal Commissioner said that all this work that was claimed for the shore unions was never, at any stage, a justified claim. The money should never have been given to them. There were no grounds for them to have received it. These payments amounted to thousands and thousands of dollars and put our international trade in jeopardy. That money found its way into individual official unionists pockets. The union held big dinner parties. More than $1,000 was paid for such dinner parties. The money went into the purchase of pool tables and all sorts of things. 
I sincerely believe that the legislation will stop it. When the legislation is passed, it will make unions accountable in respect of such activities. I turn now to the deregistration of unions. I have been told that I have only one minute remaining to speak, so I will be able to make only a passing reference to deregistration of unions. The present process of deregistration is long and tedious. The new process will allow partial deregistration for certain sections of a union. Specific areas may be dealt with. But more importantly, I believe, is the section of the Bill which gives the right to suspend the rights, privileges and capacities of a member or all members of a union. It restricts also the use of funds and properties. These processes will be able to be instigated far quicker than the existing process of deregistration which takes such a long time. I support the Bill. It will be passed in the Senate today. By the time the amendments to the Act are enacted, we will find that this legislation has made a big difference to the current strike in Victoria. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Can he inform the Senate whether an appointment has yet been made to the position of first principal of the Australian Maritime College in Launceston? 
-In speaking to the report on the drug problem in Australia, I would like first to say how interesting I found working with my colleagues on it, representing as it does the Senate at its very best. We have attempted to come up with a report on the extent and nature of the inappropriate use of alcohol, tobacco, analgesics and cannabis. The Committee was in substantial agreement with what the  Chairman  has said on most aspects of these drugs. However, we were equally divided when it came to our recommendations on cannabis reflecting perhaps the division felt at this time in the community also. We were unanimously in agreement that alcohol and tobacco were Australia's main drug problems. Alcohol is certainly the biggest problem. It is a health and a social problem of tremendous extent and one which exists only at great cost to the community. 
Alcohol has been a major factor in the death of 30,000 Australians in the last 10 years. During that period, death from cirrhosis of the liver has risen by 75 per cent. The consumption of beer has increased by 27 per cent, of wine by 122 per cent and of spirits by 50 per cent during that decade. Over a quarter of a million Australians can be classified as alcoholics. Some 1,200,000 Australians are affected either personally or in their family situation by the abuse of alcohol. One in every five hospital beds is occupied by a person suffering from its adverse effects. Two in every five divorces result from problems associated with its consumption. Some 73 per cent of men who had committed violent crimes had drunk alcohol prior thereto. Indeed, alcohol is associated with half the serious crimes committed in this country. 
Alcoholism among the young is increasing dramatically. As many as 10 per cent of school children between the ages of 12 and 17 become very drunk at least once a month, yet the Australian people say that alcohol is not a drug. We find that some parents are happy that their children are not taking drugs even if they do come home drunk each weekend. When we realise the tremendous carnage, the terrible crashes on our roads, and that some 50 per cent of all highway deaths are associated with the use of alcohol, it is time the community generally did something about it. It has become a socially acceptable drug and we have to make sure that it is no longer socially acceptable to abuse it. 
The Committee does not claim in its report to have come up with the answer. I believe that the reason is that society apparently needs some sort of stimulation, so we come up with the conclusion: 'Drug problems in Australia: An intoxicated society?'. 
We have 38 recommendations in the chapter on alcohol, and I would like to read one or two of them. One is that the excise imposed on beer of a low alcoholic content, defined as not more than 2.5 per cent by weight, be 30 per cent less than that on other beer; that the Commonwealth Government ban the advertising of alcoholic beverages, whether corporate or by the exhibiting of brand names in a planned fashion on radio and television, in areas under direct Commonwealth control such as the Territories and airports; and that Commonwealth and State governments support research and development on mechanical devices to deter the drinking driver. Many such devices are being researched at present. They certainly bear close examination. 
I do not think there is anyone now who would say that the scientists are not right in claiming that the use of tobacco is a definite hazard to one's health. Some 8,000 people have died of heart complaints resulting from the smoking of tobacco. There have been 3,500 deaths from lung cancer for the same reason. People smoke 2,800 million cigarettes a month. It is accepted that smoking is a danger to health, yet 56 per cent of males and 35 per cent of females over the age of 25 continue to smoke. I should like to quote one or two of the recommendations on tobacco from the 16 that we have proposed. One is that the tar and nicotine content be stated on the cigarette package. Another is that the Commonwealth Department of Health establish upper limits for tar and nicotine content and progressively reduce the permitted levels until all cigarettes with a content in excess thereof are banned. 
The use of analgesics, in terms of percentage of the population, is less of a problem, but we should face it before it too becomes a major concern. Far too many people are completely ignorant of the fact that the use of analgesics is habituating. We have had evidence of women admitting to the taking of more than 50 compound analgesics a day, and such people represent 20 per cent of those who suffer kidney failure. We have recommended that all nonprescription analgesics in packages containing more than 25 tablets or 12 powders should be available only from a pharmacy, and that the Health Department should monitor consumer usage and attitudes towards, proprietary medicines to measure the effect of various intervention strategies. We agree with the proposals for the restriction of sale announced by the National Health and Medical Reseach Council. 
As  Senator Baume  has said, the use of cannabis was the area on which we were in disagreement. The further we went in the taking of evidence the more we realised how little was known of the effects of its long term use. We do know that those countries of the United Nations group where there has been long-term use of the drug are the ones that are most against its use being permitted. The Committee was equally divided on this issue, and it was only by the Chairman's exercising his casting vote that the report was indeed filed as a majority report. The majority advocated decriminalisation of the taking or growing of marihuana for personal use. It is this really with which we are mainly in disagreement. 
The report has used to strengthen its argument the case of eight American States and the alteration of the legislation in those States. However, seven of these States have just recently introduced this legislation- they have introduced it in only the past two years. In the minority report I strongly disagreed with Australia using the situation in America as an example in this regard, not only because the experience there has been too short from which to draw any results, but also because at least one of those eight States mentioned in the majority report has already repealed that legislation. I refer to the State of South Dakota. In a second State, the State of Maine, at the moment considerable pressure is being brought to bear for it to repeal its decriminalising legislation. 
The excuse used for the recommendation to decriminalise cannabis is that existing legal sanctions have led to some unfortunate consequences. Among these are the growing suspicion of corruption in the process of law enforcement, diminished respect for the law and for enforcement authorities and a deterioration in the relationship between young people and the police. I believe these types of comments are totally unsubstantiated. I believe that they do immense harm by undermining the authority of law and order generally and cannot be attributed in any way to the present laws in relation to cannabis. The majority of committee members have recommended a reduction in the severity of the penalty for possession for personal use and for the growing of cannabis for personal use in that there would then no longer be any necessity for the offender to appear at court. 
-Senator Wright just asked what was the difference between this offence and being drunk. I shall come to that a little later because we did receive evidence concerning the difference between alcohol and cannabis. But in the meantime, evidence was brought before the Committee regarding the effect of using marihuana, particularly in association with the consumption of alcohol, on the ability to drive a motor car. We have had evidence that the effect of this is just so much worse than any effect already experienced in this community, which makes me believe that it would be totally irresponsible to do anything that would be likely to increase the use of marihuana. Many people, who are listed in the minority report, gave evidence to the effect that in their opinion there would be an increase in the use of marihuana if we were to reduce the penalties at all. I believe that if we are sincere in the first objective of our national strategy to reduce the national consumption of cannabis in respect of both recruitment and present personal use, which is outlined on page 163 of the report, we will do nothing that is likely to increase the use of this drug. 
We have two main objections to the legalisation ofthe growing of cannabis for personal use. One is the difficulty of policing the number of plants which would be claimed to be for personal use. The second is that the cannabis plant not only produces marihuana but, as every honourable senator should know, also contains harmful derivatives, for example, hashish and hashish oil- two products the use of which the majority report states should be treated with great severity. Yet if people are allowed to plant cannabis in their backyard, as they might plant any other vegetable, with just a minor penalty imposed for doing so these people would have immediate access to hashish and hashish oil. I believe that no Australian would suggest that people should be allowed free access to either of those. We had evidence, as is reported also in the minority report, about the great variety of tetrahydrocannabinol in the numerous varieties of the cannabis plant. The dried cannabis plant, especialy the flowering tops from the female plant, might contain anything from nought to 14 per cent THC. So there is no way that it can be said that planting a couple of plants of cannabis in the backyard can be of little consequence. 
It was put to us-  Senator Wright  raised this question also- that there is virtually no difference between marihuana and alcohol. We heard evidence from a marihuana user. When I asked him what he considered to be the difference between marihuana and alcohol he said: 'There is a world of difference. With marihuana if you ask a friend to come and have a smoke you say "Come and get stoned", whereas if you ask a friend to come and have a drink you do not necessarily mean that you want to come and get drunk'. One is a direct invitation to smoke marihuana to become intoxicated, whereas the other could be an invitation just to have a thirst quencher on a hot day. I believe that if we take these things into consideration; if we remember the road fatalities which already are experienced through the use of alcohol; if we remember that alcohol and marihuana are going to create far greater tragedies on the road, as evidence we have from America certainly does underline, it is seen that our minority report adopts a very responsible approach. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development explain to the chamber the safeguards entered into by the Whitlam Labor Government when it organised the mining and export of Australian uranium just two years ago? Can the Minister explain its safeguards, specifically in relation to the disposal of waste, the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the mining of the uranium itself? 
-by leave-I table written answers to questions asked during Estimates Committee D's consideration of the particulars of proposed expenditure received since the report of the Committee was tabled on 13 October. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer Has his attention been drawn to the rise of 6.6 per cent on the Sydney Stock Exchange yesterday, one of the strongest rises for years, which was attributed to the falling of official interest rates and the prospect of a Government win at next month's election? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry say whether horizontal scrub wood which is so prevalent in my State has been investigated with a view to mounting full scale production of the timber? Its propensity to bending rather than splitting under stress would seem to make it particularly suitable for many articles, for example, axe handles which are at present imported from Canada. 
It gives me great pleasure to support the package of stevedoring Bills before the chamber today. I, like  Senator Button,  hold great hope that this legislation will answer the past problems this country has witnessed on the waterfront. We are all well aware of the difficulties which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has faced in forming this legislation. I too do not view this legislation with the confidence I should like to express. I realise that to bring about a perfect result on the waterfront would be nigh impossible. The history of the stevedoring industry shows that the disruption, abuses, blackmail and special privileges which the waterside workers have had conferred on them have not accomplished the long term improvement of the conditions of the waterside workers. In fact, they have achieved the opposite. The waterside workers seem to have worked themselves out of a job. There was a total of 221,000 men on the waterfront in 1966. That total is now just over 10,000 men. 
The cost has been too great and the productivity too low to maintain the old type of cargo handling vessels. The industry has increasingly turned to the bulk cargo carriers and the roll-on roll-oft" ferries. The fact that to load a case of apples in the port of Hobart is the most expensive handling in the world has only resulted in apple ships not calling at that port. There would not be a waterside worker or even a resident of Hobart who would not long for the days of a few years ago when Hobart was, perhaps, one of the busiest ports in Australia during the apple season. It is now just a ghost port where ships come to be tied up while they are lying idle. It has the cheapest berths available. Space is no longer a problem. Hobart has empty wharves day in and day out. Occasionally fishing vessels come in to replenish supplies. There is also the weekly roll-on roll-off ferry. That is about all we see. 
Much of our traditional cargo has been turned to bulk handling. In fact, 70 per cent of all Australian cargo is now covered by bulk handling. The majority of this is handled outside the labour force of the waterside workers. This division will be maintained in the new Bill. It will remain outside Division 4 of Part III of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The industrial relations history of bulk handling has been one of considerable peace on the waterfront. The Government believes that this peace should be maintained for the sake of the industry, the employers, the employees, the trade and the economy of Australia generally. The AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  who represents the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations stated in his second reading speech that the Government has decided to withdraw to a large extent from its responsibilities on the. waterfront. It has decided to return the waterfront to a more direct employer-employee relationship. However, it has stipulated certain guidelines in line with the recommendations of the National Stevedoring Industry Conference report handed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in April this year. 
That Conference comprised the stevedoring employers, the Waterside Workers' Federation, the Austraiian Coastal Shipping Commission, the Broken Hill Pty Company Limited and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, as well as all other interested organisations which were invited to make submissions to that Conference. A tremendous amount of agreement has come out of the conference. Several councils and committees have been established through which the Government will maintain some interest in the waterfront. An example of these are the co-ordinating committees which have been established in each port to supervise the efficient and productive use of labour and to reduce the turn-around time of vessels in port. These committees are made up of representatives of relevant employers, members of the Waterside Workers' Federation and other interested bodies, for example, the port authorities. It is essential that the port authorities be represented on these committees as they protect the interests of the smaller ports. This is an essential aspect. The committees will supervise the new arrangements regarding the labour force which have been agreed on by the National Stevedoring Industry Conference. 
Perhaps the biggest problem regarding industrial action on the waterfront is the lack of job conciliators, people who could whip in as soon as there is any industrial upheaval and sort the matter out. There has been provision for such people on the waterfront but agreement as to who they should be has never been reached. The National Stevedoring Industry Conference agreed that where parties could not agree as to the persons who should be appointed, the appointments should come from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commissioner. However, an agreement has already been reached on the nominees and appointments will be made as soon as this legislation becomes law. A further committee called the Stevedoring Industry Consultative Council, comprising representatives of the major industry parties and other significant interest groups concerned with industry, overseas trade and cargo handling has been set up for consultation between the Government and the industry. I believe that consultation is always an essential area. If we have no consultation all sorts of problems develop that otherwise could be avoided. 
I referred earlier to a reduction in the work force on the waterfront. Part of this reduction was of a voluntary nature but it was at considerable cost to the industry and, because costs are passed on, at considerable cost to the exporters of our goods. This has resulted in a large deficit which now has to be paid. Future long service entitlements also have to be met. As a result the Stevedoring Industry Finance Committee has been set up, chaired by a government appointee, to supervise all the levies to be paid. There are man-hour levies to cover the large deficit to which I referred. It is proposed that this levy will operate for a limited period of six years. It is to be hoped that the deficit will be dealt with in that time. There is also a levy to be paid for each tonne of cargo. This is to ensure that funds are collected for future long service leave of waterside workers. Other special levies are imposed on employers for all the other benefits associated with waterside workers. The only other area in which the Government has taken a hand is that of collecting statistics for the waterfront. This will be carried out by the Department of Transport which will overcome the duplication that exists in the area. I am pleased that the Opposition is supporting these Bills. I believe that with the assistance of conciliators and the areas in which the Government has still shown interest the stevedoring industry will be able to overcome the problems it has had in the past. 
-Can the Minister for Social Security say whether the term 'community based' when applied to child care centres can be taken to refer to the working community? If so, does the Government propose to extend child minding facilities in Commonwealth Government buildings? 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government. Has his attention been drawn to the $30m expansion in Burnie announced yesterday by Associated Pulp and Paper Mills? The manager of APPM said that the announcement took into account the Government 's freight equalisation scheme and its decision further to assist industries in Tasmania. Does that indicate APPM's confidence that this Government will continue after the election? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, follows on from the question asked by  Senator Ryan.  Could the Minister tell the Senate what progress has been made in Tasmanian schools towards achieving the targets set by Professor Karmel and the Schools Commission? 
-The Social Services Amendment Bill is concerned primarily with assisting the family and righting in some of our legislation anomalies which exist at the moment in relation to women. We have not found it necessary to scream women's lib. from the rooftops as the last Government did. We have not found it necessary to appoint representatives from radical women's movements as advisers to our Government as the last Government did just to appease some of the minority vocal members of the community. Instead, we have quitely and practically set about passing legislation which will assist the family and women in particular. I refer to a couple of instances in our legislation, such as the family allowance, which have assisted the low income families, large families. This has assisted women who were, I believe, the most disadvantaged in our community. We have assisted also by amending the Commonwealth Superannuation Act. Previously women were not recognised as participating in the contributions which their husbands made to that superannuation fund. The amendments mean that women are now recognised along with their husbands as contributing to that fund. Eligibility is no longer on a needs basis. Women are entitled, as a right, to have widows' superannuation. If they remarry they are still entitled to that superannuation. 
The legislation before us tonight continues in this vein. We have extended the free Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service to include women and not just the pensioners and beneficiaries who previously had eligibility to the fund. The provision has been extended to women who are not necessarily going back into the work force but just going into the home. They are to be rehabilitated so that from now on they can resume their role of mother and wife in the family. The second reading speech delivered by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  states: 
During the current year, emphasis will be paid to the acceptance of greater numbers of disabled housewives, especially those from families of low socio-economic status who would otherwise be unlikely to undertake necessary rehabilitation on a paying basis even if this were offered at reduced charges. Priority will also be given to those cases where the breadwinner's employment status is being affected because of the demands of caring for a disabled spouse living at home and who could be afforded more independence through appropriate rehabilitation measures. 
It will mean a tremendous amount to families to have their mother or wife rehabilitated and performing her role. With the new  Sir Douglas  Parker Rehabilitation Centre in Tasmania being set up we look forward to the extension of that service. The handicapped child's allowance is a piece of legislation which affects the family. As  Senator Grimes  has said, it was originally designed by the Australian Labor Party to assist those families whose mother and father have decided to care for the handicapped child at home rather than send him to an institution. However, in a lot of cases a lesser handicap is still a tremendous financial burden on the low income family.  Senator Grimes  appears to want this matter to be cut and dried. But I am sure that  Senator Grimes,  with his medical experience, realises that there are such varying degrees of handicap that this aspect cannot be just cut and dried. It will have to be left to the discretion of the Director-General. For instance, the cost for orthopaedic shoes varies considerably. The degree of handicap in providing shoes of this type would depend on the family's income. I was talking to a maker of orthopaedic shoes the other day and he told me that the most expensive shoes he had made cost $500. That just shows the range of orthopaedic shoes which exist. 
I have said that it depends on the family's income. The degree of disability varies to such an extent,  Senator Grimes,  that this matter has to be left to the discretion of the Director-General. We have all sorts of disorders to consider. Phenyl ketonuria, as  Senator Grimes  knows, is a great expense to the family. If it is diagnosed at birth and if appropriate treatment is carried out the child will be perfectly normal. If it is not diagnosed then mental retardation takes place. The treatment of the disease is a very expensive business for the family. The cost ranges from $ 1 5 to $20 a week just to carry out the treatment with the necessary drugs, special bread, special minerals and the special vitamins which are all part of the diet. These are the types of things which are needed. The child is not handicapped as long as it is being treated. But this is a great financial burden to the lower income families. We have the odd celiacs who need a gluten-free diet. We have children with disorders of fat metabolism who require special low fat diets. Fish and chicken are trie only proteins these children can consume. We all know how expensive some of these diets can be. I believe that this benefit will be a great asset to these low income families. There has been an anomaly and I would congratulate the Minister on being able to rectify it. 
I now wish to say something about the sickness benefit, especially as it relates to women.  Senator Grimes  seemed to be very critical about this benefit. The Opposition seems to be supporting everything except the amendment in relation to the waiting period for the unemployment benefit which is to be paid in arrears.  Senator Grimes  tried to tell us at one stage that the Opposition was in favour of the rest of the Bill but he seemed to be so critical of the Bill in general that it really did not appear that way to me. Previously a male was eligible to receive the sickness benefit irrespective of how much his wife earned. However, the wife was not entitled to this benefit if there was any possibility of her husband supporting her. 
The honourable senator is entirely wrong because now eligibility is to be based on the combined income. The whole basis for eligibility is being changed. It will now be the combined income. 
-That is right. However, we will not have the situation that a man married to a millionairess is eligible to claim the sickness benefit. This new provision is completely just and fair. They will both now be entitled to support provided the combined income is within the means test. 
I now turn to the subject of school leavers. A tremendous amount of discussion has taken place in this chamber over school leavers and the six weeks waiting period before becoming eligible for the unemployment benefit. There has been much abuse of the unemployment benefit in this respect. Honourable senators on both sides of the chamber know of the abuses that have gone on under this legislation. 
I am quite sure that every honourable senator in this place knows of many children who have applied for the unemployment benefit during their Christmas holidays and have gone back to school after the vacation. 
We all know of such instances. This legislation has been introduced to overcome these abuses and to regulate the scheme in a more reasonable fashion. Parents are being asked to support their children for just an additional six weeks while they seek employment. I think that the period of six weeks is justified. In this period they can have a jolly good go at seeking employment. This provision will discourage the abuses that we know have taken place in the past. We know that children have claimed the unemployment benefit while they have been on holiday and this Government is taking action to stop this. 

 Senator Grimes accused us tonight of being most unsympathetic not just to school leavers but to the unemployed generally. This is something I fail to understand. I would like to draw the attention of the Senate to some figures. In 1974- in just one year- 189,918 people were thrown out of work as a result of the policies of the Labor Government. Nearly 200,000 people were thrown out of work in one year. The Labor Government did not say that it was unsympathetic but it did not seem to worry very much about these people. It went ahead with its policies and the next year it threw another few thousand out of work. An additional 3.1 per cent of the work force was thrown out of employment in just one year. Nearly 200,000 people were thrown out of work in one year. 
An additional 0.2 per cent of people were put out of work in the first year of the present Government's term of office. Admittedly the present Government has not been able to put them back into the work force. However, the fact still remains that during our first year of office an additional 0.2 per cent became unemployed. I repeat that in the one year, under the Labor Government, 3.1 per cent became unemployed yet, members of the Opposition are telling us that the present Government is not concerned, that it is unsympathetic. I think that comes very ill from the Opposition Party which created this tremendous amount of unemployment. 
-Well, I am sorry,  Senator, but  I have the figures. Everyone has the figures. The Labor Government had 200,000 people thrown out of work in one year. On the other hand, this Government in one year put out 0.2 per cent. In one year the Labor Government put out an additional 3. 1 per cent. It ill becomes the honourable senator to say anything about unemployment. If I were the honourable senator I would be very quiet about it. 
I would like to say something about the increases in the rate of pension that are contained in this legislation and will be paid from this month on. Pensions have been increased at a rate above the inflation rate because they attract the full consumer price index rise, which is not the case with salaries. The single rate pension will be increased by $2.20 a week, from $47. 10 to $49.30. The maximum combined married rate will be increased by $3.70 a week from $78.50 to $82.20. Since this Government has been in office the single rate pension has increased by $ 10.55 a week and the married rate pension by $17.70 a week. 
The unemployment benefit will now be paid in arrears and this seems to be the thing that  Senator Grimes  is objecting to most of all.  Senator Grimes  also seemed to object to the supporting parents' benefit. I thought that the Opposition would have approved of this but it seems that the Government can do no right. 

 - Senator Grimes was very critical of the Government introducing this amendment. He did not seem to be pleased. He said it was a purely a political gimmick and that it was done in too much of a hurry. He said that it was not good enough anyway. However, he also said that two years ago the then Labour Government did not even think of it. It seems to me to be extraordinary that  Senator Grimes  would say that two years ago there was no pressure to introduce this proposal and that the then Labor Government did not even think of it. But now that there has been pressure and this measure has been introduced he is saying that the Government is still wrong because it has done this for political reasons.  Senator Grimes  then tried to disparage the Government by saying that the States will not be able to afford to pay the first half for the first six months. The fact is that two of the States are doing that already and I am quite sure that the other States will fall into line, as they have in respect of the other benefit. 
I know that the introduction of the supporting parents' benefit is of great personal satisfaction to the Minister who has been trying to put this benefit through for a long time. I know that this measure has had high priority because we have spoken about it at committee meetings and she has shown particular interest. I would like to congratulate her on her endeavours in this respect. 
The supporting mothers' benefit will now be extended and become a supporting parents' benefit. It will cover all fathers bringing up children on their own. Once a father has supported children for six months he will become eligible for the same benefit as that received by the supporting mother. I would like to inform the Senate of the new benefit rates. A supporting father will be eligible for a benefit of $49.30 a week, plus $7.50 a week for each child, plus an additional $6 as a guardians allowance ibr each child under six years of age or an invalid child, or $4 for a child over six, plus $5 if he is paying rent. Recipients are also entitled to an income of $32 a week without it affecting payment of the benefit. Of course, they are entitled to the same fringe benefits received by supporting mothers. It gives me great pleasure to support the Bill. The legislation before us proposes support for the wife, the mother in the home, and to me that is of great importance. 
I ask the Minister for Education: What is the method of allocating capital funds for school buildings in the nongovernment sector? Is it possible for the so-called elite schools to receive those funds? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is he aware that during 1974 the present Opposition, while in government, threw an additional 189,918, or nearly 200,000, people out of work in that year alone- that was an additional 3. 1 per cent of the work force- bringing unemployment in 1974 from 2. 1 per cent of the work force to 5.2 per cent? 
I move: 
That the following Address-in- Reply be agreed to: 
To His Excellency the Governor-General 
May it please Your  Excellency-  We, the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament assembled, desire to express our loyalty to our Most Gracious Sovereign, and to thank Your  Excellency  for the Speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament. 
I am conscious of the great honour of being chosen to move this motion, an honour both to the people of Tasmania and to me. I am grateful for the opportunity of being able to express the loyalty of those I represent and the members of the Senate to Her Majesty the Queen who has just completed her 25th year of reign. In doing so I am also expressing our loyalty to our new Governor-General who has been so welcomed by the people of Australia. Through him I also am expressing our loyalty to Australia. Regrettably, few people ever have the opportunity of expressing their loyalty to their country, whether it is their country through birth or adoption. I would remind those who like to create a division that either we or our forbears migrated here in the short span of 190 years. We are a nation of new Australians. 
Australia is a young country, a wealthy country, and a country full of promise. Only now are we coming out of a recession the like of which I hope we will never see again. There has been a world recession. The main reason for it was the sudden high increase in the price of oil. Australia has her own crude oil yet reached the inflation rates of some of the banana republics. I will not go into the reasons for this; the subject has been debated many times in this chamber. Suffice it to say that the inflation rate has come down now to single figures and business confidence has returned. We can see evidence of this every day. In the building industry in the first three weeks following the election building approvals totalling $1 ,400m were announced, and this is an area of high employment. With the added incentive of lower interest rates and the reduction in taxation we expect this industry to improve even further. However, we still have a long way to go and the Governor-General spoke of this yesterday when he referred to our unemployment problem. To overcome this problem Australians must have a good look at their present values. 
In our 190 years our society has seen many changes, all of which should have led us to become a strong self-reliant nation. Our pioneers, explorers and soldiers gave us a magnificent reputation of determination and strength because they had intense pride in their country, wanted it to prosper and were all willing to do a good day's work. The philosophy then was that the day was finished when the job was finished, not when the clock said so. However, in this regard there is a happy medium which can be achieved. I am not suggesting for one minute that we all work 12 hours a day; I am suggesting that we all work a good eight hours a day. Not until we all do a full day's work can Australia prosper again. I was interested in  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew's statement following the closing of the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting. He said: 
Australia will never be able to maintain its high prosperity while Asian competitors work for wages that are 7, 8 or 9 times less. To survive Australia must concentrate on productivity and in a specialised area where we are competing with world markets, not just Asian markets. 
We have, as  Mr Lee  Kwan Yew said, a very high standard of living but it is in danger of slipping. We can see this in the rise in unemployment figures. How can we expect employment to expand if the high wages we are claiming are not earned and if we are not interested in the job we are doing? Quite a large proportion of the blame for lack of interest in the job can be laid right at the employers' feet. There are few instances of much rapport between employer and employee. How on earth can we expect people to be interested in the job they are doing and in the prosperity of their industry if they do not know the problems that that industry encounters or the competition which it faces. Every man should know the importance of the job he is doing. Business is only as efficient and productive as its workers allow it to be. If I may talk about a field in which I have a little knowledge, there is no use in a skilled surgeon operating in a sterile operating theatre if the patient is then sent back to a dirty ward where the food is bad and the nursing slovenly. The patient, despite the skill of the surgeon, would not survive without the combined care and attention of the whole hospital staff. 
The well known quotation from the poet John Donne that 'no man is an Island, entire of itself, but everyone part of the main' should be the motto of every trade union and every business. One relies on the other; one cannot prosper without the full co-operation and help of the other and it is time we did away with the divisions between employer and employee. This is possible; it is done in other countries. Just recently it was reported that the workers in the Honda company in Japan voluntarily gave up 4 days leave because the company was behind with its foreign orders. This is not a one-way affair. The decision of those employees to give up their leave resulted in their company remaining viable and their jobs being assured. However, this can happen only where there is complete confidence and trust between employer and employee and where the employee does not believe that he is being taken for a ride. 
The co-operation and trust which exists between employer and employee should also exist between the elected government and its people. Yet we find that many set out to abuse the system. This is one of the many reasons for the high cost of our health care today. We all are paying for our health care either by way of a levy or through a fund contribution. So there is a tendency to get our money's worth. We feel rather cheated if we have paid out money and have not made a claim. So we demand our moneys worth. Consequently, many people have suggested that one way to contain health costs would be to provide an incentive to people not to abuse the system. What a terrible indictment of our society. Surely people must realise that they have had a good year if they have not had to make a health claim. If their contribution has gone to help less fortunate people that is just their luck. 
The Department of Social Security has had to employ field officers to check on the recipients of the unemployment benefit because many receiving the unemployment benefit would like to abuse the system- a system set up just 32 years ago to protect the unemployed and their families.  Senator Grimes,  the Shadow Minister for Social Security, has made quite a deal of criticism of investigations carried out by the Department. He claims that these investigations are set up only to harass the unemployed. We find that in October 1975 when his Party was in power, a particularly thorough investigation into this matter was carried out. As a result,  Senator Wheeldon,  the then Minister for Social Security, issued a statement in which he claimed that 28 per cent of people receiving the unemployment benefit were not entitled to receive the benefit. He went on to say it was obvious that a great many people were taking advantage of the unemployment benefit and it was essential that the Government should continue to conduct these checks. He also said that in many cases benefits would have terminated or they would have been suspended in the normal course of events where people had already advised the Department, but the Department had been too busy. I could not agree more with  Senator Wheeldon.  These checks must be carried out. I am rather surprised that  Senator Grimes  claims that the checks are made only to harass the unemployed. Is he suggesting that at that time his colleague was harassing only the genuinely unemployed? We have a big enough problem with the unemployed without the added burden of abusers. 
I would now like to deal with the new violence that is creeping into our society. In the last few years we have permitted demonstrations to take place. They have been accepted as a way of airing grievances. It is no longer the done thing to air one's grievances in a democratic manner at the ballot box or by petitioning parliament. Instead we are permitting this minority which is opposed to parliamentary policy to try to inflict its opinion on the majority of electors. We have seen these so-called demonstrations turn into riots. Bricks have been thrown and damage to both person and property has occurred. When the police, who have tried to protect those going about their duties, do their job they are open to both physical and verbal abuse. We find that when they raise their hands to protect themselves the media take photographs and we read headlines screaming 'police brutality'. 
We saw the result of the acceptance of this attitude only last week when Australia witnessed the worst type of terrorism. 
We saw the killing of innocent men. The honourable senator was not listening because this terrorism was the result of an acceptance of violent demonstrations. I am talking about violent demonstrations, not peaceful demonstrations. We have seen the result of violent demonstrations that have been held in Australia. 
Then the honourable senator has not been reading the newspapers or watching television. 
I would be most surprised if the honourable senator has been in most of the violent demonstrations. However, just recently innocent men were killed, and I still contend that this was the result of allowing violent demonstrations to take place in this country. The immediate reaction to this outrage was one of horror. People wanted to know who was to blame. Every area of the police force was open to criticism. We all expect our police forces to protect us but many of us would not like to give them the means of doing so. For instance, the Premier of South Australia has just sacked his Commissioner of Police. The Premier does not like files to be kept just on suspected people who have engaged in some form of political activity. Is that not ludicrous? Surely both  Senator Coleman  and  Mr Dunstan  realise that the tying together of every little bit of information about suspicious happenings enables the police to make arrests and so shelter us from the terrorism which has occurred in other countries. 
I notice that since the bomb explosion  Mr Dunstan  has been very quiet and has had a rethink. Premier Wran, who is backing  Mr Dunstan,  instigated an investigation into the relationship between the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Special Branch of the New South Wales Police Force but he too, since the explosion, has backed down and is no longer conducting the investigation. Did it really take a tragedy of this magnitude to bring those gentlemen to their senses? Surely those gentlemen and the groups who support them and who are so concerned about the people on whom ASIO have files, should spare a little thought for the three men who were killed- for their rights and for their families. 

 His Excellency spoke yesterday of the proposed measures the Government sees necessary in the war against drug traffickers. It is very reassuring to know that the Government is determined to crack down on all those who would bring illicit drugs into our country. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  not only on the complete success of the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting but also for bringing this drug problem to the attention of the delegates. It is the first time that this matter has been a major issue at such a conference. The Prime Minister's initiative has resulted in the setting up of a working group to examine the possibility of further regional cooperation. This is the best way in which we can fight this problem in our area. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  announced that the Government had decided to employ extra staff in the Narcotics Bureau. He said that the Government will acquire highly sophisticated equipment to increase the Bureau 's surveillance capacity and that there will be an upgrading in the sea and air surveillance of our northern and western coasts. He also announced that the level of penalties for trafficking which has already been increased is to be reviewed to see whether a further increase is necessary. Also to be considered is the imposing of minimum penalties and the confiscation of money and real estate from the proceeds of drug trafficking. 
As a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, which recently presented a report on the drug problem in Australia, I welcome those moves. It was obvious to the Committee that the penalties being imposed differed not only from State to State but also from magistrate to magistrate. I am sure that the universal imposition of a minimum penalty and the confiscation of any gains from drug trafficking would overcome this problem. The Minister also referred to amendments being made to the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act to allow the tapping of the telephones of the suspected drug traffickers and the strengthening of the Customs Act to allow listening devices to be used by Customs officials during their investigations. 
I could not agree more with  Senator Georges.  I believe that all these measures require the application of stringent safeguards. I also believe that when they have been brought in the Australian community will accept them and realise that they must be used in this day and age, even though previously we have never had to accept this sort of thing in Australia. As with the ASIO files, those who have nothing to hide have nothing to fear. 
-No doubt we will hear the screams of those who are opposed to these measures.  Senator Georges  has already started. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Fife,  said: 
At the present time the telephone is being used by organisers of major drug trafficking into Australia as a basic secure method of communication to facilitate their miserable dealings. 
It is essential that this route be barred to them; otherwise our officials will be too handicapped, and we might as well give up the unequal struggle now. I will welcome the initiatives that any government secs fit to take to cut out the most vicious habit of drug abuse. I have complete faith in the safeguards being sufficient to maintain- indeed, to expand- the freedoms that we in Australia have cherished for so long. 
Some of the responsibility for the increase in the incidence of drug addiction was recently laid at the door of the media by  Dr Eric  Radcliffe, an experienced psychiatrist. He stated during a hearing before  Mr Justice  Williams in Launceston last week that the media had created the impression that the taking of drugs was so common that it was thought to be fashionable and the thing to do. I agree with that. The Committee of which I was a member was told time and time again during the evidence taken by it that there was a great increase in the use of a specific drug following the reporting of the details of that drug and its effect. The officers who gave that evidence were very concerned about that. They suggested that the Committee should approach the media and ask them to refrain from giving detailed, explicit descriptions. That type of education just does not work. 
The Committee also received evidence about a study conducted of 19 high schools in which four different approaches to the whole problem were adopted. The children were divided into four groups; a teacher led one of the groups. In another group there was discussion of the problem led by a peer. The third group was involved in individual education. The fourth group was left alone completely; there was no education whatsoever. The main result of that survey was that a simple educational approach to such complex and widespread social behaviour is, at best, likely to have limited success. The survey also found in a follow-up that some of the education was counter-productive because the first form boys participating in the groups that had received any of the drug education and the first form girls participating in the individual group education all had significantly higher levels of recruitment to drugs than those who had been left alone completely. The problem is indeed a complex one. I am proud to belong to a government that is willing to take on this immense task, which has been made all the more difficult by the extent of our coastline. Previous governments have baulked at undertaking such a project and have not had the courage to bring in suitable legislation. 
I have touched on just a few of the items that were mentioned yesterday by the GovernorGeneral in his inspiring speech. They are areas of concern to me. I am confident that the Government will have the strength and determination to bring in legislation that will correct the situation. I congratulate the Prime Minister on the initiatives outlined in the Governor-General's Speech and express the hope that the Thirty-first Parliament will lead this country back to the strength and prosperity of which Australia is so capable. The Governor-General concluded his Speech yesterday by saying: 
We also know as Australians that we are a nation that can only progress if we acknowledge our dependence on each other, if we work together for our common good. The unity which we seek is not the unity of unthinking conformity, but the unity of free men who live by respect and concern for each other. 
It has given me much pleasure- indeed, it has been a great honour- to move the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General 's Speech. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and 
Industrial Relations say what the present position is regarding the dispute between Commonwealth Employment Service officers and the Government? 
-Can the Minister representing the Treasurer say whether interest is charged to taxpayers who are late with their dues to the Taxation Office? Further, in cases where the Taxation Office must make a refund because of a mistaken demand made and met, is the taxpayer entitled to the appropriate amount of interest on his money which has been held in error by the Taxation Office? My question is prompted by the number of mistaken demands for Medibank levy payments on taxpayers who are already adequately covered by private health insurance. 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister intends appointing a Commonwealth Ombudsman to Tasmania? If so, when? If not, will the ombudsman, who is shortly to be appointed by the Tasmanian Government, have the power to deal with Commonwealth complaints? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunicatons by noting that the recent review of the first year of operation of the Community Youth Support Scheme has shown that the young unemployed people involved do benefit from it. However, the problem is the difficulty in reaching the long-term unemployed. Social workers report that the young unemployed tend to rise late and then watch copious amounts of daytime television. Will the Department investigate an imaginative television advertisement for national daytime screening which would reach the young housebound unemployed and point out to them the benefits on offer under the Community Youth Support Scheme? 
I preface my question to the Minister for Education by saying that I realise that the Commonwealth Government is only acting as a centre for dispensing the Social Education Materials Project to state schools. I realise that the method of use of this material and the type of teacher promoting this material are State matters. However, I ask whether the Minister will consider warning the States of the crucial need for care in the choice of teacher and the concern expressed by many involved in SEMP that the material should not be used as a definite course but should be included within the context of other studies. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of allegations in today's Hobart  Mercury  made by the Tasmanian division of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has purposely delayed the appointment of  Mr Des 
Lavey, a union nominee, to the Tasmanian Council for Trade Union Training? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether he is aware of a recent feasibility study on the potential for a beet sugar industry in Tasmania which reported that by 1982 Tasmania could sustain a profitable industry, producing for local, interstate and overseas markets, without damaging the existing cane sugar industry. In view of the important benefits to Tasmania which could accrue from such a venture, I ask the Minister whether any meetings have been held between the Federal and State governments and representatives of the cane sugar industry to discuss the establishment of a major industry such as this in Tasmania. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs seen a report in yesterday's media carrying the headline 'Cruel Hoax for Tasmania ', which stated that the Opposition spokesman for Primary Industry,  Senator Walsh,  had said that a Government document he had just obtained showed that under the Federal Government's new petrol freight subsidy scheme no subsidy would be paid on fuel freighted to Hobart, Launceston, Devonport or surrounding districts? Will the Minister explain to the chamber the Government's policy on the fuel freight subsidy? If  Senator Walsh  was not misquoted, I am sure that it must be through ignorance of Government policy that he made such a ridiculous statement. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether she can give any indication as to what progress has been achieved in respect of the joint Commonwealth-State funding under the community health program for women's refuges in Hobart and Launceston. 
-Will the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs inform the chamber of the financial capabilities of the Tasmanian Government to compete with other States in offering benefits to encourage industries to set up in Tasmania? Is it in fact a matter of the priorities of the State Government? 
-Has the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs seen the report that the Tasmanian Treasurer,  Mr Batt,  claimed that because of Commonwealth cuts Tasmania was down the drain $30m this year and that it has received an increase of only 18.4 per cent in Commonwealth finance in the last two years, that is December 1975 to December 1977, although the consumer price index had increased by 25.9 per cent in that same period? Therefore,  Mr Batt  claims that payments by the Commonwealth have lagged by 7.5 per cent. Will the Minister say whether  Mr Batt's  statement is accurate or whether  Mr Batt  is once again deceiving the people of Tasmania? 
-Can the Minister for Education say whether it is a fact that Western Australia has already legislated to make student union fees voluntary with the students obliged to pay only service fees and that Victoria is also to follow this example in the next couple of weeks? If this is the case, can the Minister assure the chamber that the Government will consider backing these two States and passing similar legislation in the Australian Capital Territory? Many students do not wish any part of their union dues to be used for political activity and have neither the time nor the desire to take part in university union - 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, refers to passports held up in the recent New South Wales postal strike. Is the Minister aware that $20 was charged for replacement passports of three months duration, the issue of which was made necessary because of the protracted industrial dispute in one of this Government's departments? Can the Minister say whether a decision has been made that the $20 charges should be refunded to the persons so inconvenienced as the necessity for replacement passports was completely beyond the control of the passport recipients. 

 -Mr President, I will take very little of the Senate's time. I wish to speak for a few minutes only in the debate on the Superannuation Acts Amendment Bill, mainly in support of  Senator Knight.  As he has said, an anomaly still exists in regard to a divorced spouse which is not dealt with in the amendments to the Superannuation Acts. It was brought to the notice of the Senate in 1976 by  Senator Knight, Senator Ryan  and me. The Bill in 1976 dealt with a legally married spouse living with a contributor at the time of that person's death and the legally married spouse not living with the person at the time of death but dependent upon that person. It also dealt with de facto relationships and the case of a person considered a spouse not legally married to but dependent upon the contributor and living with that person at the time of death. There were other variations. However, the divorced spouse had no entitlements under the legislation. I believe this to be an anomaly, as  Senator Knight  said. Recognition of contributions was made in that Bill. The recognition was made in this way: A widow whose husband has died had entitlement to the pension of her husband. For the first time, once she remarried and was no longer dependent on that pension, she was nevertheless still entitled to keep that pension. This provision clearly recognises, without any shadow of a doubt so far as I am concerned, the spouse 's share in that contribution. The couple may well have been married for 30 to 35 years. I do not think that any honourable senator or any married person would quibble that, where there is one income in the family and a contribution is made to a superannuation fund, the wife certainly helps contribute to that fund. She goes without, perhaps in a personal and a family way, along with her husband in making that contribution. This was definitely recognised in the Bill. The widow was able to retain the pension when she remarried and was no longer dependent upon her former husband. 
The Bill also deals with the case where a separation had occurred before the death of the partner and the partner had been then living in a de facto relationship. It was left to the discretion of the Superannuation Commissioner to divide that pension between the person living in the de facto relationship and the separated spouse if the separated spouse was still dependent upon her husband. This has set a precedent which I believe can be taken into account now in the same way as the divorced spouse is taken into account. If a woman has been living with her husband and has been contributing to the fund for a considerable number of years, at the Commissioner's discretion this provision could apply in the same way as it does to the separated spouse and the de facto relationship. 
We would all know of marriages in which things go wrong in latter years. After a considerable time a marriage may break up. The couple may be divorced and the husband may enter a de facto relationship or he may remarry a couple of years after. For the purposes to the legislation of 1 976, the de facto relationship had to be continuing for only three years. Let me cite this example: A marriage of long duration could break up. The divorce takes place. The husband lives in a de facto relationship for just three years and dies. Because of the de facto relationship of just three years' standing, the whole pension to which the divorced spouse has contributed for a great number of years will be paid to the de facto spouse. The divorced spouse no longer has any entitlement. I ask the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  whether she could bring this to the attention of the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson).  Honourable senators, including myself, have already done so. I ask the Minister to give this matter consideration. I believe that this anomaly is not dealt with fully in the Family Court and could be considered under this legislation. 
There are just two questions I ask of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  Firstly, could the Minister say how much it will cost the Government to make these pensions retrospective to 1976? The second question concerns divorced spouses. At no time did I say that the Government had not considered this matter. I said that divorced spouses were not mentioned in the 1976 Bill whilst other spouses of varying eligibility were.  Senator Knight  and I referred this matter to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  before the Bill was passed in the other place and I know that he gave it consideration. As a matter of fact at that time he looked very sympathetically on the proposed amendment that  Senator Knight  and I put to him and said he would give it consideration following the passage of the Bill. However, as the Minister just said, the Government would be subject to criticism from the private sector if the pension was made available to divorced spouses as the Government now sees the criterion mainly in the form of dependency. I believe that this proposal has been wiped as a result of the Government allowing a widowed spouse who remarries and who is no longer dependent on that pension still to be eligible for the full pension even if, as  Senator Wright  said earlier this evening, she marries someone of considerable wealth. This does away completely with the dependency aspect as the sole criterion for the pension. 
Bearing this in mind the only other reason for her eligibility to that pension, if we disregard the dependency aspect, must be the fact that it is recognised that she has contributed to that pension during her years of marriage. If this is recognised, as to me the Bill certainly underlines, the contribution for a similar period by the divorced spouse must also in terms of justice be recognised. I ask the Minister to consider this aspect. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport clarify the position regarding the 50 per cent student concession given by Qantas Airways Ltd to AUS Student Travel Pty Ltd? Is this concession also given in exactly the same way to other travel agencies handling student travel? 

 -Mr Deputy President, I rise to support the Bill. I should like to refer firstly to the second reading speech of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  which states: 
The purpose of this Bill is to extend the borrowing power of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation to enable it to borrow with provision for the Commonwealth to guarantee repayment, moneys for the purpose of promoting the sale and consumption of apples and pears and apples and pear products. 
I underline the fact that the Corporation is funded by the growers. I think that the community at large tends to overlook this fact. People feel that the Corporation is being funded by the Government. The Corporation is being funded by levies paid by the growers on the export of fresh fruit and on fruit used both for processing and for sale on the fresh fruit market. These levies, which provide moneys for the Corporation, come in at the end of the year, when the fruit has been sold and the Corporation is then flush with funds. However to promote the fruit the Corporation needs this money at a different time. The purpose of the Bill is to enable the Corporation to borrow so that just prior to the peak apple season the money will be available to it for promotional activities. 
As many of the speakers have said today, the fluctuations of this industry have been quite considerable. I can remember the debate in this chamber three seasons ago. It was a very emotional debate.  Senator Wright  put forward the view that the pulling of the apple trees was a tragedy for our island. At that time the Industries Assistance Commission report had just been produced, recommending that the apple industry be phased out altogether. 
I am talking about the IAC report of three seasons ago. 
-That report recommended that, over a three-year period, the Government phase out all support for the apple industry. 
If the honourable senator is the shadow Minister for Primary Industry I suggest that he reads the report again and gets the facts straight, otherwise the Opposition may not be fully aware of what is going on. I can remember that debate very clearly. I can remember  Senator McLaren,  during the course of my speech, asking why the Government did not follow the IAC's recommendations and phase out government assistance for that industry. He assured us at the time that his party in government would have done so and asked why we should not do so. Now I turn to look at years subsequent to that. As every  speaker  in this debate has said, last season was a considerable improvement for the apple industry. This was due in a large measure to the failure of the European apple crops. It was due also to the fact that the Tasmanian exporters- honourable senators should bear in mind that Tasmania supplies two-thirds of this country's apple exportslooked to their laurels, having received bad reports about their apples the previous season from the European market, and supplied better apples and better marketing.  Mr Leckie,  the  Chairman  of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation said that he had been particularly impressed by evidence that the industry was gearing itself to overcome the difficulties facing it, particularly in Tasmania. This is something of which the Apple and Pear Corporation can be justly proud and of which the growers can be justly proud. In the last season we regained some of the old European, including United Kingdom, markets and at higher prices. There was jubilation in Tasmania. People were happy that the apple and pear industry had been saved. They felt that replanting should be considered. 
I meant saved from the IAC's recommendation that it be phased out. I was approached then about nurseries in the Huon area bringing forward young stock for replanting: A few moments ago  Senator Walsh  spoke of the fluctuations of Mother Nature. One day we can have a wonderful crop and the next day it can be struck by storm, tempest and hail. This has occurred in the Huon area. We have had unseasonal frosts and they have badly affected the apple industry. I think that  Senator Wriedt  's suggestion that we should look into this aspect of insurance would be of great benefit and I ask the Minister for Science to look at those suggestions. 
I have referred to last season 's apple crop. The Government brought in the freight equalisation scheme, and this was of benefit to apple growers last season. About $20m has been provided for that freight equalisation scheme. Whilst as  Senator Wriedt  said, these things could be simplified, the local growers were delighted that for the first time they were able to enter the local Australian market. Complaints were received from the other States that their growers were worried because the quality of our apples was so high. This provides very good competition. One of the levies that will be paid to the Corporation will be for the additional fresh fruit sold on the local market. 
As I said, we have regained some old markets in Europe, including the United Kingdom, and at better prices. These efforts need promoting. Perhaps more important are the new market opportunities in the Middle East and Asia. I believe that there is great potential in these areas and that we should look to the Japanese market in particular and the Middle East market. The Corporation needs money to promote apples in those areas. I believe that, if things are handled in a satisfactory manner, those markets will be available to us. In private business up to 10 per cent of a company's budget is spent on advertising. Advertising is the lifeblood of most industries, as it is for all agricultural products and particularly for apples and pears. If we want to sell on overseas markets we have to promote our fruit in the best possible way. Therefore I have great pleasure in supporting this legislation to enable the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation to use its money at the correct time of the year to promote the apple and pear industry. 
-My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, refers to the microfilming of company records. I ask the Attorney-General whether any provision now exists in Federal law to allow microfilm copies of company records to be accepted as legal evidence of the information contained in the original document. The Attorney-General may remember that a senator from my State, former  Senator John  Marriott, in 1973 brought this question to the attention of the then AttorneyGeneral who promised to look into the matter. 

 -Mr President, I should like to say that I was delighted by the parochial question of the honourable senator from Victoria. Since becoming a senator I have almost been brainwashed into believing that such questions were the prerogative of Tasmanian senators. To lay that at rest, I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations: Can the Minister assure the community that the Government will take action if the threat of the waterside workers in Western Australia to declare black the ships whose masters allowed farmers to load sheep is carried out? Is the Government considering taking action under section 45 D of the Trade Practices Act? 
I present the following petition from 102 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
Their concern as regarding the proposed easing of the laws pertaining to the use of Drugs, especially as regards the use of marijuana and other allied drugs. ' 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should- not agree to the easing of the Laws controlling the use of drugs in Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Can the Minister for Education inform the Senate whether the section on alternative life styles in the social education materials program is intended by the originators of the project for the education of 17 and 18- year-old students? I believe  Mr Jones  indicated this recently in a television program. If so, what control can the Minister suggest to safeguard 14 and 15-year-olds from the use of this material by teachers who would use it unselectively in the high schools? I realise that this controversial section is a very small percentage of the total family area, but I do consider it an important one that needs to be treated very sensitively. 
The previous softwood agreement between the States and the Commonwealth expired nearly 12 months ago- on 30 June 1977- and the States are waiting for their money. Consequently I cannot support the amendment which has been foreshadowed by  Senator Rae  and which  will  be moved when  Senator Mulvihill  's amendment has been dealt with. The Bill seeks to implement a further agreement between the States and the Commonwealth for a period of five years. All previous agreements related to an expansion of the planting of softwood timbers. Over the 1 1 years in which the agreements have operated a total of $54m has been spent on loan payments. 
Until last year all agreements related to the expansion of the softwood industry. Last year a review was undertaken by the Commonwealth Government. During that review the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Forestry and Timber Bureau of the Department of Primary Industry carried out several surveys. Those surveys were very extensive. The Bureau came forward with the recommendation that Australia should be self-sufficient. That would be a most economic use of our land. Indeed it would be a great asset to Tasmania. The Bureau also indicated that, owing to a downturn in population forecasts, an expected downturn in the demand for timber could be anticipated. If this occurred there would be an over-supply of timber if the plantings continued at the high level to which we have been accustomed. 
Many considerations have to be taken into account in this regard. I would like to look at one of them, that is, the demand. Demand, particularly among the architectural associations, is often a fickle thing. Demand can fluctuate. In the architectural area timber has been overtaken by steel, concrete and aluminium. Perhaps in these days of energy conservation it would be a good thing to look at the fact that all umber products have a low energy use while concrete, steel and aluminium are very high in terms of energy use. The potential for exporting timber products from Australia is very great. We have had very encouraging estimates in respect of the Asian markets. It is expected that exports to that area will expand. Australian timber is a very superior product, particularly when compared with some of the imported timbers. The Government is considering all aspects of this matter in the context of the necessity to curtail government spending. 
The first plantings under the softwood agreements were made in 1916, which is just 1 1 years ago. The first thinnings will be made in 15 years and other thinnings will be made at intervals up to when the trees reach maturity at 40 years of age. We are now a quarter of the way to that maturity. I agree with  Senator Rae's  statement that if there is an oversupply there is no need to harvest the timber. It can go on growing and it will only increase in value. Over-supply is not a burden. However, the Government has decided that despite this and because of the need to economise it will carry out a review. I make no apology for the need to economise. I feel sometimes that as Government suporters we seem obliged to cover up the feeling that we have to make economies in all areas of expenditure. I cannot see anything wrong with this. I believe that if the BAE report indicated that there would be a drop in demand a responsible government would react to that. So long as the review is maintainedthe Government has promised a review- I believe we would be irresponsible in spending money that it is not essential to spend at this particular time. We have been told tonight that once planting has ceased the long term results will be extremely bad. 1 do not go along with this viewpoint. The Government has promised a review and so long as this review is looked at I see no harm. 
As I said, the States are in full agreement. They are waiting for their money and I believe this Bill must be passed. Like  Senator Archer,  I believe a committee could be set up to look into this matter following the passage of this Bill. I would be in full agreement with having this committee look not only at the softwood industry but also at the whole of the forestry industry in Australia. I believe that the hardwoods need looking into just as much as the softwoods do, and this, I believe, would be a responsible action to take in this area. 
The Government has decided in this new agreement that it will share with the States the full cost of plantings during the five years and the cost of maintaining and tending all existing plantings for four of the five years, but in this first year, 1977-78, there will be a limit on expenditure of $4.2m. Again, because of the cost limitation, there will be no assistance for purchased land in this first year. But the Government already has assured the States that there will be a review at the end ofthe first year on 1 July 1978. Up till then, we expect all the plantings to be done on cleared land, but on 1 July 1978 the position will be reviewed and more land is required additional finance will be available for clearing land for planting. 
One particular area of concern to me which has been mentioned by  Senator Grimes  tonight is that of maintenance. I looked fo'r the definition of the word 'maintenance'. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  mentioned this in his second reading speech. I remind the Senate of this particular area. The Minister said: 
On the basis of available information the Government concluded that further agreements along the lines of those authorised by the 1967, 1972 and 1976 Acts were not justified at this time. It considered however that it should continue to provide finance to meet the same proportion of the States ' maintenance expenditure on the total area of softwood plantations established in the 1 1-year period, as the area of Commonwealth assisted plantings bears to the total area of planting in that period. 
I looked for the definition of the word 'maintenance' both in this Bill and in the original Bill. I found that in the Bill before us tonight there was only a definition of 'planting' and a definition of tending planting'. In the first agreement of 1967 there was also no mention of maintenance but there was mention of planting, tending planting and then replanting failed planting. It is the replanting failed planting that I believe is the equivalent of maintenance. This is the area of concern that I share with  Senator Grimes.  1 believe that replanting is essential in areas that have been damaged by fire, disease, drought or animals. We find that up to date fire has not been a problem in the softwood industry. Out of the 600,000 hectares in Australia, fire has not destroyed any greater area than 1,000 hectares at the one time in the past 10 to 15 years. However, in other kinds of Australian forestry, greater fires have occurred. Areas of up to 50,000 hectares have been devastated by fire. Whilst it is not a problem at the moment in the softwood areas, as the softwood forests increase I believe that fire could become a problem. 
If we look at disease we find that there is a fungus disease called dothistroma. It is not a concern in Tasmania at the moment but one is not permitted to bring seedlings into that State from other States and nurseries spray in anticipation of it being introduced. But diseases also can destroy quite large areas. If this occurs, I believe they should be replaced. Animal destruction can be quite considerable, particularly in the softwood areas. I am not referring to the first two years of planting when baits may be used; I am talking about later periods when the trees are 6 feet to 12 feet high. These softwood plantations can be damaged considerably through being ringbarked by rats and brush possums. They can cause devastation to large areas. I believe that out of 7,000 acres planted in the last five years, in some areas in southern Tasmania 30 per cent has been destroyed by ringbarking by rats and brush possums. Thirty per cent is a quite large area of those 7,000 acres. I believe that these areas also should be replanted under the maintenance that we have promised to the States. Drought also causes large scale failure in some areas in Australia. However, 1 have spoken to the Minister about these problems and he has assured me that he will look into this area. We can assure  Senator Grimes  that his area will be looked into by the Minister and I am quite certain that he will rectify this situation for the States. 
We heard from  Senator McLaren  this evening of the devastation caused to our environment by the woodchip industry. A lot of emotion has been displayed about our management in the forestry area, particularly in the woodchip area. I wonder whether  Senator McLaren  really has done his homework properly on this matter. Has he gone ito the affected areas? Has he looked at the various reafforestation programs after a period of time or has he, along with many of the other emotional people, just gone into the forest after the initial burn-off when, admittedly, the place looks as though an atomic bomb has hit it. It looks bad and it is bad. But let  Senator McLaren  go back to the forest to have a look in three years, five years and then 10 years. 
Debate interrupted. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Following the concern expressed by the Government at the number of Vietnamese refugees coming by boat to Darwin and the Government's attempt to stop these unheralded arrivals by sending additional immigration officers to Indo-China, I ask: Is there any truth in the claim that following the previous Government's ratification of the 1967 extensions to the United Nations Convention on Refugees, Australia is now obliged to accept all refugees regardless of number without any restriction on their entry due to a criminal record, political activity or health? Is it also true that no Asian country has ratified that Convention, which leaves Australia in a unique position in this part of the world? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Will he consider allowing tax rebates to single parent families for the cost of putting children in child care centres during the hours of the parents' employment? I ask this question as it seems to be an anomaly that costs for a housekeeper can be claimed as a tax rebate but moneys paid to child care centres cannot. 
-I was concluding my contribution to the debate on the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill 1978 when the Senate adjourned on 3 May. I reiterate that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has already stated that he would be quite happy for a committee to be set up to investigate the general matter of reafforestation in Australia. I urge the Senate to accept this proposal. However, I suggest that in setting up a committee to deal with softwoods alone we would not be facing all the problems associated with forestry. I implore the Senate, particularly in view of the situation in the hardwood industry in Tasmania which requires some urgent attention, to pass this Bill and to set up a committee to look into reafforestation generally, covering not only the softwoods area but also the hardwood area. The need for such a committee has been stressed by the Tasmanian Timber Association and I would very much appreciate the Senate taking that Association's wishes into consideration. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications follows from a question asked by  Senator Colston.  It arises from my concern that the influence of television on children is so great that we have a duty to ensure that optimum standards prevail in respect of both children's programs and television advertising. Could a permanent advisory body on children 's television be established to operate in conjunction with the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal? 
-Can the Minister representing the Treasurer advise the chamber with which industry the kelp harvesters of King Island are associated for sales tax purposes? Are they associated with the fishing industry, which would seem reasonable as they, like the fishing industry, reap the harvest of the sea; or are they  considered to be outside the whole area of primary industry? If so, can the Minister explain the legislation which covers these kelp harvesters? 
Pursuant  to order, I present the report from Estimates Committee C on the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1977-78, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-So much has been said today and so much has been written during the last week in tribute to  Sir Robert  Menzies that 1 find it hard to add anything new. As so many people have said, he was Australia's greatest statesman. He created the most stable era this country has ever known. It was because people felt secure under his leadership that they re-elected him for 1 6 years as their Prime Minister. At the end of that time it was not the people but he himself who said that he should retire. There have been repeated references to  Sir Robert's  great oratory and lively wit. Some have called it a devastating wit and his opponents have called him arrogant. But it does not seem to matter what people have said. The people more than just respected him; they loved him.  His  comment that all a Prime Minister needed was a third of the people to love him, a third to respect him and a third to hate him was an underestimation of the people's regard for him. If any proof of the affection they held for him was needed, it was demonstrated in Melbourne last Friday when thousands of people lined the streets to pay him homage. It was a very moving experience to see, as I did on television, those people joining in the service as it was relayed and singing the hymns along with the congregation. Few people have commanded such respect and love from a cross-section of the community- from the man in the street to Queen Elizabeth herself- and this must be of great comfort to Dame Pattie and her family. 
I had known  Sir Robert  since I was a little girl. He and my father were not only colleagues but also great friends. They showed great loyalty to each other, as  Senator Wright  has said today. I remember my father telling me the story of the time when one of the so-called Press barons attempted to pressure  Sir Robert.  This occurred following the imposition of newsprint rationing during the war. One of those Press barons came to see  Sir Robert  and threatened him by saying that if he did not sack my father from  Sir Robert's  Cabinet- he was then Minister for Trade and Customs-  Sir Robert  would lose the support of that newspaper. Needless to say  Sir Robert  showed the Press baron the door. History records that the Minister for Trade and Customs was not sacked but that the Government did lose the support of that newspaper, which changed its allegiance thereby causing a considerable change in the fortunes of the government of the day. 
There is nothing that I can say that will add to the stature of this man or the respect that I hold for him. I thought that little story would be just one more example of the loyalty and integrity of that man to his colleagues even though the cost at that time was high. I would like to extend my sympathy to Dame Pattie and her family. Faith and time are the only healers and, whilst it may be hard for the members of his family to recognise that at the moment, I am sure that over the years their sorrow will be lessened and they, too, will realise that we are all the better for his having lived amongst us. 
-I seek leave to table written replies received by Estimates Committee C since the Committee reported to the Senate on 1 1 May 1978. 
Leave granted. 
I table the replies and seek leave to have them incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I direct my question, which relates to public service matters, to the Minister for Social Security. Can the Minister say what stage the proposed legislation regarding the abolition of paternity leave and the placing of restrictions on maternity leave has reached and when this legislation is likely to be brought before the Parliament? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, refers to the recent media reports that an estimated one million Australians are functionally illiterate, that is, they cannot cope with the basic reading and writing tasks that the community requires of them, such as the reading of road signs or the writing of their own name. Since the report states that only 2 per cent of these people are receiving remedial help, can the Minister say whether a proportion of the budget of the Curriculum Development Centre has been spent on supplying both schools and adult education centres with the necessary materials to rectify this appalling state of affairs? 
-My question is a follow-up of a question I have asked previously. Can the Minister representing the Treasurer now say with which industry the kelp harvesters of King Island are associated for the purposes of sales tax relief on commodities they use in their work? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations say how many builders labourers voted in the recent election for the position of Secretary of the Builders Labourers Federation? What percentage does that figure represent of the total union membership? Does the Minister consider it to be a true reflection of the wishes of the majority of that membership? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health seen the report on teenage smoking which states that in New South Wales alone last year adolescents between 12 and 17 years of age spent $40m on cigarettes and that the total amount spent on cigarettes in Australia last year has been estimated at $ 1,200m? In the light of these figures, can the Minister say how much was spent on health care insurance directly out of the pockets of Australian citizens last year? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications tell members of the community at large what action they personally can take to voice their opinions as to whether any particular radio station should or should not have its licence renewed? Would their opinions be taken into consideration if they were so expressed? Does the Minister consider that the public should have a say in this regard? I am referring to the continual representations I receive regarding radio station 2XX, which is a station that is guilty of putting over offensive material, and the fact that people - 

 -Mr Chairman, I should like a little advice. As  Senator Sim  said a little earlier, Senate Estimates Committee C was also involved in a similar dispute. However, at the moment I presume you would like me to confine myself to the matter  Senator Sim  has before the Committee at the moment. 
I should like first to point out to  Senator Douglas  McClelland and  Senator Sibraa  that over the past years Advances to the Minister for Finance, previously Advances to the Treasurer, have increased considerably since 1970-71. There was a peak in 1975-76 when it obviously got out of hand. Since then it has been reduced considerably. If  Senator Douglas  McClelland has a look at those figures he will find that the appropriations for the Advance to the Minister really got out of hand in 1975-76. However, speaking to the motion before the Committee, I suggest that  Senator Rae's  committee also look at the matter of the consideration of the statement on the Advance to the Minister for Finance. I believe it was usually scrutinised in the Committee of the Whole at the end of the year. 
Yes. It has not been scrutinised since the double dissolution in 1975. 1 suggest that the Committee look at that and see whether that procedure should not be reintroduced. While the expenditure has already occurred at that time at least the Senate is aware of what is going on. I suggest that the Committee look at this area. I shall talk later on Senate Estimates Committee C. 
Hopefully we will be able to deal with this group in the time which remains. Estimates Committee C was concerned in a dispute, as was Estimates Committee A. The dispute with which we were concerned was between two departments- the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Department of Finance. The dispute was about two figures. The first related to the assisted migration program and the second to the movements for disembarkation. The Committee was concerned that such disputes will occur from time to time. But we were particularly concerned that appropriations are made for these purposes under the Advance to the Minister for Finance. If we turn to the  Parliamentary Handbook on Commonwealth Finance Affairs  we find under the section relating to the Advance to the Treasurer, which is now the Advance to the Minister for Finance, that various appropriations are permitted. All of these appropriations are for recoupment to the Advance to the Minister for Finance. They appear in Appropriation Act (No. 2) and Supply Act (No. 1 ) and Supply Act (No. 2). 
The only area in which there is no recoupment to the Advance to the Minister for Finance is stipulated very clearly to be for unforeseen and urgent expenditures which arise between the time of the preparation of Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) and the close of the financial year. Our concern is that these matters of dispute which were indicated to us in the explanations for the additional estimates are, and remain, a charge to the Advance to the Minister for Finance. We feel that this is not the appropriate area for such additional estimates to be listed. We feel that perhaps additional appropriation Bills should be set aside for disputes which have not been resolved before the Appropriation Bills go to the Commonwealth Government Printer. The Committee felt that they could be shown in an appropriation Bill (No. 5) and an appropriation Bill (No. 6). The Committee felt that perhaps the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  might suggest that in future these estimates for disputed amounts about which agreement has not been reached before the printing of the Appropriation Bills might be dealt with in additional appropriation Bills and not come under the Advance to the Minister for Finance. We feel that there is no place for such estimates in the Advance to the Minister for Finance. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I preface it by drawing attention to recent reports that strains of a resistant type of malaria, which is now a major cause of fatality in many parts of Asia, are being imported to 
Australia. I ask the Minister whether, in view of the increased risk of this infection spreading, malaria could be reclassified as a notifiable disease? 
-This Bill gives effect to several matters. Some amendments will have the effect of liberalising some of the tax laws and some of them will be restrictive, primarily blocking tax dodges. One area that has not received enough publicity, I believe, is the provision that gifts of works of art to public libraries, art galleries, museums and to the Australiana Fund will qualify as tax deductions under more liberal conditions. At present a deduction may be claimed if the work of art has been purchased in the previous 12 months. The deduction is based on the cost to the donor of that work of art or its current value, whichever is the less. Consequently artists who wish to donate a work of art of their own are virtually stopped from doing so because the lesser of the two costs would be the costs of the canvas and the paint and not the cost of their time. The result has been that the arts have suffered quite considerably. I believe that government should encourage the arts and should encourage the giving of gifts so that substantial gifts held by families can be made available for public viewing. Many people believe that the arts should be self-supporting. I think perhaps the best way I can describe how I feel about the matter is to read to the Senate a letter which was published in the Hobart  Mercury some  time ago. It was written by Dianne Large, who says: 
Social welfare should encompass mind as well as spirit. Civilisations are judged in retrospect by their arts. Imagine the Greeks without their sculptures, plays and architecture; Medieval man without his cathedrals; the Elizabethans without their poets, playwrights and musicians; Italy without its art and opera. The effects of the arts reach out to all members of society, engendering thought, enlightenment, comparison and a sense of proportion- very real weapons against the materialism which is at the root of our declining civilisation. It is interesting to note that Marie Curie, when struggling in Paris, thought it worth going without food in order to visit the theatre regularly. There are no longer moneyed private patrons. Because, wealth, through taxation, is spread more evenly, the beneficiaries must shoulder the responsibilities that were once the duties of the rich. 
I believe that that letter explains better that I can the benefits which this legislation will bring. I have just explained the present position. This Bill makes it possible for works of art which have been in a family for many years to be donated to the areas I have already mentioned. They may also be donated for the purpose of claiming a taxation deduction at market value. So the artist himself or herself is then able to donate his or her own works of art. The market value must be determined by approved valuers, and committees will be set up by New South Wales and Victoria for the purpose of approving values. As I have said, gifts are able to be made to the Australiana Fund. Donations of works of art, cash or furniture can be made to Government House, Kirribilli House, Admiralty House and the Lodge. The amendments contained in this legislation are to be made retrospective to 1 January of this year. The Bill also contains other liberalising amendments. 
However, I wish now to speak about the restrictive amendments which will close the loopholes and which are taken advantage of by the tax dodgers. I am not a lawyer, but I believe that the intention of the law should be upheld. The High Court of Australia has brought down a decision which, in effect, provides that a law need not have the meaning intended by the Government which originally enacted it. I believe that a responsible government must react to that decision, and that is what this Government has done. 
Tax avoidance is practised by all sections of the community and not just by the wealthy, as is so often said. It is practiced by pensioners, by low income earners, as well as by the very wealthy people. The very wealthy people can do it just so much better and on a much grander scale. The pensioner can get away with a bit of tax avoidance perhaps by not declaring a boarder. Low income earners can get away with doing odd gardening work, household duties and things like that. The wealthy have been able to get away with tax avoidance on such a grand scale that I believe it is time the Government stepped in and, particularly in the case of the Curran scheme, made the amendments retrospective to the time when it was first announced that such an amendment would be introduced. 
Australians have always considered their Government to be fair game. Beating the tax man was just good sport, and if you were able to do it you were just a plain smartie. You were not diddling the Government; you were just being clever. As soon as we closed one loophole we found that in a very short time the accountants or other people located another loophole which was perhaps bigger and better than ever. There has been a lot of talk about the platform of the Liberal Party. We are reminded that part of our platform is to ensure that taxation adjustments do not have a retrospective effect. However, no mention is made of the fact that taxation should be equitable as between taxpayers in similar positions. As that was the intention of the law, I believe the Government has every right to make the legislation retrospective to the time when it first suggested it would close the loopholes. No mention is made in our platform of loopholes. There is no warning about loopholes being closed. I believe that where retrospectivity is mentioned in that platform it refers only to the making of new laws. 
I wish to deal with two aspects of this matter. The first is gifts to charities and the second is the Curran scheme. The amendments relating to the Curran scheme are the only ones being made retrospective. However, I wish to speak first about gifts to charities. I believe that great abuse has occurred in this area. The donor makes himself out to be a good fellow. The example which the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  gave in his second reading speech, I believe, points out just how corrupt some of these schemes have become. A donor can say: 'All right I will give a $10,000 gift to a certain charity'. He takes $1,500 out of his own pocket and approaches the agent promoting the scheme to lend him $8,500. That makes up the $10,000 donation. So that amount is then given to the charity. The charity, by prior agreement, then returns 98.8 per cent of that $10,000 to the promoter of the scheme who keeps the $8,500 that he lent originally plus a very nice fat interest payment of $1,380 from the charity for the short time that it had that money. That leaves the charity with $120 out of the $10,000. Of course, the donor, who makes himself out to be a good fellow by giving $ 10,000 to the charity, can then claim that amount as a tax deduction. That is the type of person with whom the Government is trying to deal in closing these loopholes. That type of person is just not genuine. He is a tax dodger of the worst sort. Genuine gifts will not be affected by the present amendments. I believe that we should have closed these loopholes some time ago. At least we are getting around to closing them now. 
There has been much controversy about the Curran scheme. If we look at gifts made to charity under that scheme we will realise that this activity is just as dishonest- perhaps even more so- than activities involving donations to charity. As far as I am aware, no objection has been made to the fact that we are closing the loopholes taken advantage of by the Curran scheme; the objection is to the fact only that we are seeking to do so retrospectively. Nobody says that that activity should go on. Nobody says that we should not close the loopholes. There is just a great scream that we should not make our amendments retrospective. 
In spite of all the lobbying that we have had from all the accountants from all over the place, from lawyers and from other people in these areas- we have certainly received many dozens of representations- I have not had one representation from any accountant from Tasmania, which is my State. I gather that the accountants and lawyers in my own State are more honest that the accountants and lawyers in the other States. They have not been indulging in these schemes. 
-There is a certain amount of hilarity amongst the honourable senators from the larger States. I can assure  Senator Tehan  that there is not one accountant or lawyer indulging in Curran schemes in Tasmania. 
I can give  Senator Lewis  such an assurance because the Taxpayers' Association, the  President  of which is a Tasmanian, has asked around all the accountants in Tasmania and none of them have had anything to do with Curran schemes. 
I believe that the  President  of that Association has done his homework and has done it well. We have not had one representation from any Tasmanian accountant. I certainly have had dozens of representations from accountants in Victoria, New South Wales and the other States. I think that these schemes should be looked at. There has been tremendous abuse of the taxation system. It has been estimated to cost from $ 1,500m down to $500m. If it is $500m, then that is the amount that the Government has just given back to the taxpayers in the latest tax rebates. I believe it is an amount that we ought to look at very hard. We cannot have $500m being taken out of the taxpayers' pockets. 
We certainly would have to pay it and so would the low income earner. Let us examine the history of this matter. We were given a detailed warning by  Mr Frank  Crean in December 1974 that this loophole would be closed. The Liberal-National parties agreed with it wholeheartedly- there was no disagreement: So, the taxpayers knew that both sides of this chamber agreed with  Mr Frank  Crean in December 1974 that this tax loophole should be closed. This was referred to again in the last Budget speech by the then Treasurer,  Mr Lynch:  There is no doubt that it was referred to and he said that legislation to close this tax loophole would be introduced in the Budget session of Parliament. Just because it was not brought in during that Budget session arid was brought in five months later, people are screaming about the retrospectivity of the legislation. But is this true retrospectivity? I do not believe it is. It is not retrospective to an earlier financial year: There is no penalty incurred; there is no payment of additional tax on income that has already been taxed. I should like to refer to the Taxpayers' Association manual of 22 April 1978 which states: 
What is retrospectivity? ... Is the position different if a Treasurer makes a clear and detailed announcement that some action is to be taken as from a certain date? Of course it is - 
That is not retrospectivity-  and that is what happened with the Curran schemealthough it would now be unreasonable to date the changes back to December 1974. . . . In the context of Budget announcements, normally we accept that they will apply from 1 July- no one regards that hiatus of some six weeks as representing retrospectivity. Had this legislation been introduced in September or October, most with a pecuniary interest would have accepted maybe grudgingly the new law applying for the full financial year.  Mr Lynch  did say in his Budget Speech that legislation would be brought down in the Budget session. But if Budget session legislation with a 1 July start-date is acceptable, why is it different now that a later date has been selected on the one matter on which a warning had been given? People 'doing Currans' knew the risks. 
That is what the Taxpayers' Association points out. It points out that people were well aware of the risks, were well aware of the advertisements offering money back if legislation was made retrospective. The people were aware of the risks and if they cared to go along with the scheme and take risks then I believe that is their problem. They were aware of the risks and they must have allowed for them in their planning. After all, the people involved are not out of pocket. I believe the Government is right in bringing down this retrospective legislation. I have great pleasure in supporting the Bill which is before the Senate. 
My question to the Minister for Social Security concerns the future role of the Good Neighbour movement. I ask whether the Government intends to accept the recommendations of the Galbally inquiry, which were so welcomed by the  President  of the Good Neighbour Council of New South Wales. If so, who will assume responsibility for the home tutor scheme, through which in the past the 
Good Neighbour movement has provided thousands of tutors to instruct migrants in Englishmainly women who have been isolated in the home by a language barrier. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I draw his attention to an article on public radio in Canberra which appeared recently in the Sunday  Sun.  The article stated: 
A fight over radio licence between the Country Party and local community groups is dividing Canberra. 
The article further stated that a group called the Monaro Community Broadcasting Society Incorporated is making a determined attempt to take over the 2XX licence. Can the Minister confirm or deny this allegation, for the benefit of the chamber? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to the report recently released to the Tasmanian Government concerning the drinking, smoking and vitamin pill consumption of secondary school students in Hobart? I cite one example. Nearly 50 per cent of 13-year-old boys and 38 per cent of 13-year-old girls are consuming alcohol. The Professor of Child Health at the University of Tasmania, Professor Lewis, pointed out that the report shows that drinking and smoking habits, particularly of 13-year olds, have increased alarmingly since 1 97 1 despite all the money spent on education in this area. He said that this proved that the type of education presently being undertaken had been a complete failure and, he believed, positively counter-productive. I ask the Minister: Before any further education is undertaken in this area will the Minister encourage pilot schemes to bc implemented to ascertain the type of education and the type of educators that will give the results that the community desires? 
This Bill concerns the restructuring of the Trade Union Training Authority.  Senator Mulvihill  asked why it has to be restructured and why the radical surgery. I think that the community as a whole is looking to the Authority as a method of creating peace in our industrial relations. This has not occurred. There has been considerable fighting among the left and right wings of the trade union movement about trade union training. I will come to that matter a little later. I believe, as  Mr Clyde  Cameron said, that the community has regarded the Authority as a vital step towards industrial peace. Consequently, the taxpayer is prepared now to spend $3m in the hope that this will be one method of bringing peace in our industrial relations. 
The Trade Union Training Authority has not been operating for long. Management training has been in existence for many years. In the past the emphasis has been mainly on company viability and profits, but I believe that that attitude is changing quite considerably. The emphasis is now being placed on what it should have been in the past- man-management, human relations and personal relationships. I believe that management is waking up at last and is now seeing the necessity for management training. I believe- I have said that in this place many times before- that unless management takes a new look at things and unless it trains its supervisors and foremen to take a more man-management approach, a more humane approach, we will not get very far. I do not believe that we can expect anyone to do a job eight hours a day, five days a week. We cannot expect him to go to his place of employment and to do a job if he does not know why he is doing it and what pan he is playing in his company. He has no job satisfaction because he has no loyalty to his  industry.  He does not understand it. Nobody has ever explained to him how important his job is to that industry. Nobody has explained the problems of his industry. Nobody has explained to him the competition his industry faces. Nobody has ever bothered to tell him that he is any more than just a cog in the wheel of the industry. I think that this has altered. I believe that management is seeing the light and that the emphasis is turning in this direction. 
I believe that the Trade Union Training Authority has a tremendous part to play.  Mr Clyde  Cameron, when he set up the College, had in his sights a dream that this College would result in industrial peace in this country. It was only last month when the Bill was being debated in the other House that in the form of an interjection  Mr Clyde  Cameron said that he had always said it would take some time before enough recruits could be harvested from the college to have an impact on the peace of the industry. I believe that the whole of the Government was behind the Clyde Cameron College when it was brought into being. The Government was hopeful that it would work and would work well. However, there have been problems. As I said to  Senator Mulvihill  a few moments ago and as he well knows, those problems included the in-fighting between the unions over the trade union training. Some of the unions will not have anything to do with that training; they keep out of it altogether. 
The Builders Labourers Federation will not have anything to do with it. Many unions have been fighting over the Trade Union Training Authority and I believe that the restructuring of this Authority will have the desired effect. Let us turn to the structuring of this Authority. When the Government realised the pitfalls of the trade union training as it existed it set up a tripartite committee to inquire into the matter. An in-depth inquiry took place. The committee consulted all sections of the community. It took 400 submissions and interviewed over 100 people. The Government has accepted the gist of all the recommendations that have come from this inquiry. It has decided to restructure the Authority in the following way: There will be a National Director and an Executive Board. The Australian Council will be retained as an advisory board and a link with the board and councils. The 6 State Councils will be retained and the Director of the Clyde Cameron College will also be retained.  His  responsibilities will be expanded and he will be re-named the Director of Studies. 
Perhaps if we look at the composition of these various levels we will have a better insight into how they will actually work. Let us start from the bottom and work up. I think we will then be able to see how the Executive Board will be composed. The function of the State Councils will be to advise and to make recommendations to the Authority in relation to trade union training in their particular State. The State Councils will comprise part-time members. The  chairman  will be appointed by the Minister. An officer from the government department will also be appointed by the Minister. Three people will represent the relevant trade union organisations. One person will represent the division of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Association for the State; one person will represent the division of the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations for the State; one person will represent the branch of the Confederation of Australian Industry for the State; and one person will be appointed by the Minister to promote the interests of technical and further education. This is a new implementation and- 1 believe it will create a broader view on the State Councils. The members to whom I have referred are to be appointed after full consultation with the relevant body by the Minister. 
Then we go further up the ladder to the Australian Council, whose function it is to advise, and make recommendations to, the Authority in relation to the planning and development of programs for trade union training in Australia and the evaluation thereof. It too comprises parttime members. One, who is to be the  Chairman,  will be appointed by the Minister, as will the National Director. The remaining membership will be made up of the following: The Secretary or, in his stead, another officer of the Department appointed by the Minister, five representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, a representative of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations, a representative of the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations, a representative of the Confederation of Australian Industry, a representative of the Commissioner of the Tertiary Education Commission- such representation being an innovation- and, as a further innovation, a representative who will be a member of the Parliament appointed by the Prime Minister, and one who will be a member of the Parliament appointed by the Leader of the Opposition. The representatives of the various bodies I have mentioned will be appointed by the Minister in consultation with those bodies. All of the members of the Executive Board will be derived directly from the Australian Council. There will thus be a flow-on of information, a direct link between Council and board. The Board will be a small body of eight members, each of whom, with the exception of the National Director, will be parttime. The  chairman  will be the  chairman  of the Australian Council. The employers' representative will be their representative on that Council. The Government Department representative also will be a member of the Council. The four union members likewise will belong to it. As  Senator Mulvihill  has said, this will result in there being four members from the unions and four from other areas of the community. There will be at all levels employer representationanother innovation. This will be of great advantage because, as long as there is consultation in these councils and on the Executive Board something can be achieved. While employers are completely kept out there can be no consultation. That could have only a most detrimental effect. I sincerely hope that there will indeed be further consultation, and that in the State councils we will have programs where management and union training can be taken as part of the same course. This is essential if we are ever to reach the decisions that I hope will ensure industrial peace. 

 Senator Mulvihill emphasised that he saw no reason why the proposed restructuring should take place. Perhaps I could express the position as I see it. Every State runs its branch of the Trade Union Training Authority in a different way. As  Senator Mulvihill  will know, some of the branches are run by more right wing unions and in other States they are run by more left wing unions. 
-That is right, but unfortunately this leads to a lot of fighting and bickering. This is certainly what happens under the present scheme. When we met an officer from one of the States who was involved in trade union training, he said that he would not have a bar of the Tasmanian method. 
Sentor Mulvihill- I have lived with that all my life in my State. 
I am well aware that the honourable senator would have. 
-Therefore, it really disturbs me that the Opposition does not believe that this restructuring will perhaps bring all sections together in consultation. This representative from another State told me that he would not send one of his members down to Tasmania for training, that it would be the last thing that he would do. That is because in Tasmania trade union training is run in a very responsible way. It has been proved that the organisation is responsible. 
-Because we hope that the position will be the same throughout the whole of Australia. If we change the scheme to bring more sections of the community into the Trade Union Training Authority, then consultation will be right at the centre or right at the core of events. This cannot help but do some good. I believe that the new structure will be the first step in assisting Clyde Cameron's dream.  Mr Clyde  Cameron did have a dream of harmony both in respect of trade union training and management training in industry. I believe that his concept of a college was to bring industrial harmony. This restructuring will be the first step towards this. We all hope that it will fulfil this dream. It gives me much pleasure to support the Trade Union Training Authority Amendment Bill. 
I will be very brief. I just want to join previous speakers in paying a tribute to the retiring senators. This is the first batch of senators that I have seen go from this chamber. Although some of the older staff members may say, 'Well, they come and they go', their absence will certainly be a great loss to me. I do not believe that after they have retired the Senate will be the same to me. We are losing many of the older members of the Senate. I believe that the Senate will lose a good deal in experience and the history that will go with them. Since I have been a member of the Senate I have been able to make friends with members on both sides of the chamber and I would put this down to the Senate committee system which I believe is a magnificent system. 
Having sat on a committee with Bill Brown and Tom Tehan, I am very grateful for the committee system. I have really enjoyed your company, Tom. You have helped me considerably on committees and I certainly am very sad to see you go. Bill Brown is a thorough gentleman. Whenever there have been people appearing to give evidence before a committee who have been the slightest bit nervous- and sometimes Senate standing committees can be a bit awe inspiring- he was able to make them feel entirely at home and completely relaxed. We all could have learned from watching the way Bill spoke to them gently. Bill, we will miss you very much on our committees. 
I am going to miss Janine Haines terribly. We need more women in this Parliament, and she has proved that we need more women. She has done a tremendous job. We need Janine and I sincerely hopes she comes back. Perhaps more women on this side of the House would be a great help. 
I now turn to my great guide, mentor and friend,  Sir Reginald  Wright. He is the most generous man I have ever known. I think that anyone who has been on a campaign trail with Reg will perhaps understand what I mean. He has made me stand up on the rails at cattle sales and yell and if I was not loud enough then he certainly was able to yell over the top of my voice. He has taken me to hotels all the way between Hobart and Launceston and afterwards had a meeting either in the very north or the very south. It has been quite an experience. He has invited us all to go to Upper Castra to visit him there. All one will have to do is to ask for the local Tasmanian tiger and the people will show you where to find him. It will not be an extinct breed on our island as long as  Sir Reginald  remains alive. I would like to thank you very much, Reg, for everything you have done for me and for all your help and assistance.  Mr President,  you may not realise that in Hobart we have a magnificent building, and I am sure that Ken Wriedt will agree with this. All the Liberals' offices are on the one floor. Ken 's office is above us. I am not quite sure why he does not come down and join us. First there is Reg's office, then Bruce Goodluck 's, then Mike Townley 's and then mine. Reg had a lot to put up with while he had the three newies around him and he ruled us with a rod of iron, but he gradually let go the strings and honourable senators can see the result. Bruce is very subdued now, so is Michael and  Sir Reginald  certainly has me under his thumb. I would like to thank you once again, Reg, and wish all the retiring senators well in their retirement. 

 -Mr Chairman, I join my colleagues in congratulating you on your elevation to the office of  chairman  of Committees. I look forward to serving under you. I should like to bring up one point to which  Senator Harradine  referred. He spoke of secrecy between individual members and the research officers. I do not believe that this is in the spirit of the original experiment. It is not my understanding that individual members will be able to approach the research officers and ask them to investigate secret pieces of information. After all, our own research officers can indulge in this sort of research. I believe that is just. I am certainly not saying that it is not. The research officer attached to an Estimates committee serves the committee as a whole and not individual members of the committee in such a way. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. It relates to the Australian tourist industry. Will the Minister give the numbers of staff employed by the Australian Tourist Commission within Australia and overseas? Will he indicate where these staff are located? 
Will the Minister for Social Security enlarge on the guidelines the Government proposes to lay down regarding means testing payments of family allowance on the basis of a child 's income? 
-We are debating the Commonwealth Employment Service Bill 1978, which is a direct result of the report of the Review of the Commonwealth Employment Service which the Government in October 1976 requested  Mr J.  D. Norgard to conduct. One of the comments made by  Mr Norgard-  this was also mentioned in the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)-  was that the CES offices were, at the time of his investigation, a 1946 model trying to cope with a 1977-style problem. 
Let us look at how that problem arose. I agree that, in 1 946, there was no unemployment problem and therefore the CES offices really did not have to be of any great consequence. As a matter of fact, in 1973- just as the Labor Party came to power- the CES offices did not have very much to cope with. As a matter of fact, even a year after the Labor Party came to power- that is, in 1974- the CES offices did not have much to cope with because at that stage the Labor Minister for Labour and Immigration said that we had 'overemployment'. That is a direct quote. In 1974, unemployment stood at 2.1 per cent. One year later- that is, two years after Labor came to office- unemployment rose from 2. 1 per cent to 5.2 per cent. So, in one year alone, it rose by 3. 1 per cent. The next year that Labor was in power- that is, in 1975- unemployment rose by another 0.4 per cent. So, when we came to office in January 1976, unemployment stood at 5.6 per cent. 
I will come to it,  Senator Georges.  Do not be impatient. In January 1977, our first year in officeunemployment rose by 0.2 per cent. So unemployment went from 5.6 per cent when Labor left office to 5.8 per cent in our first year in office.  Senator Georges  can ring the Parliamentary Library and get the statistics himself. They are perfectly accurate.  Senator Georges  asks me what the unemployment rate is now. At present it is 6.2 per cent. I can advise him of that because I have just telephoned the Bureau of Statistics. 
No, it is not a decrease. It is up by 0.4 per cent. In the three years we have been in office, unemployment has increased from that terrible figure of 5.6 per cent in January when we came to office by only 0.6 per cent. 
People have been brain-washed into believing that we do not care about unemployment. I would like them to look at how Labor coped with the terrific increase in unemployment in one year. 
-Just a minute. When Labor was in power it had to cope with 3 1 1 , 596 unemployed. Let us look at how it coped. The Labor Government introduced a Regional Employment Development scheme. We all know what happened to the RED scheme. It just did not work and Labor abolished it before it went out of office. Labor then introduced the National Employment and Training scheme. In the full year 1975-76 the NEAT scheme coped with 10,500 out of the 311,596 unemployed. Apart from that, all Labor had was a 1 946 model of a CES. Labor did nothing to assist the CES offices to cope with this tremendous influx of people who lined up before their counters. 
Let us look at the youth unemployment during that period. When Labor came to office there were 80,395 youth unemployed who were under 21 years of age. When Labor left office there were 152,543 youth unemployed. Now the Labor Party is trying to say that we are the ones who are not concerned about unemployment. It tried to cope with these tremendous unemployment figures with the RED scheme, which it abolished, and a NEAT scheme which only worked for those who were advantaged and who had the brains to cope with it. I will explain to honourable senators in a minute a little about that point I have made. Labor also had the old 1 946 model CES offices. That is the way in which it attempted to cope with the tremendous unemployment that it brought about. Let us look at that NEAT scheme. As I said a little earlier, when Labor was in office 10,500 out of the 311,596 unemployed were assisted under the NEAT scheme. During any one time, only 5,188 people were being trained. Five thousand of those were professional or semi-professional people. Under Labor's NEAT scheme it gave to those professional or semi-professional people $96.80 a week. Only 186 unskilled people were being trained under the NEAT scheme. Only 1 86 people were receiving on-the-job training. This is an absolute disgrace. The NEAT scheme was abused badly by those who had the brains to abuse it and could afford to do so. 
It was abused to the extent that when we decided to alter the emphasis we cut quite severely the amount that was paid. 
-No. We gave $60-odd instead of $96. When we did that we changed the whole emphasis to what it should have been in the beginning, which is on-the-job training, not encouraging people to go to university to get higher degrees and to be paid $96.80 a week for doing so. We changed the whole emphasis so that the money was given to people who had been made redundant so that they could be retrained on the job, which was the original intention of the NEAT scheme. 
-The honourable senator should read in  Hansard  what the Labor Party Minister said when he first introduced the scheme. It was to retrain those who were put out of jobs so that they could go back into the work force; not to send them to university to become doctors, lawyers and so on. That was not its intention. The intention was to retrain them back into the work force, which is where the abuse occurred. 
I can assure the Senate that when we first changed the emphasis and reduced the amount that was paid the sorts of complaints I received were 'Labor promised me $96.80 a week, and I am committed. I am buying a car, I am buying a house. How can I possibly take a cut to $68?' Honourable senators opposite should not tell me that it was the intention of their Government that people should go to university to train as semiprofessional and professional people and be able to buy houses and cars with the taxpayers' money. That is not an exageration; that is exactly what happened. 
That is a rather sarcastic statement. I am quite sure that the taxpayers had no intention of having their money paid to people so that they could buy cars and nouses at the taxpayers' expense. However, we changed the whole emphasis, and over 85 per cent of people being trained under the NEAT scheme are doing on-the-job training. This is a change of emphasis away from the professional skills back to where it should have been in the beginningonthejob training. 
I have detailed how the Labor Government tried to cope with the unemployed. Let us consider how our Government has tried to cope with the unemployed. We have a NEAT scheme, and I have just explained the difference between the two NEAT schemes. We have also the Special Youth Employment Training Program; the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Fulltime Training; the Community Youth Support Scheme, a relocation scheme which assists people, particularly young people, to move from areas where there is no employment to an area where they are likely to find employment; a fares assistance scheme; a scheme of training for industry and commerce; an education program for unemployed youth and now an upgraded Commonwealth Employment Service. The schemes about which I have just spoken provide a spot for everyone if he or she chooses to have it. Anyone can enter any one of those schemes. Youths who have no skills or training can enter one or more of those schemes. There are any number of schemes for youth, the middle aged and the family man. Anyone can join one of the schemes so that at least he or she will be trained. The Government has made some effort to assist people not only with a NEAT scheme, which the Labor Party had and which was aimed directly at the professional and semi-professional - 
I have just given to  Senator Georges  figures which show that out of the training of one group at one time 5.000 people were being trained as professional and semi professional - 
-And 188 people were being trained by on-the-job training. 

 - Senator Georges knows as well as I do that the emphasis was completely wrong because it was aimed at wives of professional people who decided to get university training. They did not try to get training onthejob; they went to the universities and received their $96 so that they could buy another car and pay off a house. That was a disgrace,  Senator Georges  knows it was a disgrace and the Labor Party Minister said as much. I cannot understand why Opposition senators have not at least the grace to admit it. Let us look at what this Government has done about setting up programs and upgrading the Commonwealth Employment Service. Do not let anyone say that we do not care. We are the ones who have set up the schemes. 
I admit that unemployment has not gone down, but when a heavy cement truck is running downhill at 80 miles an hour one can hardly apply the brakes and expect it to stop within five yards. One applies the brakes and it stops slowly. That is what we have done with unemployment. Unemployment was running downhill and rose by 3.1 per cent in one year. We have applied the brakes and since we did so unemployment has risen by 0.2 per cent, 0.4 per cent and so on. We have applied the brakes and the rate is slowing. So for heaven's sake do not try to hang that one on us. 
-Yes, by all means,  Senator Georges.  Let us look at the CES offices, as they were. A tremendous amount of pressure was put upon them. As I visited CES offices in my State I found that they could not cope because their staff ceilings were fairly low. I take the blame for that because our Government brought down the ceilings. The offices found, because of the tremendous employment with which they had to cope, the new programs that the Government was instigating and the fact they were expected to make up statistics and do all the other things that were expected of them, that they were having their troubles. 
We set up the Norgard inquiry which said quite frankly that CES offices were overworked and could not cope with all the additional schemes, statistics and so on. Honourable senators will remember that at that time the Minister immediately raised the staff ceilings and increased the numbers remarkably. This made a tremendous difference. Since the Norgard report all CES offices have a new look. The whole emphasis now has been put on tidying up the administration because it had been the same old administration since 1946. As the Minister pointed out in his second reading speech, this upgrading will take several years. Apart from its main function, which is to help job seekers, he also spelt out the other functions fairly clearly. He said that it would also be the responsibility of the CES to promote and implement approved manpower programs and other measures designed to ensure a high level of employment in the community. This has never been spelt out previously. In the past the function of the CES was only to assist job seekers, but now the administration has been set out very clearly in the Bill. Special emphasis is also to be placed on those in the greatest need, which is again set out very clearly in the Bill. Special emphasis will be placed on those in need, such as Aboriginals, migrants, the handicapped and the young. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting of the Senate, I was referring to the additional functions that are set out in the Commonwealth Employment Service Bill. Whilst the Commonwealth Employment Service has been performing these functions, they have never been set out clearly as part of its services. The Minister stated that it would be the function of the CES office to register persons for unemployment benefit purposes, to publish labour market and employment service information and to collect statistics and other labour market information. The CES will undertake the training of its staff. Other functions are also listed. In the past, there has never been a head office of the Commonwealth Employment Service. Officers of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations have worked as employment and industrial relations officers. This Bill allows for the setting up of a national advisory committee on the CES which will be headed by a national director. He will be responsible for all the administration and will issue an annual report on 31 August which will be presented at Budget time. On that national advisory committee also will be two union representatives, two employer representatives and an officer from the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. 
I stress that the officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service are not in direct competition with private employment agencies. I am sure that all honourable senators have had representations made to them in this respect. The private employment agencies deal mainly with business people and companies looking for employees. 
-No, I do not believe that at all. I believe that these private agencies are approached by companies such as Myer Ltd and people generally who are seeking employees. They do not often find employment for people off the street. That is quite understandable because if these private agencies took people off the street, the people concerned would have to pay a fee to the agency concerned. Therefore, the tendency is for unemployed people to go to the CES offices, where they receive this service free. What I am saying is that companies approach the private employment agencies and ask them to seek the right sort of person for them. 
I just do not believe for one minute that the honourable senator is being serious if he considers that it smacks of the old school tie principle for an employer to approach a private employment agency seeking someone with certain qualifications. There is a difference between the CES offices and private employment agencies which I have outlined. People go to the CES agencies looking for a job, whereas companies approach the private employment agencies looking for employees. When an employer who is seeking employees approaches a CES office- certainly, quite a few employers go to the CES offices and ask for employees of their choice- he has to pay for the advertisement that a CES office makes on his behalf. Much of the lobbying taking place is possibly giving the wrong impression. The inference often drawn is that the taxpayer is paying for those advertisements. This is not quite right. 
The general principal of a government being in competition with private business is against my philosophy and against everything in which I believe. However, I do not believe that there is complete competition between the CES and private employment agencies. The two services deal with different areas. In addition, as a signatory to the relevant International Labor Organisation convention, Australia is committed ' to providing a national and comprehensive manpower service'. They are the words used by the Minister in his second reading speech. The Government stands by this commitment to provide a comprehensive national manpower service. It is committed to helping solve the unemployment problem. We need only look at the record to see that unemployment rose to tremendously high levels- it rose 3.2 per cent in one year aloneunder the Labor Government. The Labor Government did nothing for unemployed people, except set up the Regional Employment Development scheme, which it ultimately abolished as being useless. The Labor Government also set up the National Employment and Training scheme, which was directed primarily at the well educated people who could use and abuse the scheme. Whilst the majority- about 5,000 people- were being trained for professional and semi-professional jobs, only 188 people were being trained for other jobs. That is the record of the Australian Labor Party. 

 - Senator Georges has entered the Senate chamber to interject again. He comes in here muttering as he usually does. The record of the Liberal Party of Australia is one of setting up schemes to assist those people that the Labor Party made unemployed. Now, the Labor Party has moved an amendment to our Commonwealth Employment Services Bill which is quite incredible. The Opposition seeks to add the following words to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time: 
But the Senate is of the opinion that the Commonwealth Employment Service as envisaged under this legislation would be grossly inadequate as a vehicle for an effective manpower policy. 
If the Opposition is sincere in moving that amendment, why did it not do something about improving the CES offices? Why did it not do something about introducing legislation like this legislation? It was a Labor government which brought about an unemployment rate of 311,590-odd people. The position is absolutely incredible. In one year, the unemployment rate rose by 3.1 per cent. Yet now the Opposition is accusing the Government of not being interested in the problem. 
I congratulate  Senator Tate  on making his maiden speech in the Senate. It does him great credit. I am sure that he will be a worthy colleague of ours in Tasmania. It certainly sounds as though he will support the State in every way possible and that he will be a worthy colleague in the Senate. 
I support what  Senator Messner  said in his speech on the Budget. The Government has brought down a very responsible Budget. Try and all as it may, the Australian Labor Party cannot induce the people to go beyond a few demonstrations outside Parliament House. Those demonstrations were conducted by the members of some selfish groups in the community who cannot see past their own pockets and who have no thought for Australia's good. Since the presentation of the Budget, I have asked many people in the community what they thought of it. It has affected quite a number of people. I was talking to a cigarette manufacturer, who said: 'Well, it certainly does not help me. It will present me with some difficulties. But, my goodness, if you had not introduced such a Budget, then you really would have been squibbing the whole position'. The members of the Australian community knew what had to be done. They knew the country was heavily in debt and that the last of the big spenders,  Mr Whitlam,  had gone. They knew that we had to tighten our belts. Everyone knew that somehow or somewhere he or she would feel the pinch in the Budget. I believe that the Australian people have accepted this philosophically and told themselves that it had to be done. 
There is one area on which I would like to concentrate. It is a particular interest of mine. The Government has implemented one of the recommendations in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare which dealt with drug problems in Australia. I was delighted to see this recommendation covered in the Budget. The recommendation followed by the Government reads as follows: 
That Government imposts on all alcohol beverages be adjusted annually so that real prices of the beverages remain constant. 
The Government has increased the excise on beer as a result of this recommendation. 
-Of course. 
-The Government has increased the excise on beer and I believe that the prime reason for doing this was the recommendation of the Committee of which both  Senator Grimes  and I were members. The excise was increased by 3.5c a glass. 
-Senator Baume was  chairman  of that Committee. He had a part to play, and quite rightly so.  Senator Grimes  was also a member of the Committee. I believe that the Committee's recommendation has been responsible for this action. I do not deny for one minute that this excise will assist the Government's financial position. But, at the same time I believe that this was a responsible action because, whilst assisting with the nation's financial position, it carried out one of the recommendations which  Senator Grimes  asked for when the report was presented. The Government has also increased the excise on spirits by 10c a nip. I think that the Government took cognisance of the Committee's recommendations which pressed for the price of alcohol beverages to remain constant. Over the years more alcohol was being drunk at a lower cost to the community. In 1970-71, alcohol consumption represented 6.53 per cent of personal consumption expenditure. This class of expenditure covers a range of items such as food, drink and clothing. It then went down until the lowest level of alcohol consumption was 5.9 per cent in 1974-75. The percentage then increased to 6.4 per cent in 1 975-76 because of an obvious increase in excise. It then began to decline, until in 1976-77 it was 6.2 per cent, and in 1977-78 it was 6.14 percent. The Government has increased the excise on alcohol once again and this will continue in an effort to keep the cost of alcohol beverages constant. 
I am not, at any stage, saying that the increased excise is not going to be of financial benefit to the Government. It will be of financial benefit to the Government. But it is a responsible method because it will result hopefully, as we have recommended in our drug report, in containing the consumption of alcohol. The same thing can be seen in the area of cigarettes and tobacco. The excise has increased by 10 cents for a packet of 20 cigarettes. Again it will help with our finance. Hopefully it will reduce the consumption of cigarettes. It was also one of the recommendations that  Senator Grimes,  at that stage, was very happy to have included in our report even though he may be sarcastic about it now. I should like to refer to one of the recommendations contained in that report at page 7. We recommended that the excise policy be one of the tools used to reduce the consumption of tobacco. I admit that the Government is making money out of it, but it is still acting in a responsible fashion. 
There is one recommendation of personal interest to me that has not been taken note of, as yet. That recommendation is that all drug education programs be evaluated. I believe that this is of prime importance. Something has to be done about cigarettes; something has to be done about alcohol. They are both drugs of addiction. Very serious problems have arisen in our country because of their use. I should like to examine how disastrous the use of these drugs has been to our country. I should like to indicate a few of the dimensions of the disaster. Alcohol has been a major factor in causing the deaths of over 30,000 Australians in the last 10 years. Deaths from sclerosis of the liver have risen 75 per cent in that time. In the same period the per capita increase in consumption of beer has been 27 per cent, wine 122 per cent and spirits 50 per cent. Over a quarter of a million Australians can be classified as alcoholics. One in every five of our hospital beds is occupied by a person suffering from the adverse effects of alcohol. Alcoholism among the young is increasing dramatically. About 10 per cent of school children between the ages of 12 and 17 get very drunk at least once a month. Would we really tolerate these sorts of figures in any other disease in our country? We certainly would not. We would go screaming to the medical profession to find a cure if we were attributing those deaths to any other disease. 
Let us have a look at the results of tobacco use. The report states that cigarettes contribute each year to the death of approximately 8,000 Australians from either heart disease or lung cancer. By the age of 24, 49 per cent of males and 38 per cent of females smoke. Would we tolerate any other disease causing so many deaths? This is self-inflicted and for some reason or other we seem to tolerate a self-inflicted disease while we will not tolerate a disease that is not self-inflicted. The report says that some children begin to smoke at the age of five. It has been found that about one-third of adult regular smokers began smoking before they were nine. About 80 per cent of children who smoke regularly continue to do so when they grow up. The earlier in life a person starts to smoke regularly the greater is his risk of an early death. Why Australians tolerate this is quite beyond my imagination, but tolerate it we do. We find that governments, people and committees do not seem to know what to do about it. 
-We have raised the excise to try to stop it, but what happens,  Senator Georges?  We get  Senator Grimes  roaring his head off and saying: 'All you want is finance'. I know that finance is one aspect of the matter but I believe the tax has been imposed in a responsible way and in an area that the Government believes will help the health of the society. 
I believe that too. We find that the media does not seem to help. Some witnesses who appeared before the Committee, particularly police witnesses, said that if the media did not explain so clearly what happens to children when they sniff glue or use hallucinogenic mushrooms, perhaps these practices would not be so widespread. Every time such occurrences are described in detail in the media, a spate seems to follow. One of the other recommendations which  Senator Baume  has just reminded me about is that we suggested a lower alcoholic content in beer. A number of representations were made by the breweries in this regard. They decided that they could sell beer with a lower alcoholic content if the excise on such beer was lowered. The Government has not increased the excise on beer with a lower alcohol content. It is not popular at the moment because Australians feel they are not getting their money's worth if they do not get the higher alcohol content. But if they could buy it at a lower cost the breweries believe it would be saleable. So, what are we going to do about it? Governments have great consciences about this matter and they always have had. They say: 'All right we will spend more on education'. They think that education will solve the problem. They think that we should get the teachers in the schools to teach the children how bad the use of these drugs is. They think that television and the other media should cover the problems associated with the use of such drugs, in order to get the details and the knowledge across to the people. It is held that if we do that, the people will not consume these drugs. I am referring not only to alcohol and cigarettes but also to other drugs. The principle applies to any other moral issue. Governments and people involved in the social welfare field say that the only answer is education. 
Let us have a look at education. What is educational about science and why do we teach it? Why do we teach history? Basic education in the schools is aimed at making children interested, at getting them to experiment a little and to encourage them to read more. This is the basis of education. Why do we expect moral education to be different? Yet we do. Education in this field takes place but not evaluation of drug programs. We expect children to be knowledgeable about drugs and to be interested in drugs because we give them this education, but we do not expect them to experiment. But heavens, if we did that perhaps we would realise that our education system is not working. I should like to refer to a few of the reports that I have received from overseas because in Australia we have done very little evaluation of this education. We have spent a lot of money on drug education. New South Wales alone has allotted $800,000 for drug education alone during 1978-79. Not one penny of that money was for an evaluation of the drug program; it was all for drug education. 
That State thinks that education is the answer. We think education is the answer because everybody in Australia has said that education is the answer. People say: 'We will leave it to the teachers to teach it'. For heavens sake, before any more money is thrown down the drain, let us have a look to see what other countries which are doing a bit of evaluation work on this subject have to say. I quote what Richard Stuart of the University of Michigan claimed in the  Journal of Education Psychology.  He said that there has been a widespread increase in reliance upon drug education as a preventative measure. He went on to say that drug education may not impede the use of drugs and may actually exacerbate drug use. 
Let me have a go,  Senator. He  also said that in an effort to measure the effects of drug education upon the uses of drugs and attributed related uses as well as evaluating the effects of differing and structural patterns 935 seventh and ninth grade students in suburban junior high schools were randomly assigned to either experimental drug education or control groups. He pointed out that the results of that evaluation indicated that relative to control groups- that is, the groups without any drug education- those students who had drug education significantly increased their knowledge about drugs but also increased their use of alcohol, marihuana and LSD. He also said that education increased their desire to push drugs but that their worry about drugs decreased. That is just one evaluation. Another evaluation was made by  Mr Lane  in an article he wrote in the Journal of the National Foundation for Education Research.  Mr Lane  who is from Britain quotes a study in the United Kingdom carried out by the National Association of Youth Clubs which indicates that the information given in present drug education lessons incites many people who might otherwise not have done so to want to try drugs. These are the sorts of results that we are getting from overseas. 
Another study was carried out by  Dr Richard  de Lone who is Assistant Commissioner for Education and Training in New York city's Addiction Services Agency. He said: 
Why drug education may increase drug use (and recent studies have indicated this) is a . . . difficult question to answer. Perhaps instruction stimulates rebellion, or simply raises curiosity. Perhaps honestly factual presentations about illicit drugs . . . convince students that there is little to worry about . . . 
He expressed the view that they thought they could kick the habit. 

 Dr Guy Wrigley, the medical adviser to the Greater Council and Inner London Education Authority said: 
George Birdwood 's comment that 'only education enjoys the dubious privilege of having the power to make matters worse ' is not just a smart quip, but the plain truth. 
All I am saying is that there is so much proof from overseas that education in this area is just not working. The way we are approaching this problem is just not working. Yet we are spending hundreds and thousands of dollars in this area and still pushing the same old line that education is the be-all and end-all while overseas experiments prove that this approach is not working. 
The Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare received evidence in respect of an experiment carried out in Canberra schools.  Dr Irwin  said that the results of that experiment also proved exactly the same thing- that is, that drug education can be counter-productive. A moment ago I quoted a reference to  Dr George  Birdwood who is the Honorary  Chairman  of the London Region of the Association for the Prevention of Addiction. He asked: 
Can we be sure that our intervention will not do more harm that good? 
He goes on to say that he believes that it cannot. He points out that supposedly preventive education about sex in Britain and about alcoholism in Sweden seems to have done much to popularise these 'products' and has done little to counterbalance abuse. As I have said, governments have felt a guilty conscience about these matters and therefore they have been prepared to spend more money on them. A large amount of money was recently spent on an inquiry conducted by the Human Relations Commission. That Commission came out with exactly the same old solution, namely, that education will cure our social ills. The answer is that we must educate children in sexual responsibility and on human relation responsibility. 
Perhaps we can study what has happened in Sweden to gain a little advice because compulsory education on human relationships has been provided in that country for at least the last 10 years. Let us have a look at what this education has done for human relations. The divorce rate in that 10-year period went from 12.3 for every 10,000 people to 31.4 for every 10,000 people. The number of children born out of wedlock- no one suggests that this is good standard; surely two parents are better than one- expressed as a percentage of all live births rose in that period from 13.8 per cent to 32.4 per cent. This calculation, of course, does not include abortions. This has occurred in the period in which the study of human relationships has been taught in Sweden on a compulsory basis. There were similar rises in Australia in that same period. Our divorce rate has gone from 7.5 per cent in 10 years to 1 7.9 per cent. I might add that these figures relate to the period before the family law legislation came into operation. I do not think that it would be fair to make a comparison with figures collected after that date. The number of children born out of wedlock expressed in terms of live births increased from 6.97 per cent to 10.17 per cent. Again this figure does not take into account the number of abortions that we know are carried out in this country. The number of people who contracted venereal disease in this country increased by 4,844 in that period. These are the results education is producing in this country and overseas. 
The Government has just spent $1.4m on the Social Education Materials Projects, which is know as SEMP. But not one cent of that amount of $ 1.4m has been set aside for evaluation. When I was critical about this fact in my home State of Tasmania the State education department said: Well, we have had human relations for some time and we have done our evaluation on it in a report entitled "The Effects and Effectiveness of the Social Sciences, Personal Relationships Subunit in Trial Schools During 1973".' This was quoted to me as evaluation. I am talking about real evaluation. I am not talking about this sort of evaluation in which pupils were asked such questions as: 'Well, did you enjoy the course? Was it good? Did you think it was necessary?' The Curriculum Centre of the Education Department of Tasmania in its report on the effects and effectiveness of the social sciences stated: 
In 1973 a sub-unit of the Social Sciences program was introduced into a number of Grade 9 classes . . . 
The Centre concluded: 
This Personal Relationships sub-unit dealt with aspects of sex, drugs, the media and personal relationship generally. 
It further said that the results of the investigations were very favourable to the course. The pupils did increase their knowledge and understanding of the topics. The teachers approved of it and the children approved of it. They wanted the course. They thought that it had done them a lot of good. They felt freer to talk to people as a result of the course. This is hardly evaluation because nothing happened, nothing was sought and nothing came out of it to see whether they became more responsible children, whether they took more drugs. 
For the information of  Senator Georges,  evaluation is not whether the children thought the course was good. I bring to the attention of the Senate a survey that was done in America a short time ago by Joan McCord 
-Joan McCord is from the University of Drexell in the United States of America. It is a very interesting survey, and I am sure that  Senator Mulvihill  will be interested in it. It was a survey of 500 men 30 years after they had received five years treatment for being delinquents. They had received five years counselling and treatment for delinquency. This was followed up 30 years later. This is real evaluation. Joan McCord found that a control group of similar men who had not received counselling and treatment but who had committed the same type of delinquent acts had committed fewer major crimes than the group which had received the counselling. In the control group there had been fewer broken marriages. Men in the control group had more job stability and satisfaction, higher employment achievement and were less prone to nervous disorders and illnesses. They had died at an older age than those who had received the counselling. Altogether the survey was of the opinion that whilst it was not conclusive, there was certainly a great need for caution and that those who had received counselling over a period of five years could develop a dependence on their counsellor so that when counselling was finally withdrawn, they could be left floundering and unable to cope on their own, with the result that 30 years later they had unhappier and unhealthier lives than those who had not been interfered with in any way. I am not suggesting that we should interfere with drug education. I am merely saying that we should evaluate. 
My question, which relates to the lending arrangements for rural industries, is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Because of confusion expressed to me by the rural community, I ask the Minister: What are the differences between the lending facilities of the new Primary Bank of Australia and the rural loan facilities of the Commonwealth Development Bank? Are the interest rates the same in each case? Under what circumstances would a primary producer be advised to use one facility in preference to the other? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is the $98,000 which has been allocated to the family research project at the University of New South Wales for 1978-79 intended to have particular reference to the stated objectives of the International Year of the Child, that is, to raise the level of services to children? I further ask whether this research project, which was initiated in 1972 and has received a total allocation of $314,000 since then, has published the results of its research into the family. If not, will these results be published, and when? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer him to Pinkney's column in the  Australian  today headed: 'Schools hit by deluge of sex'. Can the Minister inform the Senate who is responsible for the Centre for Equal Opportunity referred to in the report? Is the Centre supported financially by the Commonwealth Government? Is there any truth in Pinkney's allegation that the Centre has produced material promoting lust and leftist vices? 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

-This first reading debate on the Pig Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill gives me the opportunity of bringing up a matter that is of concern to me. It relates to Commonwealth grants to specific organisations within the States and the amount of Commonwealth responsibility for the proper administration of these organisations. Under our federalism policy the general feeling of the Government is that the States should be responsible for the administration of the moneys that the Commonwealth gives in untied grants. Considerable untied grants are given to the States for community health programs. In the majority of cases they are on a dollar-for-dollar basis. A considerable amount of money is involved. The figure is $48. 3m for this financial year. The States set their priorities and the Commonwealth meets them on a dollar-for-dollar basis. This is fine. I believe that this is federalism at its best. However, if the Commonwealth states that it has a special commitment, I believe that that alters the whole case. 
Let us look at the community health program in general. The total outlay this financial year is $48. 3m which is broken up among the States in the following way: New South Wales gets nearly $ 19.5m; Victoria nearly $14m; South Australia just over $3m; Queensland $5m; Western Australia $4m; and Tasmania nearly $2m. The States divide this money and share it out as they think fit. The priorities of the States vary quite considerably. I will not go through the whole method of how they deal with community health programs. 
I would like to deal with the women 's centres in the various States. New South Wales is quite committed to women's centres. Out of the community health program, it funds five women's centres. On the other hand, Victoria is not committed to women's centres and in fact does not fund any. South Australia funds one; Queensland does not fund any; Western Australia funds one; and Tasmania does not fund any. This is federalism at its best. The money is supplied from taxation and the various States put their priorities where they think fit. If the people of New South Wales look at the Leichhardt and Liverpool women's centres, for instance, and decide that that is how they want their money spent that is fair enough. If they do not want their money spent on these types of organisations, they know what to do about it; they can vote the Government out at that next election. This way they have a proper say in the organisation of their State. 
However, when the Commonwealth has a special commitment, as it does have in the area of women's shelters, I believe that the whole aspect changes. That is the only area in community health where the Commonwealth Government does not make just a 50:50 commitment but makes a commitment to meet 75 per cent of the costs, as opposed to the States' commitment of 25 per cent of the costs. We find that this financial year the Commonwealth, in providing 75 per cent of the money that will go to these refuges or shelters, will make a total grant of nearly $2,800,000. New South Wales will receive approximately $945,000, Victoria $574,000, Queensland $408,000, South Australia $361,000, Western Australia $337,000 and Tasmania $158,750. So the Commonwealth Government feels quite a commitment. To underline the Commonwealth's commitment under which, as I said, it meets 75 per cent of the costs of such shelters as opposed to the States meeting 25 per cent, a short time ago Queensland did not fund its shelters. As a result, because of the Commonwealth's special commitment to these shelters, it decided to fund shelters in Queensland on a direct grant basis. I believe that this underlines completely the Commonwealth's commitment in this area. With this I agree fully. 
What I am concerned about is the fact that if something happens in one of those shelters- if there is misconduct of any description- even though the Commonwealth says 'we have a special commitment in this area and we are willing to make a special effort in this regard ', it says we leave the administration of and the investigations into these shelters to the States. As I said, the States have a commitment to meet only 25 per cent of the costs in this area. I do not believe that that is a very large involvement. I do not believe that all the States do in fact involve themselves very much in these shelters and refuges. 
As you may know,  Mr Deputy President,  at present investigations are being carried out into the shelter at Hobart. The Tasmanian Minister for Welfare is looking into allegations of improper conduct in the shelter. At first improper conduct was admitted by the staff. They said that improper conduct had occurred in the shelter and that the people responsible had been asked to leave. However, later it was reported that women from the shelter had said that the allegations were exaggerated, that there was no improper conduct and that in fact children in the shelter were not at risk. The staff admitted originally that improper conduct did take place at the shelter; now it is claimed that the situation has been exaggerated and that, after all, there was not very much substance in the allegation. To my mind that makes the shelter all the more suspect and makes my worry and concern far more - 
I do not think that the honourable senator ought to comment because I think he will find that the Minister - 
Maybe she was and maybe it was at a time when shelters were conducted in a totally different way. If the honourable senator is talking about the Launceston shelter, I could not agree with him more. It is run in a very responsible way and no such allegations have been made against it. But such allegations have been made against the Hobart shelter. Not only have such allegations been made against it, but the Minister for Welfare in Tasmania, who belongs to the honourable senator's Party, sees-- 
I am not blaming him at all. I am saying that he very properly is carrying out an investigation into this matter in a very proper way- perhaps a bit late, but nevertheless it is being carried out in a very proper way. So, if I were the honourable senator, I would be very careful about what I said in case when the investigations have been carried out he is left hanging out on a limb. The Depanment of Community Welfare in Hobart has stated that it has no regular supervisory responsibility for the shelter. If that is so, who is responsible for the shelter? The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  said: 
The State is responsible for general administration and oversight of the Women's Refuges. 
If the State is responsible but the Department of Community Welfare in that State states that it has no regular supervisory responsibility, I can see that things are being left pretty high and dry. Nobody seems to be responsible for the shelters. The allegations that have been made against the Hobart shelter I believe point out that, the way the shelter is at the moment, it is the worst possible atmosphere to which any woman who has recently been abused could go. If she has left her home under circumstances that forced her to go to a shelter, I believe that the atmosphere of that shelter at the moment would be the worst possible atmosphere for her and her children. 
I have asked the Minister- and I certainly will be seeing him later- to withhold the additional grant of $22,000 that has been promised to that shelter until the investigation has been carried out. What I am querying is the fact that the Federal Government is saying that it has no responsibility in this area. It admits that it has a special commitment to this area- it has made it an area of very special commitment- yet it states that it will leave such shelters to the States to administer. I believe that this is entirely wrong. I believe that this commitment should be treated in much the same manner as the commitment to homeless persons hostels. Those hostels have been looked after by the Commonwealth Government and I believe that the Commonwealth Government should look after the shelters in the same way if it has a special commitment. 
I believe that the Salvation Army, St Vincent de Paul and the people in these areas who have had so much experience in running shelters and in caring for all these disadvantaged people ought to be given funding in this area. Yet which House in Hobart, which is run by the Salvation Army, has had no funding. Elim House is a women's shelter operated in exactly the same way as is the Hobart women's shelter, but the latter has received all of the funding. To date, Elim House has had no Commonwealth assistance. It has gone about its work in a quiet fashion and, according to the people who operate it, if it were funded on the same lines as the Hobart women's shelter, it could expand and take in a number of women who are requiring this service. 
These people are experienced. The Salvation Army is respected by the whole community. How is it that it has not been approached? We seem to approach the wrong people in regard to expansion in this area. I believe that the Salvation Army ought to be asked if it will expand, if it will add to Elim House and take over the responsibility for these women, who so desperately need this service. 
I ask the Minister in charge of the House, the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  to approach the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and ask him whether the Government would fund the efforts of the Salvation Army in this regard; whether the Federal Government could take over some of the responsibility in an area to which it has said it is so financially and philosophically committed, an area to which I too am committed. If the Minister would do that I would be very grateful. I hope that the Minister for Health will be able to see his way clear to meet that request. 
I seek to leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I ask the Minister for Administrative Services why it is that government forms for claiming staff travel allowances contain no provision for the signatures of either the senator or the member verifying the claim, or of the staff member making the claim? 
-The purpose of this Bill is to extend the Homeless Persons Assistance Act for 12 months. As  Senator Grimes  has said, this Act was introduced in December 1974 by his party when it was in government as a result of a report by a working party on homeless men and women. One of the recommendations brought down by that working party was that the Homeless Persons Assistance Act be reviewed at the end of three years. So, this Act was extended from December 1 977 to December 1978. Since then, in June of this year, a report has been brought down entitled 'A Place of Dignity'.  Senator Grimes  has already commented on it. As a result of that report we desire to consult the States on the future of the Act. So, we are extending the Homeless Persons Assistance Act for a further 12 months. 
I congratulate the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on the evaluation carried out by her Department. 'A Place of Dignity' is quite an important document. I found it very interesting. As  Senator Grimes  has said, the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare, of which  Senator Baume  is  Chairman  and  Senator Grimes  and I are members, finds that very little evaluation goes on in any departments or voluntary organisations in this field. This is an important document from the Minister's Department. The survey was carried out among 35 welfare agencies. The aim of the document reads:   . . to evaluate the current state of services for homeless people and to determine as far as possible the effect of the Government's homeless persons program and, by collecting information from a sample of current users of the same agencies, to ascertain whether existing services were adequate and appropriate. Information would also be obtained from the organisations on their plans for the future and on possible improvements to the program, and from both organisations and homeless people on the adequacy of general community services available to homeless people. 
If we examine the report in a little more detail we find that some really effective evaluation has taken place. The comments made on the forms of service, for instance, cover quite a considerable area. The report reads: 
On the question of whether the program was giving the right amount of encouragement to the most appropriate forms of service, it was agreed that, generally speaking the money had been spent to the greatest advantage of homeless people . . . but also that there had been too much emphasis on physical facilities and too little on actual services ... too much emphasis on simply meeting survival needs and too little on the additional help that would enable people to better themselves. ... A higher proportion of the money should be spent on people who have not yet become chronically homeless . . . and on people willing to help themselves. 
The report goes on to say that in future no residential centres with as many as 100 beds should be set up. As a matter of fact, it goes a little further and says that it would be advantageous to have centres with fewer than 50 beds. The report goes on to point out that outside the main cities there are not many destitute people; that country areas have different priorities. One finds that the number of organisations that are eligible is very limited. They include voluntary organisations, in the main the charities, but the Act does allow for local government to be involved in this area of activity. Nevertheless, we find that only one local government, in Victoria, has actually taken up this benefit. It seems a pity that local governments do not involve themselves more in this area. The report adds that, as  Senator Grimes  noted earlier, most people believe that local governments have an important pan to play as suppliers of special services for homeless people. We know that traditionally, in our various areas, this has been so. It seems extraordinary that local governments have not availed themselves of the opportunities offered by the eligibility criteria. 
The problems encountered in the survey have been well set out. One of the problems in the evaluation of the program is that there is insufficient information to ascertain long term trends in the adequacy of facilities and services. People who have worked in the field for a long time appear generally to believe that there has been a steady but slow improvement. The report contained the following finding: 
All things considered, it seems reasonable to conclude that the program has not initiated, but significantly accelerated a process of development and improvement of services for homeless people. 
However, the report expresses disappointment that there has not been more innovation as a result of the operation of the Homeless Persons Act. I would like to congratulate the Minister upon bringing forward this document because I believe that it is very significant. 
The Federal Government has a special commitment to homeless persons, not only under this Act but also, as I mentioned last week, in respect of women's shelters. The Government has made a special commitment under the Homeless Persons Act and is funding 106 centres, with 3,410 beds. Last year 990,759 people were assisted. The capital expenditure of voluntary organisations, and of the one local government area involved, has been funded 100 per cent. Also, there has been 100 per cent funding of rental expenses and of the purchase and installation of equipment. Salaries of social workers have been subsidised to the extent of 50 per cent. Last year some 37 welfare officers were employed on this work. Voluntary organisations which provide both food and accommodation received 75c per person, and 25c per meal was paid in respect of non-residents. This underlines the commitment of the Federal Government to assist homeless people. 
The St Vincent de Paul organisation in Hobart has just been granted approximately $600,000. Recently I looked over its Bethlehem House there. Extensive extensions have been made and the money has done a tremendous amount of good. There has been capital expenditure upon furniture and equipment as well. The people involved were very proud of their centre and explained in great detail how they not only supported people in an emergency situation, when they first arrived, but, in the case of those who had an alcohol problem, gave counsel and assistance to enable them to re-enter the community. People were supported even though they might have outside accommodation, and were made to feel so much at home at St Vincent de Paul's Bethlehem House that they would often revisit the centre just to enjoy the company and the social atmosphere that was present and was so obviously of benefit to them there. 
I have referred to the problems of conducting the survey, but the system is working quite well. The summary of the report indicates that the program was thought to be an encouraging beginning and to have had already an appreciable effect on services, especially physical facilities. I think we will find that, for the three years prior to this report's being brought down, the Government has operated the program successfully. Obviously, some doubt has been expressed in the report but, all in all, the opinion seems to be that the program is doing a fair amount of good. The situation has reached the stage that I believe  Senator Grimes  was talking about. The Government has carried out the recommendations of the working committee. A review has been undertaken. We are now ready to have full consultation with the State governments on future arrangements. I believe that this is part of our federalism policy. It depends upon how the State and Federal governments get together on this and decide just how the Homeless Persons Act should operate henceforth. I would like to underline the fact that it was the previous Government's recommmendation that after three years of operation the program should be evaluated. That evaluation has now occurred and the next step in the program is ready to be taken. I support the Bill. 
-Can the Minister representing the Prime Minister say what is the cost of maternity leave to the Government for 
Commonwealth employees in all areas of Commonwealth employment? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Following publication of the family services report, has the Federal Government, as the largest single employer in the nation, been able to increase opportunity of employment by the use of flexible working hours to enable parents, particularly lone parents, to combine as a choice work and caring for their children? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry inform the chamber whether the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on its inquiry into the price of sugar will eventually be made public, if not before the Queensland and Federal governments have made their decision in this respect, at least following this decision? 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, concerns the carcass classification scheme for the beef industry. Can the Minister say what action the Tasmanian Government has taken to move towards a system of carcass classification in the abattoirs of that State? Is Tasmania just sitting back and allowing the mainland States to take all the initiatives in this field? 
Tonight we are debating the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare entitled Drug Problems in Australia- the intoxicated society?' I feel, as  Senator Grimes  expressed so well tonight, that we should perhaps look at how the community itself looks at the drug problem. People who work in the drug field, people who work in the health field and people who take a particular interest in the drug problem recognise that alcohol and tobacco are the No. 1 problem in Australia, but I believe that the community at large does not see it in that way. In fact, governments do not see it in that way. 
I would like to draw the attention of the Senate to a handbook prepared by the Division of Health Education of the Health Commission of New South Wales which was published in 1 973 and which is called 'The Use and Abuse of Drugs'. Although the material in it has not been updated it is still used to teach the young in schools not only in New South Wales but also in Tasmania. I have found that the Tasmanian Education Department uses this book as its own. In the chapter entitled 'Drugs and Their Origins and Uses' alcohol is referred to among the lesser types of drugs. The following statement is made in this chapter: 
Drugs range widely in their nature and just as widely in their application. Some people think only of narcotic drugs like opium when the word 'drug' is used, but this is a very narrow idea of what drugs really are. 
The handbook then goes on to list a whole lot of drugs, including antibiotics, anaesthetics, sedatives, hormones, insulin, thyroid extract, tranquillisers, pain relievers and so on. It goes on even to mention corn cures, preparations to prevent or treat sunburn, and medicated creams and lotions. Further down it refers to tea and coffee. It then refers, of course, to alcohol and tobacco. Alcohol and tobacco are included among all these other drugs. To do this booklet justice, after mentioning alcohol and tobacco it states: 
. these are the most widely used (though certainly not the least harmful) of all the drugs. 
That is all it says about alcohol and tobacco in this chapter. 
Mention is made in the chapter entitled Extent of drug use in Australia' of a survey carried out by  Mr Rankin  on the size and nature of the misuse of alcohol in Australia, but no mention is made of a survey on tobacco. Only figures are given, not the effect or anything else. We are only informed of the number of people who drink alcohol and the number of people who are alcoholics. We are not told how they became alcoholics. The booklet does not elaborate on that in any way. Figures are given in relation to tobacco later in the chapter. 
The most important chapter in the booklet is chapter 5, which is entitled 'Drugs liable to abuse and their effects'. This chapter sets out a list of the types of drugs liable to abuse. The types of drugs mentioned are analgesics, tranquillisers, depressants and sedatives, stimulants and anti-depressants, narcotics and hallucinogenic drugs. Analgesic drugs include aspirin and compound analgesics. The tranquillisers include the barbiturate type drugs. The depressants and sedatives refer to bromides and so on. Under the heading of 'Stimulants' mention is made of caffeine and cocaine. The list in respect of narcotics includes opium, morphine and cocaine. In the case of hallucinogenic drugs mention is made of cannabis. There is not one mention of tobacco or alcohol in this chapter about the drugs liable to abuse and their effects. It ends up talking about penalties. It refers only to penalties concerning narcotics and hard drugs. It does not mention the penalties for tobacco or alcohol. So far as we can see, the Health Commission of New South Wales, in its teachings, considers that the types of drugs most liable to be abused do not include alcohol and tobacco. This is an oversight which I believe needs rectifying. If we cannot talk our governments into realising that alcohol and tobacco are the number one drug problems in Australia then we have little hope of convincing society at large. 
I suppose that after sitting on the Committee and after spending so many hours working on this report, we tend to believe that we are getting across to the people the importance of these two drugs. But I just do not believe that this has been proved. I am sure that our findings are not getting across to the people.  Senator Grimes  spoke earlier of the social worker who pointed out that a family was delighted because the daughter was not now smoking cannabis but was on alcohol and getting drunk every weekend to a marked degree; at least she was not smoking cannabis. So I really wonder how far even our report will get in convincing the community that the number one evils are tobacco and alcohol. 
As  Senator Grimes  said, we have had a tremendous response from those in the field, both those in the medical profession and other people interested in the treatment of alcoholics or who work in associated areas. I would like to read what has been said by a couple of them. The  Medical Journal of Australia  wrote up the report very thoroughly. It carried a leading article on it. I would like to readjust a small piece of it which was quite a wrap-up for  Senator Baume.  Referring to the report, it said: 
It is notable because it is a careful and arresting document reviewing present data with a refreshing lack of prejudgment prejudice. That it should be produced by a parliamentary committee is particularly noteworthy and encouraging and it reflects much credit on the physician  chairman.  Most of the report deals with the major social drugs- alcohol, tobacco, analgesics and marihuana . . . 
So at least we are getting across somewhere that the major drugs causing social problems are the ones of which I have spoken. A Press release put out by  Dr George  Wilson, who is Vice  President  of the Foundation for Research and Treatment of Alcoholism and Drug Dependency of New South Wales, said that he considers that this is an excellent document that should be read by every responsible adult in Australia. He did not altogether agree with the majority report on cannabis, but he was delighted with the report generally. We have also received encouragement from as far afield as the United States of America from Robert DuPont. The Chief of the Division of Human Nutrition in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation was also very lavish in his praise. We also received a letter from  Dr Milner,  whom I am sure most honourable senators have heard about because this is his particular field. He commented: 
Basically the Report is enormously valuable especially with all its up-to-date statistics as well as fine recommendations and I am endeavouring to buy a large number which I know will receive much use by my senior professional workers. 
He did not agree with the majority report on marihuana either. He said: 
The Committee recommends decriminalisation of simple possession and self-administration of ordinary types of marihuana ... It appears to me that they have ignored the difficulties in properly defining cannabis and quantities that may be grown before the offence should be called a criminal one from their point of view. 
So whilst we have had a considerable amount of feedback from the people in the field about whom I have spoken, these people do not altogether agree with the majority report on cannabis, but all in all they treat the report very favourably as a whole. I turn to cannabis in particular, seeing that  Senator Grimes  spoke largely on this subject tonight. He said that there was little bitterness and enmity. I believe there is no bitterness and enmity. 
-Senator Mulvihill said that the other night. 
Actually it works in Tasmania too. That is virtually what the police there believe in. They do not believe in methadone treatment. We do not really need the cold turkey treatment for marihuana. As  Senator Grimes  so rightly said tonight, marihuana is not habituating. It is not a drug that would need the cold turkey treatment in any way at all. 
The Committee was completely unanimous in the majority of this report. I would like to underline this because I believe this is the beauty of the Senate standing committees. There were three members of the Australian Labor Party and three members of the Liberal and National Country Parties on this Committee. We were in complete agreement. It was a very good experience for me as a member of my first standing committee. I thoroughly enjoyed it. At the end, when we had compiled the report, the Committee was equally divided but not along party lines. On one side there were two Labor members and one Liberal, and on the other side there were two Liberal or Country Party members and one Labor member. I believe that this underlines the strength of the Senate standing committees. However it disappointed me very much when  Senator Grimes  and I went on television together that we were not allowed to talk about the majority of the report in relation to which we were in full agreement. The media was interested in discussing only the cannabis section, about which there was some controversy. As  Senator Grimes  said to me later, no doubt 
Tasmania would be agog to see both of us who had recently been fighting an election campaign agreeing wholeheartedly. I think that this should be seen more often throughout Austrlalia. 

-That surprised me even more. I think it must have been the first time since I came into this place that we have agreed on anything. 
It is quite an achievement, and I am not even sure on whose part. I would like to speak a little more on this cannabis problem. I agree that the community is very deeply divided about the pros and cons of cannabis. It is not as simple as  Senator Grimes  said tonight. He quoted  Senator Baume  as saying that when the report came out it was controversial: It would not be considered so controversial now. As a matter of fact, it would be considered more conservative than some of the reports coming from overseas. I do not believe that what  Senator Grimes  said is quite accurate. At the moment in Canada experiments are being conducted on rats. There was retardation and deformation evident in the offspring of the rats. 
We have not done a tremendous amount of research into cannabis. That research is yet to be done. We do know that more and more evidence is coming to light in respect of cannabis smoking and driving. As  Dr Milner  said, the full effect of drinking and driving had not really come to light until we were able to establish scientifically the amount of alcohol in the blood. Once we were able to do that, we were able to establish the problem of the drinking driver and how much damage he does on the road. We have not yet been able to establish the THC content in the blood in respect of marihuana smoking with the ease that we have been able to establish it in respect of alcohol. It is a very complicated business. It is more complicated by the fact that the body can store the THC for a tremendous length of time. We know that cannabis reduces driving skills up to 10 hours after it has been smoked. We have no accurate knowledge of the number of road crashes that can be attributed to cannabis. Again, we do not have the technology to enable us to find this out. 
Yes, I have a copy of the Boston report with me. We are able to ascertain the number of road crashes due to alcohol. We are not yet able to do that in respect of cannabis. However, the Boston University has done a survey and has come up with some results. It was stated that in a controlled group drivers who smoked cannabis were more represented in road crashes than the non-smoking drivers. These are the areas that we have to act on very carefully. I believe that if we were to decriminalise the smoking of cannabis in small amounts for private use, as the honourable senators who wrote the majority report wanted to do, we would run the risk of increasing its usage in the community. Not one person who appeared before the Committee, even among those people who believed that cannabis should be fully legalised, claimed that the decriminalisation of cannabis would reduce its intake. They all said that it would probably increase the use of cannabis, but perhaps this would be the case only for a short time. But they also said that it was not an habituating drug and that therefore it does not do much damage. 
I am fully aware of all the things that  Senator Grimes  said tonight. I agree with him entirely. I liken cannabis to alcohol, although in my opinion it has a different social value to alcohol. Would any honourable senator want to introduce the use of another drug that does as much damage as alcohol does in our community? Would any of us deliberately encourage the use of another drug that does as much damage as alcohol does in the community? We know the damage that alcohol does on the roads. We know also that the use of cannabis does damage - 
Vincents APC does not do damage on the roads. It certainly does damage to the body. I will come to deal with that point a little later if time permits. We know that cannabis affects driving skills. The THC content in the blood of road accident victims in America has been measured. Such accidents have been attributed to the smoking of cannabis. As an author of the minority report, I have two main arguments to put in respect of the majority report recommendations. The majority report suggests that we not only permit the use of small amounts of cannabis but also that we should allow the growing of the cannabis plant for personal use. 
Yes, and I believe that as a Committee we did not point this out particularly following the report being published because we were trying, as a Committee, to push the alcohol and tobacco problem as the main - 
I was referring to the recommendation for the decriminalising of the growing of marihuana for personal use. 
-Yes, literally. Such people could still be penalised but the offence would be decriminalised. In other words, we would not allow repeated offences to gather any weight. 
-That is right, but that is a criminal offence. I do not think that the Committee was suggesting for one moment that it would not be a criminal offence to grow cannabis in hothouses. However, I think that the honourable senator who made the majority report ignored the fact that a cannabis plant is not just a cannabis plant. There are many varieties of cannabis and many strengths of cannabis. It is not possible to say: 'OK, we will let people grow a cannabis plant, but they must only use the leaves. They must not use the rest of the plant'. Let us look at the position in respect of the cannabis plant. Marihuana, hashish, which is the resin, and hashish oil are derived from the plant. If honourable senators look at the strengths of the THC in these three products of the cannabis plant, they will see why in the minority report we objected so strongly to the growing of any of these products just for personal use. There is no way in which we can police the number of plants that are grown if we permit plants to be grown only for personal use. How many plants should we allow a person to grow for himself? It depends on the vigour of the plant. A person may grow three weedy little plants and say that that is enough for his use or he may grow three huge bushes and say that that is enough for himself and his mates. It will not be possible to police the number of plants that are grown for personal use. 
It is absolutely senseless. Let us look at the difference in the THC content in these products. I think that my comments might explain the position I am trying to outline. I would like to quote from a paper entitled  Forensic Chemistry in Australia  written by  Dr Dainis  on the occasion of the 46th Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science congress in January 1975. He says: 
The dried cannabis plant and specifically the flowering tops from that female plant may contain anything from 0 to 14 per cent THC. 
That is quite a variation of THC content in the one plant. I repeat that such plants contain 0 to 14 per cent THC content. He continues: 
Normally, most samples of good quality manicured cannabis contains 0.2 per cent to 1 per cent - 
That is the normal plant that is home grown-  while superior quality samples may reach 2 per cent. The form known as Buddha grass or Thai sticks- 
They come mainly from the United States of America. Honourable senators will remember that there was a big haul just last week in Sydney. The members of the Committee were going down to have a look at that haul but things happened and we did not actually get around to doing it. They are in this country. What does the majority report suggest that we should do in respect of this form of drug? Should they be allowed? Let me explain the THC content of this form of cannabis. They contain 4 per cent to 14 per cent THC. That is at least some four to 10 times more potent that the normal cannabis plant that people can grow in their back yards. 
-No, I do not grow them in my back yard. I have dealt with the varying THC content of the leaves of the cannabis plant- marihuana. Let us look at hashish and hashish oil. In hashish there can be 5 per cent to 15 per cent or 5 per cent to 25 per cent THC, depending on the variety. When we come to the oil, the samples in Australia at the moment contain from 5 per cent to 40 per cent, depending on how it is produced and whether the plants are thrashed or not. 
-That is not in the leaves, it is in the stem. Hashish and hashish oil is obtained from the stem of the plant and can have from 5 per cent to 40 per cent THC content. Some that have been found in the United States of America have had an even higher content. This underlines just how impractical the majority report was when it suggested that one could grow sufficient for one's own use in the backyard and it could be decriminalised. 
I am very happy to hear  Senator Cavanagh  say that because it is the first time I have won him over, I think. 
I do not think I ever had,  Senator Puplick.  I do not think I could ever hope to win  Senator Puplick  on this one. Those figures might make people understand that we cannot simply say that we will decriminalise a certain amount of cannabis. There is as much difference between the types of cannabis, the types of hashish and hashish oil, which all belong to the cannabis plant, as there is between beer and neat alcohol. I do not think anybody in this chamber would suggest that we should introduce to Australia another problem of the magnitude of alcohol. Perhaps I could get away from cannabis now and deal with analgesics, which I am sure will please  Senator Mulvihill.  Evidence was presented to the Committee that whenever compound analgesics are consumed for anything but the relief of minor pain in a temporary fashion - 
I think we will have to send  Senator Mulvihill  on a publicity campaign because what he has said is so right. 

 -And Senator Georges; do not leave him out. I have half of  Senator Grimes  and none of  Senator Tate  or  Senator Puplick.  Analgesics are doing a tremendous amount of damage, particularly to the women of Australia. Evidence was put to the Committee that during tea breaks at a factory the women would have a cup of tea and an APC of some description. The APC's would actually be handed around like a packet of cigarettes. We heard evidence that women were taking as many as 20 to 40 compound analgesics a day. It seems hard to imagine that people would have time to take twenty analgesics. 
I will come to that. 
-No, compound analgesics do not need a doctor's prescription. These are the ones that can be picked off the supermarket shelf- Bex and Vincent's. People can pick them off their supermarket shelves and take them as often as they wish. 
I am not referring to prescription drugs. The Committee did mention those but we have not dealt with them fully in this report. In spite of the publicity that accompanied the removal of phenacetin from the list of prescription drugs covered by pharmaceutical benefits, and the publicity given at the time to the dangers of compound analgesics, we found that there has still been the same amount of kidney failure and kidney disease in the last six years.  Senator Mulvihill  referred a few moments ago to the advertising of drugs, and the evidence the Committee heard on that brought to light some very interesting figures. We found that Queensland and New South Wales were the biggest offenders in relation to people taking drugs. In Queensland and New South Wales, where the advertising is far greater than elsewhere, even though they account for only 52 per cent of the population, 87.3 per cent of total sales of APC powders such as Vincent's and Bex are sold. 
Well, Tasmania was the second lowest, but Victoria beat us. Victoria was the lowest, which surprised me. A lot of evidence was presented to the Committee about the amount of advertising in those two States, and the figures available on the consumption of analgesics in those States underline the fact that the advertisements are really working, really getting across. Honourable senators will know the advertisement which says: 'Take a Bex and have a lie down.' The women are responding to that advertisement, which is a disaster. 
Yes, and the report of the Committee makes many recommendations that I will read to the Senate in a few minutes. Honourable senators might be interested to know that Australia has a very high rate of kidney disease, particularly that attributable to analgesics. In Australia, between 5 per cent and 1 5 per cent of all autopsies performed in public hospitals showed the presence of analgesic kidney disease. That is a tremendous figure, particularly when it is compared with the United States and the United Kingdom, where the figure is only 0.2 per cent. The Australian figure is really quite incredible. The Committee found that the amount of advertising in the United States and the United Kingdom was nowhere near the amount of advertising that went on in Australia, and we felt that this was really attributable to the advertising market here. I will outline to the Senate some of the things we found in relation to analgesics. We discovered that some people admitted to taking more than 50 compound analgesics each day and that most of the compound analgesics are habituating. Women take twice as many analgesics as men and women present with five times more kidney disease than men. Compound analgesics lead to kidney infections, cause 20 per cent of kidney failures, cause stomach haemorrhages, and altogether cause far more problems than single analgesics. A single analgesic contains only one analgesic compound but the compound analgesics contain at least two or three. The recommendations made in the report in relation to the analgesic problem are as follows: 
That all analgesics, whether sold with or without prescription, carry the following warning on the container 
The Committee was not terribly happy about this because we did not believe that the cigarette warning 'Smoking is a health hazard' had any effect at all. However, we thought that when people purchased analgesics at a chemist and saw the warning they might take more notice of it. We have recommended the following warning: 
This preparation is for the relief of minor and temporary ailments and should be used strictly as directed. Prolonged use without medical supervision could be harmful. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Following the outstanding success of the first television showing in New South Wales and Victoria of  The Job Show,  a Federal Government program to assist the unemployed, can the Minister say whether the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is considering introducing the program in other States? If so, when is this likely tobe? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of a report that Tasmanian pensioner health benefit claims will be processed in Melbourne after 1 November? Can the Minister say what would be the extra cost to the Government if the processing of these bulk billed claims were retained in Tasmania? Is it a matter of efficiency that has prompted the Government's decision? 
I present the following petition from 60 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the people of Australia having taken part in the government of Australia through universal suffrage in December 1 975 and again in December 1 977; and 
That on the basis of their expressed choice at the ballot box the people of Australia gave authority to the LiberalNational Country Party Coalition to form a federal government to bring into effect specific policies promulgated throughout the length and breadth of Australia by the said Coalition; and 
That, whereas by virtue of being elected through universal suffrage, the Government members now sitting in the House of Representatives were authorised to implement their state objectives by legislation and that such authority did not extend to acting otherwise or to enact legislation not previously submitted to the will of the people, namely:- 
Revoking the legislation for twice-yearly pension payments. 
Imposing a freeze on the free-of-means-test pension. 
Unemployed divided into those with dependents and those without. 
Imposing income tax on pensions under age pension age- invalid and repatriation service pensions; rehabilitation allowances and incentives; sheltered employment and allowances for tuberculosis suffers (civilian and service) and any other impositions. 
Your petitioners submit that all or any of the foregoing proposed legislation of the Lower House, if implemented, will greatly disadvantage many thousands of citizens as either against their expressed will or not submitted to universal vote as the democratic right of the Australian people. 
Therefore, your petitioners call on the Senate as the House of Review to take appropriate action to release these persons from burdens unfairly placed in order to finance a deficit not of their making. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 1 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, in Parliament Assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia, respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the Fraser Government was elected in December 1975 after promising that pensions would be adjusted instantly and automatically in relation to quarterly Consumer Price Index Figures; 
And whereas that Government subsequently announced that pension adjustments should properly be made half yearly each May and November; 
It is the current intention of the same Government to Legislate for pensions to be adjusted only once a year, and this constitutes a serious breach of generally accepted ethics, of Democratic Government, and also deprives many needy pensioners of increases that are essential to their Subsistence- 
The foregoing facts impel the under-signed petitioners to request the Australian Government to uphold the principle that trustworthiness of Governments should at all times be above question, and to appeal to the Parliament to prevent the imposition of further economic hardship upon Australian Pensioners, by rejecting any Bill which has for its aim the introduction of annual adjustments of pension rates. 
And your pensioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Acting Clerk-  Petitions have been lodged for presentation as follows: 
-I have no intention of lecturing  Senator Mulvihill  about industrial relations. Far be it from me to do that. However, let us look at what  Senator Mulvihill  was talking about. What is the purpose of annual leave? The unions have made it very clear- I could not be more in agreement with them- that annual leave is a right and a necessity for everyone in the work force. As a matter of fact this has been underlined with a 17 per cent loading on holiday pay. It is considered a right and a necessity each year that people take their annual leave. This underlines part of the Government's Bill. If this right to annual leave that the unions, and everyone else I presume, consider and believe is a necessity is waived and people are persuaded by their employers not to take it for the benefit of the employer, the health of the employees will suffer. Persons could be employed for the whole 52 weeks of the year. They will be persuaded to go without this recuperative period, which I believe is very important for their health, by the employers virtually holding a carrot under their noses and saying: 'If you accumulate your leave, you will not have to pay so much tax'. I believe that is a bad principle to adopt. I do not believe that it will do their health any good if they go without leave for five or six years. Some people have approached honourable senators on this side of the chamber and said that they have not taken annual leave for a certain period of time and that, because of this proposal, they will be down the drain by so many dollars. 
I have just tried to explain to  Senator Mulvihill  why I believe that everybody is not only entitled to annual leave but also should take it. 
-Everybody should be allowed to take their annual leave. In point of fact if they care to take it, they are entitled to take it and can take it.  Senator Primmer  knows that as well as I do. The employers should not be able to hold a carrot under the noses of the employees by saying: 'Do not take your annual leave and you will have to pay tax on only 5 per cent of what you receive'. I believe that practice is entirely wrong. I do not believe that it should assist the employer or the employee when it is done on a voluntary basis. The average taxpayer should not have to bear the burden. This Government has set about overcoming a tremendous number of the tax avoidance schemes that have been operating in this country. 

 Senator McLaren has been talking about family trusts. Because he does that so often, I would like to ask him what his Party did in the three years it was in government to rule out family trusts. If he thinks they are so unjust- he espouses that view vehemently so frequently in this chamber- why did not the Government of which he was a supporter rule out family trusts? It is an interesting question. The Labor Party put up many Bills in this chamber that were not passed. Why did he not have a go at the family trusts? He knows that they are very legitimate forms of trusts. That is the reason why he did not do that. He should ask his leaders why they did not do that in those three years. He should ask that question. Why did not the Labor Government rule out Curran schemes? Why did it not do all the things that this Government has been doing? It had plenty of time. We have taken action in the two years we have been in office. Why did not the Opposition do this in the three years during which it was in office?  Mr Chairman,  I rose only to point out that the purpose of annual leave is backed by the union movement and that people do not just have a right to take their annual leave but in fact should take it. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware of allegations in the Hobart  Mercury  of 16 and 17 October of reported large scale closures of beds in recognised public hospitals in Hobart? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the precise position in relation to recognised hospital beds in Hobart? 

 - Senator Grimes this evening, in debating the Social Services Amendment Bill, was very interested in attacking the Government but he was not very interested in the accuracy of his statements. He made several allegations which I would like to correct now. I will commence by dealing with what he had to say about tertiary allowances. He berated the Government for what might have been- about the fact that the Government, in the Budget, decided to tax some income earned by children by reducing the family allowance paid to the parents. It was called the newspaper boy tax by the Opposition. However, this did not happen.  Senator Grimes  seemed to take great delight in saying what might have been the case. 
It did not happen because the back bench members of Parliament made representation to the members of Cabinet. I believe that they made their point and that the Cabinet took note of the back bench. As a result, the Government introduced what the backbench had suggested. What might have been the case did not happen. However,  Senator Grimes  went on to say that the family allowance had been abolished for those parents whose children were getting a Tertiary Education Assistance scheme allowance. I am referring to the tertiary allowance paid for a dependent student. It was not until I reminded  Senator Grimes  that the TEAS allowance for those dependent students in fact had been increased that he said: 'Oh, yes it has been increased some $3 a week'. I think he said $3.50', but I am not sure. He said that it had been increased by $3-something. He claimed that this, according to me, would make up for the non-payment of the family allowance. In fact,  Senator Grimes  is entirely wrong. The TEAS allowance has been increased by $5.25 a week, not $3-something as  Senator Grimes  said. As the shadow Minister for Social Security, perhaps he should be a little more accurate in his statements and sure of his facts when he is debating this Bill. 
The honourable senator also went on to say that the income test applied to pensioners over 70 years of age represented a broken promise on the part of our Government. I draw the attention of the Senate and those people listening to the debate to the fact, that  Senator Grimes  said he was one of the people particularly instrumental in having the abolition of the income test for people over 70 years in his Party's platform. If we look at the promise made in 1972 by  Mr Whitlam,  we find that he said the means test for people over 70 years would be abolished in three years. During the three years that the Labor Government was in power it certainly did not abolish the means test. However,  Senator Grimes  assures us that he was instrumental in having that struck from his Party's platform. 

 Senator Grimes also said that in 1975 he assured everyone the indexation of pensions would not last. He now claims that he was quite correct because this Government will have only annual increases in pensions. He is claiming that the indexation of pension rates has been lost. This is not true. We have annual indexation of pensions. Nobody is suggesting that he or she likes this legislation. This Government does not like this legislation, nor does the Opposition. We do not like this legislation any more than members of the Opposition like it. But the point is that this Government, being a responsible Government, has made this Budget a fair and just one. I will explain a little more clearly than  Senator Grimes  did why we consider that this Budget is just and fair. We are being told that we broke the promise made in respect of half-yearly adjustments to pensions.  Mr Whitlam  promised in 1 972 that the pension rates would be lifted to an amount equal to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. In fact, this did not occur. 
-Senator Wriedt says that they were. But I have figures here which I would like to have incorporated in  Hansard  and shortly I will ask permission to do that. The figures prove that pensions were not increased to this level and never have been. I am sure that members of the Opposition have been spreading the rumour that the pensions were increased to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. Pensioners who have telephoned me have claimed that members of the Australian Labor Party have told them that pensions reached 25 per cent of average weekly earnings and that they are no longer at this level. This has been one of the points on which we have been lobbied so much. 
I have discussed this matter with members of the pensioners union in Tasmania. I have tried to explain to them why the Government has taken this action. We have brought down the inflation rate to 7.8 per cent per annum. Inflation is now running at 7.8 per cent. The Government's estimate is that in 12 months' time the inflation rate will be about 5 per cent per annum. If inflation is running at that low level, there will not be the same need for the half-yearly indexation of pensions as there was under the Whitlam Government. Between March 1974 and March 1975, inflation was running at 1 7.6 per cent per annum. No matter what  Senator Grimes  says- he says that we have reduced inflation somewhat! A 1 7.6 per cent inflation rate is not somewhat- it is quite considerably- higher than the present 7.8 per cent inflation rate at the moment. 
I would like to explain in detail what inflation means to the pensioner. I have taken out some figures that put the position very  clearly.  The  cost  of an ordinary milk loaf of bread increased by 10c between 1974 and 1975. I repeat that the cost of a loaf of bread in one year went up 10c- a 32 per cent increase. Last financial year, 1977-78- the same period of time- the cost of a loaf of bread increased by 2c. That is what inflation is all about. I repeat that between June 1974 and June 1975, the cost of a loaf of bread increased by 10c or 32 per cent and between June 1977 and June 1978 it increased by 2c or 4 per cent! The price of butter increased 10c or 17 per cent in that June 1974 to June 1975 period. The price of butter increased by 1.8c or by 2 per cent in 1977-78. I ask honourable senators to compare those percentage increases- 17 per cent compared to 2 per cent. A quart of milk went up 10c or 34 per cent between June 1974 and June 1975. In our period in government- during 1977-78- it has increased by 4c. That represents only a 9 per cent increase in cost. Between June 1974 and June 1975, the price of tea increased by 46 per cent. The price of tea went up by 1 4c. The price of tea in 1977-78 increased by just under 6 per cent. That is what inflation is all about. I have taken just those basic items of bread, butter, tea and milk because they are commonly used by all of us and certainly by pensioners. 
In 1974-75 when the price of a loaf of bread increased by 10c, there were two increases in pensions. When the price increased by 2c a loaf in 1977-78, we also had two increases in the pension. In this financial year, 1978-79, if as the Government expects and as all actuaries expect, inflation drops to about 5 per cent, the cost of a loaf of bread will increase by only  2lAc  and we will have one increase in the pension rate. If the pensioners look at those figures they will see that, if during 1974-75 under the Labor Government the price of a loaf of bread went up by 5c for every increase in pension, when it is going up by only 2 Vic a loaf for every increase in pension they will be ever so much better off. That might make it a little easier for the pensioners to understand. 

 Senator Grimes has said that indexation is out and that we are having just yearly increases. We are not using pensions as a political football and are not having just yearly increases as the Labor Government did. When it increased the pension it used to say: 'We are good fellows; we are increasing the pension'. What the Government is saying is that there will be an automatic yearly increase in the pension to the full extent of the increase in the consumer price index. It will be not the partial increase that applies to wages, but full indexation. In the past we have had half-yearly pension increases and quarterly wage rises. As we know, the half-yearly pension increases were on the basis of the full increase in the consumer price index and the quarterly wage rises were on the basis of only partial indexation. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission decided that inflation had been reduced so much that there was no longer a necessity for quarterly wage rises. 
The Commission decided on half-yearly wage rises. Consequently, instead of a half-yearly pension increase and a quarterly wage adjustment, wages are now adjusted half-yearly and pensions yearly. Inflation has come down to that extent. 

 Senator Grimes spoke at length about the income test for 70-year-olds. He called it a broken promise and abused the Government. Then he said that he did not believe in it anyway and was instrumental in having it written out of his 
Party's platform. He also said that the Government was not interested in the needy; that it was interested only in those who had money. He cannot have it both ways. At the moment the Government adheres to its policy to do away with income tests altogether. In the meantime, it has had to go back on that particular promise, and I make no apology for it. It is a temporary measure and, I believe, a justified one. The Government has just so much money; so it has said to those over 70 years of age that we should give it to those most in need rather than to those who have income which puts them beyond the description 'needy'. We have said to those who are over 70 years of age that we should give it only to the needy. I sincerely trust and believe that at a later stage this Government will reintroduce the full flow-on for those over 70 years of age. 
It has been put abroad, and said quite frequently, that the pension has been abolished for those over 70 years of age. When I was speaking to pensioners the other day they were quite surprised to find that it had not been abolished, only frozen. This is terribly important. In view of the way in which the Opposition has been talking, I am not surprised that many pensioners over 70 years of age who are above that income test feel that they are going to lose their pension altogether on 1 November. That is not so. Pensions for them have been frozen, not abolished. The blind pension has not been interfered with in any way. 
-Perhaps I could speak a little about the figure of 25 per cent. It is something that the Labor Party has been putting abroad quite dishonestly. In October 1972 the combined married rate of pension was $34.50 and represented 34.3 per cent of average weekly earnings. In October 1973, a year later and when the Labor Party was in power, it had risen to $40.50 and to 35.1 per cent of average weekly earnings. In August 1974, nearly a year later, it had risen to $51.50 and to 36.7 per cent of average weekly earnings. Honourable senators should note that these figures are not quite yearly; sometimes there was a lapse of only 10 months. In November 1 975 it had risen to $64.50 and to 38.6 per cent of average weekly earnings Honourable senators should not forget that I am talking about the combined married rate. In November 1976, when we were in power, it increased to $72.50 and to 38.7 per cent of average weekly earnings. By November 1977 it had risen to $82.20 and to 40.2 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
If I now stick to the single rate of pension for the purpose of this exercise it might make my argument a little clearer when talking about the 25 per cent of average weekly earnings the Labor Party claims it achieved. The alternate months when there were increases- in March 1973 the average single rate of pension was $21.50 and represented 21.4 per cent of average weekly earnings. In April 1974 it was $26 and represented 20.4 per cent of average weekly earnings. In June 1975 it was $36 and represented 23.3 per cent of average weekly earnings. In May 1976, when we were in office, it rose to $41.25 and was 23.1 per cent of average weekly earnings. It should be noted that at no stage have we reached 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. In May 1977 the single rate increased to $47.10 and to 23.8 per cent of average weekly earnings. In May 1978 it rose to $51.45 and to 23.9 per cent of average weekly earnings. That figure of 23.9 per cent was the highest percentage of average weekly earnings since before 1972. At no stage did the Labor Government achieve a single rate of pension of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, as it has claimed so loudly and for so long. It upsets me that the Labor Party is so inaccurate on this issue. 
It has said that this Government is not caring for the needy. I would like to underline just a few of the things that this Government has done during the time it has been in power. In 1976 the handicapped children's allowance was increased from $10 to $15. The Government has extended the eligibility for the handicapped children's allowance to include lesser handicapped children, substantially handicapped children, where the family income is low. It was done not for the wealthy but for cases where the family income is low. Eligibility for the handicapped children's allowance has been extended to cover 16-year- olds to 25-year-olds who are not in receipt of an invalid pension. A benefit is paid to organisations providing residential accommodation for handicapped children. This benefit was increased from $3.50 to $5 a day. The family allowance was introduced and this, despite what the Opposition could possibly say, was the biggest boon to the very low income families that it was possible for any government to introduce. I think that even the Opposition would not deny that. 
-Senator Grimes said Yes we would', so perhaps we should discuss that a little more. The rebates were taken away from the father when the family allowance was introduced, but previously the low income father with a large number of children was never able to claim all the rebates. He just did not earn enough to claim all the rebates to which he would have been entitled had he been on a higher income. Because of that this Government introduced the family allowance and the full amount that he would have been able to claim had he been on a higher income was given to his wife. The family allowance was not of any greater assistance than the previous arrangements to higher income families. As a matter of fact, we received complaints from people on higher incomes claiming that they lost out. But the family allowance certainly assisted people on lower incomes. I am surprised that  Senator Grimes  is not truthful enough to admit that. Also, lone fathers were assisted tremendously by this Government. For the first time they were placed on the same basis as supporting mothers for all their benefit entitlements. We also introduced the family support services program, which was announced earlier this year. This is aimed particularly at assisting families in need. 
Perhaps the most important measure that we have introduced is the indexation of taxes because that has assisted everyone in the community. Let us not forget that in 1975 the present Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden,  said that it was not possible to index taxes. The indexation of taxes has been very confusing for the average person and very confusing for the average pensioner. I believe that I can explain the indexation of taxation to their satisfaction. Let us understand quite clearly that since the introduction of the indexation of taxes the Government has returned $3,000m to the taxpayer. If we had done nothing about taxes and had kept them on the same line, as the Australian Labor Party did when it was in government, the taxpayers would be $3,000m worse off than they are now. That is an incredibly large amount of money- $3 billion. 
Just what does the indexation of taxes mean to the average person? Let us look at the amount of money that people are allowed as annual income before they are required to pay any tax at all. That level of income is called the 'tax threshold'- the amount of money that people can earn in a year before they are liable to pay tax. In 1975-76, before the introduction of tax indexation, that amount was $2,518. That amount has gone up since the introduction of tax indexation. In 1977-78, the financial year just passed, that figure had gone up to $3,750. This financial year, 1978-79, it will go up to $3,893. 
That is tax indexation, where the original amount of annual income that people can earn before being liable to pay tax goes up each year with inflation. That makes governments honest. We have not done what the Labor Party did and just taken more tax from people as their wages rose through inflation. Tax indexation keeps governments honest. As people's wages rise through inflation the tax threshold rises too. The dependent spouse rebate rises, the sole parent rebate rises, the invalid relative rebate rises and so does the dependent parent or dependent parentinlaw rebate rise. 
Perhaps the situation with the dependent spouse rebate will illustrate the point even better to those women who stay at home. In 1975-76, as a dependent spouse, they were entitled to a rebate of only $400 on their husband's income. With tax indexation that amount has gone up automatically without the Government making a song and dance about it and without it being pointed out to them every year. I believe that in this we have been wrong because people do not realise that these rebates are going up. But the dependent spouse rebate has gone up from $400 in 1975-76 to $555 last financial year, 1977-78. This financial year it will go up to $597. In 1975-76 the sole parent rebate was only $200. With tax indexation it went up last financial year to $388 and this financial year it will go up to $4 1 7. The invalid relative rebate was only $200 in 1975-76. Last financial year it went up to $25 1 and this financial year it will go up to $270. The dependent parent or parent-in-law rebate has been increased likewise. It has gone up from $400 in 1975-76 to $501 in 1977-78 and this financial year it will go up to $539. 
These are the increases that point out to people what tax indexation is all about. The dependent spouse rebate has gone up by nearly 50 per cent since tax indexation was introduced. The sole parent rebate has gone up by over 100 per cent in that time. Yet the Opposition claims that we are not interested in any way about people in need. I believe that this is a claim that the Opposition has been trying to spread because it is very difficult for any government to get across to the people in detail a lot of its legislation. The Opposition has been having a heyday. It has been telling these untruths and getting across to the people a claim which is quite inaccurate. 
The legislation to introduce the new  Vi  per cent tax surcharge on income was a piece of legislation about which the Government was not happy. But it had to bring in that measure. We have only so much money. If we want to spend money in the most responsible fashion possible on behalf of people most in need we have to raise the revenue to do so. We have a very large welfare bill. We have a very large deficit. Therefore, we had to increase income tax rates by 1 per cent. If we look at that increase I might be able to point out that again people in need were the people who were assisted. Let us consider the situation with the ordinary man in the street with a dependent spouse, the ordinary Medibank levy payer who did not want to insure privately for health benefits or who was not financial enough to insure privately. If he is on an income of $150 a week, even with the 1% per cent income tax surcharge, as he will no longer have to pay the Medibank levy, he will be $1.75 a week better off. If he earns $200 a week he will be $1.70 a week better off. If he is receiving average weekly earnings he also will be $1.70 a week better off. These figures are indisputable. If people are on high incomes they certainly will not be better off; they will be paying more. 
If we look at the situation with a taxpayer without a dependent spouse we find that those on a very low income of $ 100 a week will still be $1.80 a week better off. Let us consider the new private medical benefits arrangements that have been announced. I do not know the figures for States other than Tasmania, but in Tasmania the cost of coverage for 75 per cent of the doctors scheduled fee is $1.27 a week. So he is $1.80 better off with regard to taxation, and by the time he pays his health insurance of $1.27 he will still be considerably better off. But the man on the higher income will certainly not be better off. It is a fallacy to say that this Government is not interested in the needy. The Government has directed all its legislation towards those in greatest need. I would like  Senator Grimes  to make an apology and say that he was entirely wrong as regards the tertiary students allowance; that the increase is $5.25 and not $3.50 as he claimed. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, with a reminder that since 1974 a total of $95,000 has been allocated by the Federal Government to the Australian Council of Trade Unions for research into the needs of trade unionists and their families. Can the Minister say whether the results of this research have been published and whether in fact the research has provided the basis for any decision which may have been taken in regard to trade unionists and their families? 
-I fail to understand  Senator Grimes'  attitude on this. He clearly stated during the second reading debate that he was instrumental in having the means test included in this Party's platform. Now he is arguing that a means test should not be introduced and is saying that the Government is wrong in introducing this piece of legislation. It is quite beyond my comprehension where  Senator Grimes  actually stands on this issue. He cannot have it both ways. He says that in these economic times these people should not be asked to bear the burden of the provisions contained in this legislation. Yet he clearly stated yesterday in the debate on this Social Services Amendment Bill that, even in the best of times, he believed that a means test should be imposed on pensioners aged 70 years and over. That makes it very confusing, I am sure, for all Government honourable senators to understand what  Senator Grimes  means. 
-My question of the Minister for Social Security follows from a question I asked earlier about the family research project at the University of New South Wales. Is it intended that this project will continue indefinitely in order to provide the Government with a continuous data base for the formation of an adequate family welfare policy in Australia? 
-In the debate on the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978, the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 and the Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill 1978, which are before the Senate tonight, we have had a fine example ofthe socialist policies of the Australian Labor Party. We heard  Senator Grimes  say: When we get over crossing the doctors' palms with silver'- that is the fee for service- 'and introduce the health maintenance scheme we will be far better off'. Obviously he would like to get our country into the fine mess that the United Kingdom is in. Just recently an orthopaedic surgeon there called a meeting of all his patients on his waiting list. He filled a hall with 300 patients that he had on his waiting list. 
That is nationalised medicine and that is what  Senator Grimes  is advocating tonight. Of course, this is completely in line with the discussion paper put out by the Labor Party just recently about the taking overwhen it is in government, if it ever gets in government- of large businesses in Australia. Ever since the Labor Government interfered with the finely balanced health arrangements of this country both that Government and this Government have been grappling with health costs. The Medibank system that the Labor Government introduced was the cause of the greatly escalating costs in health care. 
Sentor Ryan- How can you justify that claim? 
-I present the following petition from 77 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully say that we are concerned about the discrimination which exists against the children of those parents who are in receipt of the Supporting Parents Benefit in comparison with children of Single Parents who receive the Widows Pension. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Parliament take' immediate steps to ensure that this year's budget allow for Lone Parents to be given the right to receive a pension with the same benefits as are given with the Widows Pension, and we also request that Parliament take immediate steps to instigate one ( 1 ) category of Lone Parent Pensions to eliminate the discrimination currently experienced. 
And you petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 62 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition ofthe undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to: 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I will give the honourable senator some figures to justify it. I am sure that if the people listening to this debate examine how health costs have risen they will understand what I am talking about. In 1960-61 the national health bill was $700m. By 1975-76 it had exceeded $5, 200m and it was expected to rise even more because the preliminary figure for 1976-77 was $6,254m. 
Let us have a look at what has caused these increases.  Senator Ryan  has said that is was doctors' incomes. Nearly 60 per cent of health costs are incurred in institutional care. It was pointed out in the discussion paper on paying for health care that was put out in February this year by Doctor Sax that the main increase in institutional care was the increase in nurses ' salaries- a catch up in wages for women with which I entirely agree. Let us face the facts. The increase in costs has been through the institutional care of patients; the prime increase has not been through doctors' wages. Let us see what the people of Australia want by way of health care. Technology has increased tremendously. If we want the very best care with the highest technology available easily accessible we have to pay for it. If we want the very best of everything- if health is most important to us- we have to be prepared to pay for it. We have to be prepared for our taxes to rise considerably to cope with all the technology that is available for every single service we want. 
Let me instance what can happen. It can be justifiably said that every woman who is having a baby should have an ultra-sound scan. The equipment is known as a real time scanner. The service is not always necessary. The majority of women have perfectly normal births and the scans are not a necessary part of treatment in a normal pregnancy. If these scans are given to every woman in Australia who is having a baby costs will increase considerably. The scanners would be in every obstetrician's surgery. Doctors, admittedly, would be able to make a great deal more money. If the community desired such a service for normal pregnancies, the doctors could justify it by saying that they just might pick up something which is abnormal. After all, the scanners can establish more accurately the date of the expected birth of the baby and whether the growth of the baby is normal and is going according to schedule. It could also establish the placement of the placenta. These scans are necessary if something is going wrong or if the doctor suspects that something is going wrong. In a normal pregnancy there is no need for this particular service. It could be argued that one scan in many thousands could pick up something that the doctor had not suspected. Is this the sort of service that the Australian community wants? Is this the sort of service that the Australian community is prepared to pay for? If this is what the community wants, we have to ignore the escalating costs and be prepared to pay for the services by taxes. 
We might of course be quite content with reasonably good health care.  Senator Grimes  said tonight that no matter what the Labor Party or this Government introduced the health of the community has not been altered. If we are prepared to accept that, that the health of our community is pretty good, we may opt for reasonable health costs. We may decide on that. After all, services in the past couple of years per head of population have gone up. We might say 'Okay, these have gone up unreasonably and should be limited'. Let us have a look at the rise in the service per head of population. In 1967-68 the Australian average for medical services per head of population was 4.2- the average person went to the doctor 4.2 times in a year. In 1 975 the figure rose to 4.7. It is estimated that for 1976 the figure will be 5.6. People are going to the doctors more. They say: 'I am paying for it. I am insured. I am paying my taxes. I may as well get full advantage of what is available'. 
People are going to the doctors for all sorts of minor ailments. I know that when my children- I am sure this applies to the majority of honourable senators who have children- contracted measles the doctor was not contacted as it was known that measles was a relatively minor complaint, a children's complaint, that could be coped with quite well at home. Complications could arise. However, the parents would decide whether the child needed medical attention. Now the doctor appears to be called in at the first sign of measles. Honourable senators might say that this is quite a legitimate service, but it is costing the community. If the community wants that sort of service it must be prepared to pay for it by way of taxes. That is just a minor example of what health care costs are all about. 
I now turn to costs per hospital bed. This might explain to  Senator Ryan  where the increases are really coming from. The cost per hospital bed in Western Australia in 1972-73 was $43.43. When the Labor Party was in government in 1973-74 the cost rose to $54.53. The next year it went up to $75.2 1. The following year is rose to $94.08. In the three years that the Labor Government was in power the cost more than doubled. It is complete ignorance on Sentor Ryan 's part to say that doctors' fees alone have made health costs rise. She has not gone into the figures in any depth at all. It is just a philosophy she wants to put across. It is quite unfair and quite irresponsible for her to continue along that line. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and relates to the recommendations of the Sax Committee on Nurse Education and Training that selected colleges of advanced education should be required to undertake the future education of nurses. Will the Minister ensure that if that recommendation is implemented Tasmania will be used as a centre for nurse education, in line with the recommendation in the Callaghan report, which advises thai Tasmania should be used as a centre for all limited specialised education? I point to the Maritime College as an example of the working of that recommendation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Firstly, does the Federal Government allocate funds to the Ananda Marga School in Hobart? Secondly, does the Government allocate funds to any Ananda Marga school in the Commonwealth? 
I bring up the report of Estimates Committee C on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1 978-79, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I present the following petition from 57 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully say that we are concerned about the discrimination which exists against the children of those parents who are in receipt of the Supporting Parents Benefit in comparison with children of Single Parents who receive the Widows Pension. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Parliament take immediate steps to ensure that this year's budget allow for Lone Parents to be given the right to receive a pension with the same benefits as are given with the Widows Pension, and we also request that Parliament take immediate steps to instigate one ( 1 ) category of Lone Parent Pensions to eliminate the discrimination currently experienced. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-by leave-I table additional information received by Estimates Committee C and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. What is the role of the social welfare policy secretariat in the Department of Social Security? What is the role of the social welfare research centre of the University of New South Wales? Is there any area where the duplication of the various roles would occur? 
Because  Senator Ryan  has assured us that her aim is not to set up private abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory, I accept that assurance. However, her aim is to set up a publicly run abortion clinic in the grounds of a hospital in the ACT. This year is the International Year of the Child. To celebrate that event  Senator Ryan  and those honourable senators who would support her motion suggest that this Government should be the first government in Australia to set up a public abortion clinic in the grounds of a hospital to be run by the taxpayers' money to destroy the lives of children. Is that the message that the Senate wants to give to other nations of the world as Australia's answer to the International Year of the Child?  Senator Ryan, Senator Evans  and  Senator Hamer  have all said that this is not a debate on abortion. This Government has the responsibility of setting up any health regulations in the Australian Capital Territory. It is a debate on abortion. I do not blame them one bit for trying to steer away from the debate on abortion. If I were trying to argue their philosophy I would be doing likewise because the last time abortion was debated in this place it was trounced. The vote was 98 to 23. 
I am sorry, I meant in this Parliament. The vote was 98 to 23 and it was thrown out resoundingly.  Senator Ryan  said that we should obey the elected representatives of the Australian Capital Territory and their recommendations. The abortion issue was never an issue at the election in 1974. It was never conceived at that time that the people of the ACT would be electing people who would have a decision to make on whether abortion clinics or any other health measure would be implemented. If we look at the number of people who were elected at that time- 18 members were elected to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly- we find that nearly one-third of them have since retired or died. That is a quite considerable number. So only two-thirds of the original elected Assembly have made that decision. The rest- nearly one-third or five members of the Assembly- have not been elected but have been appointed to their positions. 
It was not a unanimous decision. Let us look at what the recommendations are putting forward.  Senator Hamer  said that this would not alter the law on abortion in the Australian Capital Territory. It does not alter the law but it certainly would alter the practice of how abortion is carried out in the ACT. At the moment under the hospital organisation there are checks and balances and a responsible decision is taken after at least two doctors have consulted. The matter is then put to a terminating committee to see whether the abortion is not just being sought for frivolous reasons, because of convenience, as is the case in many States. If the recommendations are allowed, the public abortion clinic that would be set up would have the decision of only one doctor. There would be no consultation; no two doctors would consult. It would be abortion on demand as it is at the Preterm clinic and the Bertram Wainer clinic. We know this only too well. They are abortion on demand clinics. The laws in those States stipulate that it should be only when the mental or physical health of the mother is in jeopardy that an abortion should be carried out. Who will be able to say that the diagnosis of the doctor claiming that it is to the benefit of the mental health of the mother that the abortion take place is not justifiable? I think we have to look at several things because it is a debate on abortion. 
The United Nations Declaration on the Rights of the Child applies not only to the born but also to the unborn child. It says that a child by reason of its physical and mental immaturity needs special safeguards and care, including appropriate legal protection both before as well as after binh. Surely those people who believe in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights would not be pulled away from the Declaration of the Rights of the Child. 
I am sorry, but I did not hear what  Senator Georges  said. 
If  Senator Georges  says that is a red herring - 
I did not hear what the honourable senator said. However  Senator Baume  told me that you said it was a red herring. I should never take any notice of my Whip. What was your question,  Senator Georges? 
Well,  Senator Georges,  when does life begin? Every womens libber in the world has a different decision as to when life begins. They argue that a woman has the right to do what she wants with her own body. They all come up with some magical solution. I believe that life begins once conception has taken place. Life certainly begins once the baby has started to develop. We know that this is right. We have been told by the Royal Commission on Human Relationships that this is its decision. We have been told by every responsible body that abortion is the taking of a human life. Nobody in his right mind would deny that. A baby must be alive to grow; it must be alive to move. I do not believe that anyone would doubt that an unborn baby is a life. 
We have been told not to get emotional about this subject. We have been told just to deal with the facts- after all it is a foetus and every woman should have the right to say whether she will continue with a pregnancy. I believe that every woman has every right in the world to say whether she will become pregnant. Some people argue that every woman has the right to say whether her baby can be destroyed just because it is not born. However, if she made this decision immediately after the baby was born and the baby was destroyed she would be charged with murder. I would like to know at what magical point these people believe that life begins. I do not think that  Senator Georges  will find any agreement on an answer to his question. There would be very few people who could come up with an answer. 

 Senator Evans talked about an opinion poll that was conducted in the Australian Capital Territory. I think we all realise that the questions asked in the opinion poll were worded very badly. To do  Senator Evans  some justice, he did say: 'Well, you know, the poll was a bit dicey'. A bit dicey! The opinion poll did not mention the fact that as the situation stands at the moment about 150 abortions are being carried out in hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory. It did not mention that already very responsible facilities were available in the Australian Capital Territory for abortions to be carried out. 
I would like to make it perfectly clear where I stand. I do not believe in no abortion whatsoever. I believe there are very definite occasions when abortion can be justified. I state this belief very clearly. I have absolutely no agreement with those who say that abortion should not take place in any circumstances. But let us face the facts. If we set up a clinic in the Australian Capital Territory of the type that has been suggested today we will be condoning the principle of abortion on demand. 

 - Senator Baume said: Yes, that is right'.  Senator Baume  will oppose what I have said when he speaks in this debate. But he agrees with me on this point. If we vote today to set up public abortion clinics in the grounds of Australian Capital Territory hospitals we will be voting for abortion on demand. 

 - Senator Baume says: Legal abortion'. Can anyone tell me of one instance in the last year when an abortionist has been taken to trial in New South Wales, Victoria or South Australia? How many abortions are being done in Australia today? Are they all legal abortions? 

 - Senator Ryan very clearly said yes. Do people say that abortions performed by Bertram Wainer or the Preterm clinics are not abortion on demand? Of course they are abortions on demand. They have bragged that every woman who goes into Preterm can have an abortion if she wants it. It is on demand, the same as it would be in the Australian Capital Territory if the Senate votes for this motion.  Senator Baume  agrees with me on this point although he adds that it is a legal abortion. There is no such thing as an illegal abortion in Australia today because there has not been one case of an abortionist being brought to trial. 
-Nor does it prove,  Senator Puplick,  that they are illegal because, as I have said, we have not had proof that one illegal abortion has been carried out in Australia this year. 
We know there are, but how do we catch up with the people performing the abortions? How will we be able to catch up with them in the Australian Capital Territory? Therefore do not let us quibble about that point- they are abortions on demand. 
I have been asked to speak for only a quarter of an hour and therefore I would like to make one last point. We have to look at a very difficult legal position. For instance, consider the thalidomide cases and the legal protection for a threemonth old foetus. A deformed child can sue the drug company concerned for deformity caused by thalidomide. There is legal protection for a deformed child. But there is no legal protection for a 3-month-old foetus if there is an abortion, if the ultimate harm is done. No suit can be brought, for a very obvious reason- murder has been done. 
In summing up I would like to say that every legislator, every educator, every sociologist and every psychologist has found it too hard to decide when life begins. They have found that abortion is the taking of a life, the destruction of a life. They have said to the medical profession: You deal with it; you get rid of the problem; it is too difficult for us'. I believe that legislators, educators, sociologists, psychologists and any other people one would like to mention should try to deal with this problem themselves instead of just passing the problem to the medical profession and saying: 'You deal with it; you get rid of the problem; it is too difficult for us'. 
I present the following petition from 268 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth:- 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to: - 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
-by leave-I table the additional information received by Estimates Committee C and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 

 -Mr President, in case I am accused of misleading the Senate - 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Leave granted. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  In case what I have said is interpreted as seeking to mislead the Senate, I wish to make a personal explanation. I am sure that  Senator Keeffe  would want a very accurate description of my husband's position with the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd. I have contacted my husband. He is still a member of council. I was not aware of that when I spoke earlier this evening. Perhaps that shows the Senate how interested I am in my husband's position with the Medical Benefits Fund. I was not aware that he is still a member of council. He is still a member of council because of his position as Tasmanian medical representative on the Tasmanian executive committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I draw the Minister's attention to the finding of the recent health survey conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics that 2.6 per cent of children aged between one and five years had not received any triple-antigen vaccination for whooping cough, tetanus and diptheria and that 3.8 per cent of children in the same age group had not received polio vaccination. I ask the Minister whether action is being taken to ensure that all children will receive these vaccinations to protect them from the risk of potentially fatal illnesses. 
-The Estimates Committee was particularly concerned at the late tabling of annual reports. With respect to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the Department's annual report, the report of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission and the report of the Aboriginal Land Commission were all to be late. We were not able to know when the latter two reports would be tabled. I refer to the statement by the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister  (Mr Viner)  who, when commenting on the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment which was tabled yesterday, said: 
The Government shares the Committee's concern, and continual efforts are being made to ensure that government departments and statutory authorities submit reports to Parliament with the minimum of delay. 
He also said: 
In cases where annual reports cannot be finalised, for example, where there is a delay due to a statutory requirement for the Auditor-General's certification to appear in the report, it is sometimes possible to submit interim reports which provide the Parliament with much of the information contained in the final report and lacking only the official certification. 
The final sentence of that paragraph reads: 
Standing instructions require this course to be followed. 1 draw to the attention of the Committee of the Whole the fact that standing instructions require this course to be followed. I would like this Committee's support in stating that this should be adhered to with regard to annual reports prior to meetings of the Estimates Committees. 

 -As Senator Kilgariff and  Senator Georges  have said, the officers of the Department of Social Security, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and, I would like to include also, the Department of Health were asked for a tremendous amount of detail by houourable senators on the Estimates Committee. In the process of supplying the answers some errors are bound to be made. These errors are completely understandable. However, I wish to bring to the attention of the Committee of the Whole tonight a correction to one of the answers recorded in  Hansard.  During the hearing of Estimates Committee C, I asked what reserves were considered necessary for a health insurance fund to be viable.  Mr Carroll,  in answer to that question, said: 
There are varying opinions on this amongst actuaries. Professor Pollard was recently commissioned by the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia to report on the  matter of reserves for health insurance organisations in Australia. In his report, which the VHIAA lodged with the Minister, he recommends that there be a regulatory requirement that all health insurance organisations have a minimum reserve of one month with a desirable maximum of three months. 
It has come to my attention only recently that in Professor Pollard's report, which was not available to me before or which I did not seek before, his recommendations are not as stated by  Mr Carroll.  In fact, Professor Pollard said that the funds should be encouraged to operate with a solvency margin of about three months of breakeven contributions and that the minimum solvency margin be about two months of breakeven contributions, not one month. I think that generally we ask a tremendous amount of the officers and the fact that there are some odd inaccuracies does not surprise me. The officers would be really quite remarkable if that were not the case. On many occasions the information which they supply to us is from memory. 
Another matter that I bring before the Committee of the Whole is that Estimates Committee C was concerned about an evaluation of the drug program. In its report the Committee said that, in response to a request for further information, the Department replied that there had been little research conducted in Australia into the incidence of drug use and on measuring the impact of drug education programs on the level of drug abuse. The Department has collated the findings of the drug use surveys but has been unable to draw reliable conclusions because of the sparseness of survey work and the lack of comparable data. I draw to the attention of the Committee of the Whole some of the recommendations in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare entitled 'Drug Problems in Australia- an intoxicated society?'. One of the major recommendations in that report was that the Commonwealth Department of Health should develop and disseminate a standard protocol for the collection of comparable data and that researchers working on drug use problems should be encouraged to use this protocol. Another recommendation was that all drugeducation programs be evaluated against the stated aims of the National Drug Education Program. I draw these recommendations to the attention of the Committee of the Whole this evening and to the attention of the Department. 

 - Senator Douglas McClelland raised a question with which we have dealt on Estimates Committee C. We were told that the Health Insurance Commission's annual report would not be available for some time. We were not told when. No date could be given to us. 
We applied a certain amount of pressure because the same answer was given last year. That is why I spoke this evening, particularly in relation to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs but also about annual reports in general. I bring to the notice of the Senate that an interim report could have been available and should have been available before the Estimates committee considered the estimates of these departments. 
Yes, I certainly would,  Mr President.  I would have imagined that  Senator Keeffe  would have been a little more accurate in naming the various boards, directors and councils, et cetera, seeing he had done his homework so well. He said that he gave me notice. He gave me exactly three minutes' notice. Fair enough; I do not really need notice at all, anyway. He will find that there are no directors to the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia. There are councillors. 
In point of fact, my husband was a councillor, and was previously on the council. He was not a director by any means. I was answering an interjection from  Senator Walsh.  I did not go into great detail. Otherwise I could have said: 'Good heavens, no; he was not a director' and then I could have gone into how inaccurate  Senator Walsh  was. I could have gone on to explain about the council. I could have gone on to explain that my husband was no longer a member of the council but that indeed he was the medical representative on the Tasmanian committee. I could have gone into all this sort of detail and used up my valuable time. I do not believe that I have misled the Parliament in any way at all. My husband was not a director at any stage whatsoever. There are no directors of the Medical Benefits Fund. My husband was on the council; he is no longer on the council and has not been for some time. But he is still one of the medical representatives of the Tasmanian Medical Benefits Fund. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether she is aware that the Family Planning Association of the Australian Capital Territory, which is funded by this Government, was supporting the setting up of a public abortion clinic when the issue was debated in this place last week? Can the Minister say whether abortion should be considered as a legitimate method of family planning? If not, should not the Family Planning Association of the Australian Capital Territory condemn abortion rather than support its expansion and, indeed, concentrate its efforts on the necessary education of the community concerning the true family planning methods of contraception. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It follows from the derision of the Opposition when  Senator Watson  stated that this chamber was a House of review. Can the Minister say whether it is a fact that the Health Insurance Bill reviewed and amended by this Senate was returned to the House of Representatives for concurrence only last week or perhaps the week before- at least in the very recent past? Can the Minister say how many Bills have been reviewed and amended in this place and returned to the House of Representatives? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, relates to his responsibility for tourism. Does the Minister agree that with only three staff members employed in Tokyo by the Australian Tourist Commission and none in any other Asian capital, our resources for boosting Australia's tourist industry in the Asian region are too limited to be effective? 
-I believe the way in which the Opposition is making political capital out of the unemployed and the disaster that faces the unemployed, particularly the unemployed youth, is just pitiful. Matters of public importance are proposed about the matter. As much political capital as possible is being made. Yet the Government does not get any assistance from the Opposition members. Indeed I would like to know of any schemes that have been set up in the electorates of Opposition members because I think they are rather difficult to come by. I think one would find that in quite a number of the electorates of members of the Liberal Party of Australia schemes have been set up. They have set up schemes in conjunction with Lions clubs. Many such schemes have been set up and are very widely supported.  Senator Ryan  has claimed that this Government is disadvantaging and discriminating against unemployed youth in particular. She referred to the fact that during the Budget discussions the Government decided that it would freeze the unemployment benefit for single unemployed people, that is, unemployed people without dependants, to $51.45 a week. The benefit is not to go up as the consumer price index rises.  Senator Ryan  has said that this is very discriminatory. 
For the really genuine single unemployed man or woman, I honestly feel that $5 1 .45 a week is a very small amount. How they get by on that sum I am not quite sure. But the Government has to take into consideration the fact that a very large percentage of those single unemployed people live together in houses- perhaps three or four of them- and this is widely acknowledged. A large number also continue to live at home. After all it is only people who are over 18 years of age who receive $51.45 a week. A lot of people who are 18 years of age and over still live at home. But those people who do not live at home- quite a large percentage- live together in flats and houses. There is nothing whatsoever wrong with this action. 
Perhaps if we looked at what they earn when they live together it might become a little more understandable why the Government has made this decision. Four young people living together can earn between them $205.80 a week. That is just from the unemployment benefit and is not taking into consideration the additional $6 a week that each of them is entitled to earn. That would add another $24 a week. That is not a bad income for four people who are living together. Six people who are living together can earn $308.70 from the unemployment benefit plus $36 a week which they are entitled to earn before they have to repay any of the unemployment benefit. The average minimum weekly wage for a married man is $153.11. He could well have four children. Perhaps then we could understand why the Government has taken this decision. The average weekly wage of $153.11 is also taxed at the rate of $17.35. A man could have a dependent spouse and four children. For that family of six people the income is reduced to $135.76 a week. 
When one compares that situation to that of six single people living together who can bring in $340-odd a week from the unemployment benefit, this may explain to the community why the Government has made this decision. I am not saying that it is a good decision for the unemployed single person who wants to live entirely on his own, who is trying to get a job and perhaps has had to go to the city to get a flat and look for a job. That would be devastating. It would be very difficult indeed. I believe that the Government has taken into consideration the fact that by far the majority of those people who are over 18 years of age either live at home or are sharing accommodation. I think that this should be explained to  Senator Ryan  because she certainly did not mention those facts. 

 Senator Grimes said that there has been a tremendous amount of dole bludger bashing by the Government members. This is absolutely not so. I would defy anyone to say that the Government has indulged in that behaviour. It is taken up by the Opposition every time anybody says that some unemployed are selective in the jobs that they will take. I do not think anyone in the community has not come across the person who is selective and prefers to wait around for a job of his choice rather than take any job that is available. We all have come across those people. I do not believe that the Opposition members have not come across them. This matter is always construed as dole bludger bashing by the Opposition. Again I claim that it is done for political purposes only. This is what I am ashamed of. I am ashamed of the Opposition using the unemployed for political purposes only. This is the only reason that this matter of public importance has come in this place today. It is the only reason that  Senator Grimes  continually said that the Government members indulge in dole bludger bashing. It is political point scoring and I am ashamed that Opposition members would stoop so low to do that. 
Let us look at what the Labor Government did when it was in power. Seeing that the Government is being accused of being very uncaring, of not doing anything and to quote  Senator Ryan  today, 'just sitting by and not doing a thing', let us look at what the Labor Party did about the unemployment position when it was in power. Because Opposition speakers have made this a political argument I think it ought to be pointed out to the community that there are two sides to this question. In January 1 974, 2. 1 per cent of the work force was unemployed. In one year alone while the Opposition was in power, unemployment went up to 5.2 per cent. It went up by 3. 1 per cent in one year alone. An incredible number of people were suddenly thrown out of employment. What did the Opposition do when it was in power to try to correct that situation? It set up the Regional Employment Development scheme, which it found did not work. Because people keep on saying that this Government abolished the RED scheme, I point out to any journalist who may be listening that that is not so. The Labor Party abolished the RED scheme before we came to power. 
When the Labor Party was in office it also set up the National Employment and Training scheme. It is jolly interesting to note that at any one time in 1975-76 the only people who could get any benefit from that scheme were those who could work the system. The people who could work the system were the highly intelligent ones. There were 5,000 people working the system for professional and semi-professional training. There were only 188 unskilled people who were able to come under that system. When we came to government we changed that completely. We changed it to ensure that the unskilled were the ones who would benefit under the NEAT scheme, not the professional and semiprofessional. In 1976-77 there were 40,000 assisted under the NEAT scheme. As has been pointed out by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  80,000 young people have been assisted under the Special Youth Employment Training Program which in the last two years has been included in the NEAT scheme. 
Let us look at the number of youth unemployed. When the Labor Party came to government there were only 80,000 under the age of 2 1 who were unemployed. By the time the Labor Party left office there were 152,000 of them unemployed. That is not a bad increase! Yet Labor Party supporters say that we on the Government side do not care about the unemployed. Let us look at the figures relating to those under 21 years of age who are unemployed. There was a decrease in the figures for October but I think it is fair to cite the December figures because the other figures I have given are for December. The number of unemployed increased by only 1 9,000 last December. We should bear in mind that, as I have said, there were 80,000 under 21 -year-olds unemployed when the Labor Government came to government, and when it left government there were 152,543 unemployed. I think it is fairly cynical of Opposition members to say that this Govemmend does not care for the youth unemployed. 
This Government has set up quite an array of schemes. One such scheme is the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme, which I am quite sure the Opposition would say has been nothing but a great success. It has supported the apprentice scheme and it has encouraged employers to take on apprentices. An amount of $46m is to be spent this year by the Government under the CRAFT scheme. 
This Government also introduced the NEAT scheme and the SYETP. An amount of $ 122m will be spent by the Government on those two schemes. Another scheme is the Community Youth Support Scheme. There is also the Education Program for Unemployed Youth. Approximately 3,600 young people will be participating in that scheme this year. A great deal has been achieved under this scheme. Student enrolments in the 102 courses provided by this scheme number 1,535, and training has been very successful. 
I think the things which I have pointed out will underline to the community at large that this Government is concerned about the youth unemployed. This Government does not want to use them as political gimickry, as the Opposition has been doing. I believe that the good news that the inflation rate is down and the latest good news that has just been released that Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd has stated that in the six months to the end of October its domestic orders were up to 28 per cent on the previous six months augur well for the economy of this country. Once the economy is righted, once wages are stabilised then we will see a movement to a better employment standard than we have had in the last six years. 
-I am not quite sure how seriously we are meant to take  Senator Ryan's  contribution this evening. It seems to me that she must have had her tongue in her cheek when she was talking about a week's paternity leave to allow the father to get to know his newborn child and at the same time look after the other children of the family while the mother is in hospital. Perhaps we can go into that a little more thoroughly in a minute. Maternity leave provisions were first introduced into the Australian Public Service in 1966 by a Liberal Government. This was when the barrier on the continued permanent employment of women after marriage and on the appointment of married women as permanent officers was removed from the Public Service Act. They enabled women officers who became pregnant to take leave of absence without pay for a period not exceeding 26 weeks. Such an officer could use her accrued paid holiday leave to cover all or part of that absence. 
The current maternity leave Act was introduced by the Labor Government in 1973, and it is a far cry from the 1966 Act. The 1973 Act entitled female employees of the Australian Public Service and the teaching service to at least 12 weeks maternity leave on full pay- six weeks prior to the birth of the baby and six weeks after the birth of the baby. The officer could receive more leave if the baby was late in arriving. It also enabled an officer to take a maximum period of leave of 52 weeks, some of which would be without pay, and some of it could be started 20 weeks before the expected birth. The officer could use her accrued sick leave automatically without there being any need to produce a medical certificate. She could also add to this period of leave her holiday leave and her long service leave. Taking all that into consideration, a mother could be absent from her employment for up to 52 weeks. There was also no discrimination by reason of pregnancy. If a woman who sought employment in the Public Service was so many months pregnant, according to the Act there could be no discrimination and she was to be employed. 

 Senator Ryan has said that the alterations to this Act demonstrate bad faith on the part of the Government- bad faith to families, bad faith to women and bad faith to public servants. I contend that the only bad faith that they establish is bad faith to the abusers of the system, because there is no doubt that the maternity leave provisions were introduced to assist women to stay in the work force. Tonight  Senator Ryan  brought forward quite a few figures of which I am very suspicious. I have some figures which have come from the Bureau of Statistics. They show that there has been quite considerable abuse of the system. Less than 50 per cent of the women availing themselves of maternity leave have returned to the work force. 
Let us look at the source of  Senator Ryan's  figures.  Senator Ryan  referred to the statutory staff management consultative body which was the sub-committee of the Joint Council. In 1974 that body was asked to review the maternity leave Act from time to time, to keep an eye on it and to make recommendations about changes. It was asked particularly-  Senator Ryan  commented on this at the end of her speech- to look at the situation as regards the adopting parents.  Senator Ryan  said that it would be discriminatory not to include adopting parents in maternity leave provisions, Surely to heavens the reason for allowing six weeks leave to a woman prior to her having a baby is because she is carrying the baby. The six weeks leave after the birth is surely not just to allow the mother to get to know her baby but also because, hopefully, she would be breast feeding that baby. The adopting parent would not be doing either of those things. 
A discussion paper was put out by that staff management consultative body to the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. Part of that discussion paper reads:   the Act is seen as providing a disincentive to changes in patterns of parental responsibility between men and women. 
It goes on to say that it is not necessary that only women should be eligible to care for the baby and that such a restriction serves only 'to institutionalise the role of woman as child-rearer and to reinforce stereotyped views'. 
-Surely to heavens we are not getting to the stage where we will give the husbands maternity leave so that immediately following the birth of a baby they can go home and look after the baby, whom they cannot feed, and then allow the woman to return to the work force. This is the absurd length to which this statutory council will go in its efforts to add to these provisions. As  Senator Ryan  said, the Australian Council of Trade Unions is looking at the maternity leave provisions. It wants maternity leave brought in across-the-board to cover all private employment. I believe that, particularly at the moment, our economy cannot stand that sort of flow on. We can cope with unpaid maternity leave but we cannot cope with paid maternity leave. Because of that I will be accused of being against women generally. I have never heard anything quite so ridiculous.  Senator Ryan  must surely agree that the figures show that the majority of women want to look after their own baby. They do not want to put the baby in a creche as soon as it is born and return to the work force. The majority of women have decided that they want to look after their own babies and the figures that I have prove it. 
The figures for 1975-76, which are the latest figures that the Bureau of Statistics can give us, show that 57 per cent of women- not 50 per cent, but 57 per cent- resigned in the same year that they took their maternity leave. These figures are authentic: They are from the Bureau of Statistics. Of the 57 per cent who resigned after taking maternity leave, some did so after taking the maximum time- that is, 49 weeks to 52 weeks. Their jobs in departments were vacant for a whole year while the departments waited for them to return but they did not return; they resigned. Of the women taking the maximum leave of 49 to 52 weeks, 66 per cent resigned. I believe that in the beginning maternity leave was brought in specifically to assist women to return to the work force. But they are not all returning to the work force. If, as we find is the case, 57 per cent of them are not returning to the work force but indeed are resigning, the legislation is certainly falling down. Let us look at the Bill as it stands. 
As I said a moment ago, and  Senator Ryan  was obviously not listening, the majority of women are resigning because they want to look after their new babies. They do not want to return to the work force immediately after having their babies and put their babies in a creche. They want to look after the babies themselves. They want to bring up the babies themselves.  Senator Ryan  does not even acknowledge that the maternal instinct exists. Of course it exists. The mothers are not returning to the work force purely and simply because they want to bring up their own babies. They do not want to re-enter the work force just after they are home from hospital. 
Let us look at the Act as it stands and the amendments to it. We are abolishing paternity leave. We are abolishing that one week's leave that  Senator Ryan  said was so essential for the father to get to know his new baby. After all, it takes nine months for a mother to have a baby. If the father cannot organise his holidays in that nine months so that he can have at least a week of his holidays shortly after his wife gets out of hospital or, if they already have a family, he cannot organise his holidays so that he can look after the children while she is in hospital there is something radically wrong with the system. I am quite sure that he can do it. There is no need for him to take off that week without pay. He can organise his holidays. Then we come to the qualifying period of one year for paid maternity leave. As  Senator Ryan  said, in 1976-77 there were employed by the Commonwealth Public Service 80 women who were pregnant when they went into the Service and who immediately took their maternity leave. I wonder how many of those women have since resigned. 
-No. I do not know. I have no idea. I know that 57 per cent resign anyway, so obviously at least 57 per cent of those 80 women resigned as soon as they had taken their maternity leave. The abuse of this provision has been colossal. Yes, this Government has bad faith with the abusers of the system but it has not bad faith with the family, with the women of this society or with the Public Service. We are no longer allowing automatic entitlement to sick leave. This is one of the things with which I noted that  Senator Ryan  disagreed. Entitlement to automatic sick leave has been abused. One cannot possibly take sick leave if one is not sick. The previous Government allowed accrued sick leave to be taken automatically and this, of course, was an abuse. It is no longer to be permitted. Maternity leave will be a standardised 12 weeks paid leave and a delay in the birth of the baby will not entitle a woman to have additional leave. Twelve weeks will be the standard amount of leave on full pay. 
I think that that probably explains the amendments to the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act. I do not think there is anything I can add to that.  Senator Ryan  has tried to put across that this Government has bad faith but I believe that the community at large will be only too happy to accept the amendments to the maternity leave provisions. They are reasonable and realistic. I believe that they will encourage the woman who genuinely wants to stay in the Public Service and who wants also to raise a family. I have every sympathy with her if she wishes to do this, but I have no sympathy with the woman who wants to accept maternity and resign immediately afterwards. This is an abuse of the intention of the original Act. One other point I have not mentioned is that these amendments also will not allow unpaid leave to count towards service for any purpose. Again I believe that this is another amendment that is well worth while. 1 have every confidence in these Bills and, along with the rest of my colleagues, I support them. 
I have listened to  Senator Cavanagh  's remarks and have had discussions with both the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the departmental officers, and I would like  Senator Cavanagh  's suggestion, which certainly raised doubts in my mind, to be taken to the Regulations and Ordinances Committee for that Committee to look at it. This is something that I believe  Senator Cavanagh  has brought to the attention of the Senate - 
I do not mind whether it is referred to the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee, so long as it is referred. I would like some further action taken on the point that  Senator Cavanagh  has raised tonight. 
-The intention of the Minister was that a review be allowed. I am quite sure that the intention of the Bill was that a power of review be given to the Senate over any discretion of the Minister. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations whether his attention has been drawn to a pamphlet entitled 'Adult Training 79' put out by  Mr John  Forster, Tasmanian State Secretary of the Society of Engineers? If so, could the Minister say in what regard the Government holds this responsible attempt by a union leader to bring to the attention of both employer and union members the problems Australia faces in the training of its adult work force, particularly in the area of technology? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs whether the law relating to the inclusion of particulars as to nutritional value on the labels of packaged food is uniform throughout Australia. Further, is it a fact that the law as it stands allows more nutritional information on packaged dog food than on most packaged foods for human consumption? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. It has four parts and results from my concern about insufficient State Government funding for the pre-school component of the Lady Gowrie Child Centre in my State. Can the Minister tell the Senate the amount of the Federal Government's allocations to Tasmania in block grant funding for pre-schools in 1978-79? What was the amount allocated to Tasmania by the Commonwealth under the new federalism, as a percentage of personal income tax revenue for 1978-79? Is it true that the Tasmanian Government is entitled to make a special application for funds to the Commonwealth Grants Commission if it can demonstrate hardship in funding pre-schools in the State? If so, has the Tasmanian Government made an approach to the Commonwealth Grants Commission? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Has the Minister any indication of when the Government will receive the report from the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training, which was commissioned 2! years ago? 
-Can the Minister for Education verify that the following anomaly exists in the administration of the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowance? Can the Minister say whether it is possible for the TEAS allowance to be paid to the spouse of a partner whose financial position has increased dramatically in the current year? Is this a result of the TEAS payments being assessed on the previous year's combined income? Does this situation allow the spouse of a newly qualified academic, who could be drawing the high salary of either a teacher or a medical resident, for example, still to draw the TEAS allowance? If this is so, could the Minister put the onus on the student claiming the allowance to inform the Education Department if his or her financial position changes for the better in the current year? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to the article in the Saturday evening  Mercury  of 24 February which ridicules the International Year of the Child and underlines the journalist's total ignorance of the aims of the United Nations and of this Government in celebrating that year? Can the Minister indicate the damage that this type of irresponsible reporting does to the Year of the Child and would she remind the media of the need for their co-operation in this regard? 
I present two petitions from 2046 and 2599 citizens of Australia, respectively: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the provision of payments for abortion through items of the Medical Benefits Schedule is an unacceptable endorsement of abortion which has now reached the levels of a national tragedy with at least 60,000 unborn babies being killed in 1977. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will so amend the Medical Benefits Schedule as to preclude the payment of any benefit for abortion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and read. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, concerns the provision of facilities for continuing education for nurses in Tasmania. Can the Minister say whether any consideration is being given to establishing external studies for nurses in the community health field? This matter is particularly important to my State of Tasmania as there are no facilities there for continuing nursing education. 
-I draw the Senate's attention to the fact that every time unemployment and the Depression is mentioned, we get an emotional tirade from honourable senators opposite that things have never been so bad since the days of the Depression. By implication they are comparing the figures of today with the figures of the Depression years. When  Senator Harradine  moved this motion and before he explained it, my immediate reaction was that here we go again comparing the Depression days with today. What he said following his moving of the motion really does not explain why he is comparing today's figures with those of the Depression days. So I would like to draw the Senate's attention to the figures for those years. The total number of people employed in the work force in 1933 was 2,681,000. Now it is 6,367,000 people. There is quite a difference between those figures. In 1975 the total number of people in the work force was 6,078,200. As I said previously, it has gone up to 6,367,000. That represents an increase of 288,800 people employed in Australia. So, if one has a look at the figures for the years between 1975 when the Australian Labor Party left government and today, one finds that private enterprise has created jobs for 288,800 people. The unemployment rate has increased in that same period. But in 1974, in one year alone, the Opposition when in government increased the unemployment rate by 3. 1 per cent. Since the Labor Party left government the unemployment rate has increased by 1.5 per cent. 
-Senator Georges should bear in mind that although the unemployment rate has gone up by 1.6 per cent we have found an additional 288,800 jobs in that period of time. That figure represents the difference between the total number of people in the work force today and the total number of people in the work force in 1975. 
You are telling me. At least we are trying. The Opposition when in government did not even attempt it.  Senator Georges  is now on record as admitting that the Labor Government made no attempt but that at least we are trying. 
-Senator Georges seems pretty upset at what he just said. Perhaps we could look at the cause of the increase in unemployment. Various reasons have been given for this but perhaps the most important one is the increase in wages. We all know what happened to wages. We know that the Labor Government's Minister for Labor said that an increase in one person's wage costs another man his job. The Labor Party itself was quite horrified at the increase in wages and, towards the end of its time in office, was trying to curb it. We also know that industrial disputes have caused a tremendous amount of unemployment. The figures are quite incredible. I have them with me. Perhaps honourable senators will hang on while I get them. 
-Here they are. I will not keep  Senator Button  waiting any longer. In 1974 industrial disputes were responsible for 6,292,500 days lost. That is an incredible number. The number of working days lost is dropping. This Government has created a climate in which the number of industrial days lost has dropped considerably. In 1977 it was reduced to 1,654,800 days lost. That is a considerable drop. Nevertheless, industrial disputes created the position-  Senator Harradine  was talking on this point- where, if there is to be disruption and if there are to be incredible wage rises, the employer would rather take on extra technology, machines to do someone else's job. So we have reached the position where the militant workers are working themselves out of a job. They are doing that by causing industrial disputes and upheavals and by their demands for unreasonable wages. If we face that fact which, I believe, is the greatest cause at the moment of the unemployment situation, perhaps the blame should be laid at someone else 's doorstep. 
I do not want to be taken the wrong way by any means when speaking on this subject but we have to look at the number of married women in the work force. There is every justification for a woman who wishes to work to seek a job and to hold down a job. But if we want to see why this incredible number of jobs is still being demanded and why in three years we have had to find 288,800 jobs- this is a large number of jobs to find in three years- we have to look at the figures. Let us go back to the Depression years to which the Opposition keeps referring. In 1933, 54,800 women were employed in the work force. That number represented 2.04 per cent of the married women in Australia. It represented 4.2 per cent of the total work force. In 1975 the number of married women in the work force increased quite considerably. The increase in the number between 1973 and the end of 1975 was quite significant. In 1 973, 1 , 1 7 1 ,200 women were employed in the work force. That figure increased to 1,429,200 in 1975. Since then it has increased to only 1,436,800. The percentage of married women in the work force has also risen quite considerably. In 1933 the participation rate of married women in the work force was 4.2 per cent. 
In 1975 it increased to 41.9 per cent. The figure is still increasing and now 42 per cent of married women are in the work force. As  Senator Georges  said, good luck to them. 
I could not agree with that statement. A very large increase has occurred in the number of married women in the work force. There is no reason why women should not work. I disagree with  Senator Harradine  's remark that married women have been forced into the work force. I believe that people today, receiving the wages that they do, are better off by far than were people employed in the pre-Depression years when only 4.2 per cent of women were in the work force. It is not a case of women being forced into the work force. They enter it because they desire to do so. Women today have a far higher expectation for their families than did women in the past. They want the material things of life in a far greater capacity than was ever considered before. I do not agree with  Senator Harradine  's comments. I do not believe that they have been forced into the work force by any means. I believe that they have chosen to enter the work force. Bearing in mind that they have chosen to enter the work force, they have every right to be there. 
-Senator Georges is saying that we should make it easier for them to get the material things they want without having to work. I believe that considerable recognition should be given to the woman who stays at home and looks after a family. This Government is very sympathetic towards that view. However, we must first get the economy and inflation completely under control.  Senator Grimes  talked about dole bludger bashing. One question still remains unanswered. A considerable number of young people are legitimately looking for full time work. A tremendous amount of part time work is available. Vacancies for seasonal work are very difficult to fill not only in Tasmania, but also in all other States. People do not want to take part time jobs. There are regular complaints from soft fruit growers who cannot get people to pick their soft fruits. I know this applies throughout the whole of Australia. Young people are not seeking part time jobs; they are seeking full time jobs. They are not particularly interested in giving up their unemployment benefit to take a part time job and then go through the rigmarole of reapplying for the unemployment benefit once that part time job is finished. 
However, I am quite sure that all Opposition senators who visit places of industry come up with exactly the same thing as I do. The other day I returned a car which had been hired. A person from the hire service said: 'Do not talk to me about unemployment. I put an advertisement in the paper for a young lad to come and wash cars. Three people applied, none of whom wanted the job. I applied to the Commonwealth Employment Service office. It sent people down. One lad walked in, looked around and said: "What, wash cars all day? Not me".' He walked off. That firm has now taken on two other lads. This is the sort of feedback we get from industry. Yet we know all too well that there are unemployed people, particularly young people, who are legitimately looking for a full time job and not finding one. But there is no getting away from the fact that there are those who can work but are not willing to do so. 
Perhaps we could look at the reason why some young people do not want to work. This Government came under criticism when it froze the unemployment benefit for a single person with no dependants at $5 1.40. There are three categories of unemployed single people. There is the young unemployed person who comes from the country to the city legitimately looking for a job. He has to find accommodation and pay fares while he is doing that. I do not know how he gets by on $5 1 .40 but it appears that he does. He finds a job pretty soon. Other young unemployed people live at home. The sum of $51.40 makes it quite easy for them to pay board while they are looking for a job. They are quite comfortable. There is a third group of unemployed people- those who live together. We can compare those people with the man with a family on the minimum wage. The unemployed are far better off. Four unemployed young people living together can bring into one household each week $229.60 which represents their combined unemployment benefit, plus $6 each which they are allowed to earn without losing any benefit. They pay no tax on that amount. A man with a family on the minimum wage earns only $183 each week and pays tax. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Collard)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health inform the Senate whether the Commonwealth Government is able to take unilateral action which will force the State of Tasmania to close the maternity unit in the Ulverstone Hospital in Tasmania, as is indicated in Press reports by the Tasmanian Minister for Health,  Mr Barnard? 
I feel at bit like  Senator Georges  - 
In that I am speaking on a subject without the benefit of my notes.  Senator Georges  often takes up time by talking about red kangaroos and all sorts of things while he waits for someone to come into the chamber. 
I am waiting for  Senator Melzer.  The Australian Wine Board prepared a film which the Standing Committee on Social Welfare saw some 6 months ago. In producing the film the Board abused every section of the voluntary advertising code. The film that we saw was done in the form of a skit. I yield to  Senator Melzer,  who has just arrived in time to relieve me of my task of carrying on. I wish to thank her. 
I recall that I am in continuation from 28 September last year. 
I jogged my memory, senator. 
-Thank you. That is unusual. I did not recognise the compliment. But you do me too much justice, senator, because I had to re-read my speech to find out where I was up to. While doing so 1 found several firsts. For example,  Senator Georges  agreed with me for the first time. 
-Yes you did, senator. It was on 28 September last year. 

 - Senator Georges, you have not done that since except for yesterday when again you agreed with me. By way of interjection you said that we were the only people who at least had tried to look after the unemployed but the others had not tried at all. 
-Yes, and therefore there is no point of order. 
-Senator Georges, if you read yesterday's  Hansard  you will find that you said: 'At least you tried to do something about it: The others didn't try at all'. 
-That is in the  Hansard  record and the interjection was addressed to me. However, as I say, yesterday was the first time since 28 September last year that  Senator Georges  agreed with me. But I did rather better on that occasion because, according to  Senator Cavanagh,  I also won him over.  Senator Puplick,  you probably will remember that on that occasion you said that I had not won you over. I also made the comment that I did not really anticipate that I ever could.  Senator Mulvihill  also agreed with me on that occasion so I really feel that I did pretty well. 
If you had not arrived so late,  Senator Georges,  you would know what the debate was about. 
-Senator Georges, I will give you a recommendation for your preselection. 
-Senator Georges, do you really believe that I could pull the last straw? I would if I could, senator. I think,  Mr Deputy President,  that I should get back to the subject at hand. On 28 September I was in the process of reading the recommendations that our Senate Standing Committee had brought down in respect of analgesics. 
Thank you very much, senator. I had already read one recommendation by the Committee- that all analgesics, whether prescribed or not, carry a warning on the container. I said that we were not particularly happy about this. We felt that it was something we could do but we realised that such a warning had not really been successful in the case of cigarettes. Another of the recommendations was that all non-prescriptive analgesics in packets containing more than 25 tablets or 12 powders be available only from pharmacies. The next recommendation was that the Commonwealth Department of Health monitor consumer usage of and attitudes towards the proprietary medicines to measure the effects of the various intervention strategies. 
On 25 May last year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  brought down a statement on Parliamentary committee reports. I should like to read just a short part of that statement because it is very important to Senate standing committees. The Prime Minister said: 
All honourable members will recognise that a great deal of most valuable work is done by committees of this Parliament. It is important that the reports of these committees, many of which reflect considerable thought, effort and often insight, receive full and careful attention by Ministers and by the Government. It is equally desirable that a procedure be  established to make sure that Parliament is aware of the decisions which the Government takes in connection with such reports. 
The Prime Minister then went on to say: 
Henceforth, within six months of the tabling of a committee report, the responsible Minister will make a statement in the Parliament outlining the action the Government proposes to take in relation to the report. If the six-month period expires during a parliamentary recess, the ministerial statement will be made at the earliest opportunity in the next parliamentary sitting. 
We know that our report was published in October 1978, well before the Prime Minister's statement. But six months have elapsed since that statement was made and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has sought an extension of time. It is a very complex report and I believe that at the moment it is being looked at by an interdepartmental committee. I also believe that recommendations will be going to Cabinet shortly. I sincerely hope that the recommendations of the Committee will be looked upon favourably. They are very important. I consider that the whole report has been very worth while. It has been an education not only to the Senate Standing Committee members but to the whole of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to the report that the Tasmanian  President  of the Printing and Kindred Industries Union has claimed that child pornography is being printed in Australia using imported printing plates and that the Union has placed bans on all agencies connected with printing and publishing child pornography? Can the Minister verify the accuracy of this claim? If it is correct, can he not only take appropriate action to have the practice stopped but also commend the Union for bringing this illegal importation to the notice of the public? 
-Is the Minister for Science and the Environment aware of a claim by the Senior Lecturer in Administration at the University of Tasmania that the Federal Cabinet has under review the following Acts: the Environmental Protection Act, the Australian Heritage Commission Act, the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service Act, and the Great Barrier Marine Authority Act? It is also claimed that the specific aim of the review is to downgrade, if not abolish, these vital statutes at the behest of the Australian Mining Industry Council and the reactionary premiers of Queensland and Western Australia. Can the Minister deny or verify these claims? 
-by leave-I would like to be associated with the previous speakers in expressing condolences to the wife and family of Eric Bessell. I did not know Eric very well but he had a large and obviously very loving family. I believe that he was one of the few politicians able to acomplish the best of both worlds by being a good family man as well as a good politician. The number of people who attended his funeral underlined how well the North Coast of Tasmania in particular but Tasmania as a whole respected him. It must have been a great comfort to Rita, his wife. I express my condolences to Rita and his family. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I invite honourable senators to stand in silence as a mark of respect to the memory of the late former  Senator Bessell. 

 Honourable senators having stood in their places- 

The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I thank the Senate. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science and the Environment. It follows from the earlier question asked by  Senator Collard.  Is it a fact that the contamination by newsprint referred to by  Senator Collard  is a result of the specific newspaper mentioned not using paper produced in Tasmania? Honourable senators may laugh but it is perfectly true. Is it not a fact that the high class Tasmanian paper leaves the hands and the clothing of the reader completely clean? Is the Minister willing to advise all those people who do not wish to contaminate their hands to read only newspapers which use paper produced in Tasmania? 
Is the Attorney-General aware that the National Health Act was last reprinted to December 1973? Since then the volume of amendments to it has reached such proportions that the publication, with pasted-in amendments, is well nigh impossible to manage. Can the Attorney-General say when the National Health Act will be reprinted incorporating all amendments to date? 
-Can the Minister for Social Security give to the chamber the latest figures for applications for the unemployment benefit? Is it true that these figures support the continued downward trend in unemployment? 
-The speech by  Senator Primmer  was an extraordinary contribution to the debate. The Senate heard about the Philbys and Burgesses in the United Kingdom and it was said that that is a good reason for being sceptical about the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. The Senate heard of alleged assassination squads that planned to assassinate  Mr Whitlam  and former  Senator Murphy  and it was also said that because ASIO did not discover those plans we have reason to be sceptical of the Organisation. I am wondering how much inside information  Senator Primmer  has which leads him to say that when the chips are down ASIO is not worth a crumpet. Would he really know? Would he have have been told how often ASIO has acted and kept people under surveillance to guarantee the security of our country? There is no way that we in Australia can expect ASIO to look after the security of every individual if we tie its hands and do not give it the means of accomplishing that job. 
The Government is implementing in this legislation the basic reforms recommended by the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security led by  Mr Justice  Hope. This Royal Commission was set up by the Opposition when it was in government. At that time it had considerable reason to believe that this Royal Commission would look into the structure of ASIO and produce a responsible report. So far the Senate has had a lot of quotations from the report of  Mr Justice  Hope criticising the way in which some ASIO functions were previously carried out.  Senator Ryan  and  Senator Missen  said that we are rushing through this Bill. Perhaps the honourable senators opposite have forgotten that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  when tabling this report in October 1977 foreshadowed the introduction of this Bill. There has been considerable debate about the relevant restructuring of this Bill. All honourable senators have been lobbied; we know the people of Australia have had a good look at it but still it is being said that it is being rushed through. 
This is a completely new Bill; the Bill which was introduced 23 years ago is being replaced. Already there have been substantial changes. There is now a complete oversight by independent senior officials of all the budgetary estimates of ASIO and this has resulted in a much more efficient management of the Organisation. 
The functions of ASIO are to obtain, correlate and evaluate intelligence relevant to security; for purposes relevant to security and not otherwise, to communicate any such intelligence to the appropriate people; and to advise Ministers and authorities of the Commonwealth in respect of matters relating to security. It is emphasised that ASIO does not act as an enforcement agency; it cannot enforce measures. This is emphasised in clause 17(2) which states: 
It is not a function of the Organization to carry out or enforce measures for security within an authority of the Commonwealth. 
The Bill goes on to say that any information picked up by ASIO in any of its functions must relate to the security of the nation. There has been quite an amount of criticism that perhaps by way of, say, listening devices or the opening of mail some information not related to the security of the nation could come into the hands of ASIO. As a result the Government has provided in this legislation that if that sort of information is picked up it must be very serious information before it is passed on; otherwise it must not be passed on to any authority. The seriousness of the information is judged by the offence to which it relates being punishable by imprisonment for life. In other words, if in the course of its duties ASIO comes across information about a murder about to be committed or a murder just committed, it is entitled to give that information to the relevant organisation. The information can also relate to offences attracting a maximum period of imprisonment of not less than 3 years. I believe that no clear thinking Australian would expect ASIO if it came up with information on a murder about to be committed to say that that information does not relate to the security of the country and therefore cannot be passed on. It is only reasonable to expect information of such a serious character to be passed on to the relevant police force. 
The second category of information referred to in the Bill involves an offence punishable under section 235 of the Customs Act. They would be offences in relation to narcotics. If ASIO came across that information unsuspectingly we would expect it to pass on that information. Again, if information comes into the possession of the Organisation outside Australia I believe that the Director-General must require that information to be passed on if he is satisfied that it is in the national interest to do so. If any information outside those guidelines is passed onthat is, information about a minor offence- it is punishable by a $1,000 fine or one year's imprisonment or, in special circumstances, a 2-year sentence. I believe that these provisions underline what ASIO is all about. It is not a lawenforcement agency. It correlates and gathers information and passes on to the relevant Ministers and departments information about the security of the nation. Any information it picks up along the way is ignored if it is of a minor nature or, if it is of a major nature, it is passed on to the relevant people. 
I would now like to talk about the additional powers that have been granted to ASIO under this Bill, a matter that seems to be of concern to quite a number of honourable senators. Those additional powers concern the entering of premises to search for records, the use of listening devices and the opening and inspection of mail. In relation to these three additional powers there are safeguards. The Director-General cannot decide of his own accord to issue warrants to enter premises, apply listening devices or inspect postal articles. A warrant must be issued by the Minister. In regard to the searching of premises the Minister must specify on the warrant the special hours, either daytime or night-time, and he can issue a warrant for a duration of only seven days. As far as listening devices are concerned, in a critical situation the DirectorGeneral can hand out a warrant, but for a very limited duration of only 48 hours. People have been critical of this provision, and  Senator Ryan  asked what sort of crisis would bring this about. If a telephone conversation were in progress the Director-General would hardly be able to get a warrant from the Minister. I believe that in those circumstances he ought to be able to issue a warrant to listen in to the conversation. As long as there are powers limiting the duration of the warrant to 48 hours, then I believe that that is reasonable. 
Dealing with the appointment of the DirectorGeneral, whilst many people applaud our present Director-General, it is also said: 'You never know who we might get next'. The Bill provides that the Prime Minister will appoint the Director-General in consultation with the Leader of the Opposition. The office of DirectorGeneral will be held for a period not exceeding seven years and after that, of course, the occupant is eligible for reappointment. He will not be reappointed after he has turned 65 years of age, and nobody who is 65 years of age can be appointed. 
-No, that is quite right. Those are the restrictions and safeguards that the Bill provides. In regard to a normal security assessment made in respect of employees of the Commonwealth, or a Commonwealth contractor, or in respect of a person for the purposes of the Migration Act, the Australian Citizenship Act or the Passports Act, if an assessment is made that is prejudicial to such a person's interests then he must be given notice of his assessment. He can then make an appeal to a tribunal, and this is the first time, at least in a common law country, that such a provision has been implemented. There is complete protection of the individual's rights. In normal circumstances, if a security assessment has been made, a person is told that this has been done and, if he so desires, he is able to take an appeal to a judicial tribunal. Of course, in regard to gross security assessments, a person would not be told. We could hardly expect that an enemy agent would be told that he was the subject of a security assessment, and in those cirucmstances, of course, such a person would not be given any notice. 
Turning to clause 8, it is made very clear that the Director-General controls the Organisation.  Senator Ryan  was particularly critical of this when she said that the Minister of the day should be able to override the Director-General in every regard. I believe that that is entirely wrong. If we look at the areas in which the Minister has no power over the Director-General, we find that they are very limited. Of course, the DirectorGeneral abides by the guidelines set down by the Government. On the question of whether the collection of intelligence by the Organisation concerning a particular individual would or would not be justified by reason of its relevance to security, then the Minister could not override the Director-General. In other words, the Minister is not able to prohibit the Director-General looking into the background of a particular individual. If the Director-General considers that such a person ought to be investigated then the Minister cannot override that decision and say to the Director-General: 'You shall not investigate Joe Smith. ' Again, I think that that is a very justifiable restriction on the Minister. Further, the Minister must leave it to the Director-General to decide whether information gained is relevant to security. If certain information is gained, then the Minister is not able to say. 'No, I do not believe that that is in the interests of the security of the country.' The Director-General must make that decision. The Minister cannot direct the Director-General as to what information should or should not be given either to another Minister or to the Minister's Department or to an authority of the Commonwealth. I believe that that should be at the direct discretion of the DirectorGeneral and should not be in the hands of the Minister. The legislation provides also for complete co-operation between ASIO and the police forces and other State authorities. 
I should like to return now to my main theme. If we want ASIO to carry out security in this country then we must allow it to do so without tying its hands too much.  Senator Primmer  's criticism of ASIO I believe was completely irresponsible. We have to trust our law enforcement officers. We have to trust ASIO, which is gathering information necessary to give us the security that we believe is so essential in this country. I have very much pleasure in supporting the Bill before the chamber. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he has seen the list of names and addresses of supposed staff members of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation which was published by the Committee for the 
Abolition of Political Police. If this list is accurate, can the Minister say whether this action is considered as harassing the persons concerned? If so, what action is available to them? 
-I present the report of the Symposium on Development Co-operation held by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the Council of Europe in Paris on 6 and 7 December 1 978. 1 seek leave to make a brief statement. 
Leave granted. 
Following the 'very strong wish' of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that the Australian Parliament should be represented at the Symposium on Development Co-operation held at the headquarters of the OECD in Paris on 6 and 7 December 1978, three members of the Federal Parliament were selected for this purpose. They were  Mr Michael  Baume, M.P., the honourable member for Macarthur,  Mr Ralph  Willis, M.P., the honourable member for Gellibrand and  Senator Shirley  Walters, senator for Tasmania. The Symposium was held in the context of the growing income differences between the rich and poor nations of the world, which have been exacerbated by the political difficulties many developed nations now have in achieving aid objectives because of problems of unemployment and inflation at home. This has resulted in a decline in official aid to lesser developed countries as a proportion of the gross domestic product of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development nations. In addition, the protectionist policies of the developed world pose a major threat, particularly to the future of the newly industrialised nations, while the mounting burden of external debt by the LDCs now means that 20 per cent of their total export income is going into the servicing of borrowings. As so many of the world's LDCs are in Australia's region, the Symposium had a special significance for Australia. 
The Australian delegation participated fully in the Symposium which provided an important opportunity to exchange views on the many difficulties involving relationships between developed and developing nations. The Australian delegation is of the opinion that, while disagreements at the Symposium were so great that no agreed declaration could be issued, the opportunity it presented to expose European parliamentarians to Australian attitudes on this matter made it worth while. In addition, the extent of evident recognition by European parliamentarians of the merit of many of the attitudes expressed by non-European participants, including Australians, suggests that failure to attend future symposiums or conferences of this kind could act to Australia 's disadvantage. 
The Symposium, in general, expressed a strongly supportive view of the reports presented to it by the Development Assistance Commission and in particular, by  Mr Mommersteeg,  Rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Although no members of parliament in the 'developing' world attended the Symposium, the Pakistan Ambassador to Paris,  Mr Iqbal  Akhund, presented a strong address stressing the need for an improvement in trading relations between the developing countries and the developed world. These papers and the addresses by Ambassador Akhund and  Mr James  P. Grant,  President  of the Overseas Development Council of the United States of America, are attached, along with the opening addresses by  Mr Van  Lennep, Secretary-General of the OECD, and  Mr de  Koster,  President  of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Also attached is a list of participants at the Symposium and a copy of the program, along with formal questions to the main speakers by the Australian delegates and a summary of the replies. 
It was an honour for the Australian delegation that  Senator Shirley  Walters was selected to chair the public session on the afternoon of 7 December dealing with 'Public and Parliamentary Attitudes to Relations with Developing Countries'. At the end of this session a draft declaration was submitted for discussion and a copy of this is attached. The Australian delegates objected to sections of this declaration and sought to have it amended. These amendments, along with many from other delegations, are also attached. 
The Australian delegation expressed its concern to the Symposium about the uneven nature of trade benefits to donor countries that may emerge from development assistance to developing nations, particularly the newly industrialised nations.  Mr Grant  had pointed to the significant trading benefits that generally emerged from the provision of aid to rapidly industrialising countries in the Third World and this was underlined in a paper 'Salient features of recent development experience and developing country participation in the world economy' that had been prepared for the Symposium by the secretariat. This pointed out: 
Exports of manufactured goods from developing countries to OECD countries have grown by about fifteen per cent per year in real terms in the past ten years. The newly industrialising countries (or NICS) account for over three quarters of OECD imports of such products from developing countries . . . OECD exports of manufactures to the newly industrialising countries have also grown rapidly. The NICS deficit in trade and manufactures with the industrialised countries rose from $4.6 billion to SI 7.6 billion in 1976 . . . over the same period, the OECD surplus in such trade with all non-European non-OPEC developing countries rose from about $ 1 1 billion to over $37 billion. 
The Australian delegation pointed to this experience and expressed concern that pressures to increase the aid commitment by countries such as Australia which are not major exporters of capital equipment could well result simply in a substantial increase in OECD exports with relatively little benefit to the non-European nations providing the aid. In other words: 'We provide the aid and you get the trade '. 
The Australian delegation pressed the view that the developed nations should adopt acceptable trade practices, particularly in respect of imports of manufactures from the NICs. In this context, it was pointed out that, while Australia did maintain some trade restraints, it did not employ the prohibitions and similar embargoes that are maintained within the European Economic Community. As a result, the Australian delegation supported the suggested amendments to the draft declaration which stated that the meeting would renew efforts to give manufacturers from the lesser developed countries freer access to the industrialised countries' markets. This replaces the unacceptable proposal that access be free'. 
The delegation was concerned at the view expressed by European parliamentarians at the Symposium that European food surpluses could be justified by the increasing trend to world food shortages in underdeveloped nations. When this view was expressed in the draft declaration, the Australian delegation sought to amend it and argued that the enormous volumes of money involved in providing food surpluses in Europe would be far more effectively used increasing the agricultural capacity of those nations with food shortages, if the Europeans were genuine in seeking to overcome this problem. As a result,  Mr Baume  and  Mr McNamara,  United Kingdom, jointly moved an amendment that this meeting of parliamentarians: . . . considers it urgent to draw public attention to the contribution which expanded investment programs for food production in developing countries can make, not only towards the relief of hunger and malnutrition in these countries, but also to stable food prices for consumers in all countries. 
The Australian delegation also sought to include an addendum that parliamentarians would endeavour: 
To ensure that any progress towards liberalising world trade in manufactures be accompanied by similar moves in commodities (particularly in respect of non-tariff barriers), so that lesser developing countries will be able to share fully in any successes in diminishing the excessive protectionism of developed nations or groups of nations. 
Overall, however, the thrust of the declaration received the broad support of the Australian delegation, which stressed the need for the objectives of freer trade by the industrialised nations with the lesser developed nations, and that it should extend into the Asian and Pacific regions, not only into Africa, which some European nations consider to be their sphere of influence and with which they have traditional ties. 
The Australian delegation pointed out that Australia's aid contribution to the LDCs was higher, at 0.45 per cent of GDP, than the OECD average of 0.32 per cent, and that the great bulk of Australia's aid was untied- a situation considerably different from that obtaining for many European donors. The Australian delegation also stressed the fact that the concentration on the development of export industries among the lesser developed countries was not necessarily in the best interests of the recipient nations. In many instances, the export industries did not provide either employment or flow-on benefits to the bulk of the population and simply provided a cheaper manufacturing base for transnational corporations than they enjoyed in developed nations. It was suggested that European aid appeared, in many instances, to have the objective of bringing ultimate trade benefits to the donor country and that this improperly influenced the criteria used in establishing the manner in which aid funds should be allocated. 
The delegation expressed its concern that European trading practices, as evidenced by the EEC experience, did not give cause for confidence that the expressions of good faith towards developing countries at this Symposium would be translated into practice. The parliamentarians were reminded of the extent to which the EEC had discriminated against Australian exports and those of other nations in the region, while at the same time enormous food surpluses, which had been created behind an artificial protective barrier, were now being dumped on Australia's traditional markets in the region. The draft declaration was subjected to so many suggested amendments, including those from the Australian delegation which recommended material changes, that the Symposium agreed there was not sufficient time available to resolve the disagreements, and as a result it was accepted that the draft and the suggested amendments all be submitted to the Council of Europe as an expression of various opinions at the Symposium on development aid. 
The delegation is grateful for the courtesy extended to it by the  President  of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe,  Mr H.  J. de Koster, who entertained delegates at a reception at the Chateau de la Muette and to  Mr Van  Lennep, Secretary-General of the OECD, who entertained delegates at a luncheon at the same venue. The Australian Ambassador to the OECD in Paris, Ambassador Donovan, and his staff provided essential assistance to the delegation. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to the advertisement in the  Mercury  of 3 March 1979 for the position of a worker for the Women's Shelter in Hobart? Does the advertisement discriminate against the majority of people who could apply for this position by the final sentence which points out that if the person applying believes in a feminist principle it would be an advantage? Does the Minister consider that a feminist principle, which is usually interpreted as a women's movement principle, is an advantage for those who care for women forced into seeking shelter? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, follows from one I asked earlier this year relating to postsecondary education for nurses in Tasmania. The answer the Minister gave then was that the Government's decision would be taken after advice from the Tertiary Education Commission. Given the deprivation experienced by nurses in Tasmania due to lack of access to further education, I ask the Minister whether an external studies course could be made available as an immediate interim measure until the Government's decision on post-secondary nursing education is finalised. 
-I enter this debate very briefly just to say that  Senator Grimes  must have missed  Senator Chipp  's later statement in which he said that no agreement had been made between him and the Government Whip. 
I was in the chamber when this first happened. I was not here in the early part of this adjournment debate but I was certainly here from 8 o'clock right through the whole of the debate prior to  Senator Chipp  's motion and following it- from the beginning to the end. I am just pointing out to  Senator Grimes  that he might not have heard  Senator Chipp  towards the end of his tirade agree that there had been no agreement between him and the Whip. 
You finished tonight by saying that you thought it ought to be clarified by both sides. I thought  Senator Chipp  clarified it this evening by saying that there had been no agreement between him and the Whip. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. It relates to the investigations which are being conducted at the Australian National University and which are being funded by the Department of Education. The investigations are into the problems associated with unemployment amongst disadvantaged people, especially migrants. Can the Minister say whether the ethnic minorities in Tasmania are included in these studies and when the results will be available? 

 -Mr Deputy President, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. Last night in the adjournment debate in this chamber,  Senator Tate  spoke about the activities of the Industrial Relations Bureau in Tasmania. During the course of his speech he commented that he had written to all Tasmanian members and senators asking them to support him in obtaining the withdrawal of the Bureau from Tasmania. He went on to name those Government members and senators who had not replied and in doing so included me amongst those who had replied. He assured the Senate that those members who had replied had taken the line that the whole matter was due to intemperate actions by one officer of the Bureau.  Senator Tate  indicated that he regarded that as a most cowardly act against a public servant who is unable to reply. Intemperate action by an officer of the Industrial Relations Bureau must be violent action, unbridled action or, at the very best, immoderate action.  Senator Tate's  allegation is completely unfounded. I am very disappointed that he is prepared to stoop so low as to attempt to gain political mileage at the expense of reporting truthfully to the Senate. In fact, he has misled the Senate. I shall read from the reply which I sent to  Senator Tate.  It states: 
Dear  Senator, 
Thank you for you letter  of 20th  April. 
I fully endorse the Government's legislation in setting up the Industrial Relations Bureau and have high hopes for its success in assisting both union members and employers in the area of industrial relations. 
One docs nol usually abandon a good concept because of an error- 
It was an error, not intemperate action- on the part of one of its staff, as was the case in this instance. 
As you would bc aware the bureau was set up to protect the rights of the individual against the powerful organisations of cither unions or industry. 
As I feci sure you yourself would surely support this concept I feel your opposition is a political one rather than a sincere personal opposition. 
As can be seen, I did not denigrate the Public Service officer, as  Senator Tate  claimed I did. I am now more convinced than ever that  Senator Tate  was trying to gain political mileage rather than to raise a personal objection. 
-Has the Minister for Education seen the Press report that the Australian Union of Students has launched a national appeal for part time work for students? Does the Minister agree that this initiative should be widely supported by business and industry throughout Australia? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for the Capital Territory. Will the Minister assess the need for the introduction in the Australian Capital Territory of a compulsory course of defensive driving for all prospective licence applicants and, if it is considered necessary, set aside an appropriate amount to evaluate the success of the scheme in the first three years following its introduction? 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee C on the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1978-79, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I present the following petition from 212 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-Is the Minister for Social Security aware of criticism by the  President  of the Australian College of Paediatrics that the Government's disbanding of the Children's Commission has resulted in a breakdown of communication between professional workers in the field of early childhood services and the Federal Department of Social Security'? Will the Minister refute the allegations that valuable information identifying warning signs of possible child abuse has failed to reach the welfare agencies because the co-ordination which used to operate through the Children's Commission is no longer in existence? 
-by leave-I table additional information received by Estimates Committee C and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Will the Minister confer with the Treasurer in an effort to permit those persons who wish to insulate their homes against the rigours of the winter to receive tax deductions for the cost of that installation? This would encourage Australians living in the colder areas of our country to save energy which otherwise would be wasted in heating houses which are not insulated. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations aware of the situation which has arisen at the Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Co. Pty Ltd plant at Bell Bay which has resulted in three members of the Federated Ironworkers Association being fined by their union because they failed to take part in a strike? What action has been taken or could be taken by the Industrial 
Relations Bureau to protect the rights of those union members who have refused to strike? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. At a recent meeting of the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs in Geneva a resolution called upon countries importing licit opiates to support the traditional supply countries. There is no doubt that the intention of that motion was to exclude Australia and therefore Tasmania. I ask that the Minister for Health request a meeting with both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to discuss that motion specifically in relation to its implication for the Tasmanian oil poppy industry. I further ask that the Minister should have regard to the crucial fact that the oil poppy industry is worth $ 11.5m annually to Tasmania and therefore negotiations with those importing countries are imperative to maintain this valuable industry. 
-My question, which has four parts, is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Firstly, how many individual children are catered for at the Australian National University staff child care centre? Secondly, what was the total amount for staff salaries at the centre for 1977-78 and the total running costs for 1977-78? Thirdly, what is the total of individual direct and indirect subsidies- such things as rent forgone, and payment for telephone, electricity, heating and such facilities? Fourthly, what payment is made by the parents for this service? 
I support the motion before the Senate today. However, I believe that  Senator Coleman  has moved the motion to discuss a matter of urgency quite unnecessarily. The Government has already clearly indicated its support of women's shelters in Australia. Senators Coleman and Melzer introduced an overtone of fearmongering into the debate today. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has already appealed to the Australian people to ignore fear-mongering. An attempt has been made to convince the people who administer shelters that not only might their funds be reduced but that they might be stopped altogether.  Senator Melzer  made the extraordinary comment that the Minister had said that the Government does not have the money to fund women's shelters. The Minister did not say that at any stage. If honourable senators refer to  Hansard  tomorrow they will find that the Minister did not say that, although  Senator Melzer  assured the chamber that she did. 
Let us look at the Government's funding of women's shelters. The Minister said that shelters were first funded in 1974. Nineteen shelters were set up at the end of 1975 and Government funding amounted to $59,000. The Government has underlined its support for shelters because there are now 84 shelters which represent a considerable increase. 
These shelters are being funded by the Commonwealth Government. 
Senators Coleman and Melzer say that there are still not enough shelters. But at least in that time the number of shelters has increased from 19 to 84. 
-The need is certainly there. I could not agree more with  Senator Melzer. Senator Coleman  has already stated that the general administration of these shelters is in the hands of the States. The Minister also commented that the Commonwealth Government views shelters as a very special part of the community health program. We have not reduced the Commonwealth's share of funding of women's refuges as has been done in other health programs to the 50-50 share basis on both capital and operating costs. These shelters have been singled out as being very special. The Commonwealth funds 50 per cent of the capital requirements of the shelters and 75 per cent of their operating costs. I am sure that the Senate will be well aware that the operating costs are by far the largest area of expenditure of the shelters. At the moment the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  are discussing the provision of seven new shelters. I feel that the debate today has been initiated in an attempt to cause concern for the people administering the shelters and that this is completely wrong. This Government has recognised the necessity for shelters. Government funding has increased to the extent that in the 1978-79 Budget nearly $3m was allocated for these shelters. Those people who are administering the shelters should be well satisfied that the Government is now showing some concern for them. 
The work of these shelters is not just to take in people and look after them during the period of immediate crisis. If  Senator Coleman  is very concerned for the children in these situations, I think she needs to know what went on at the Hobart refuge. I am not referring to the 'Tasmanian refuge'. I am referring to the Hobart refuge in which I have shown an interest. The situation in respect of the Hobart refuge on which  Senator Coleman  commented today is rather unfortunate. Considerable concern has been shown, not only by the Federal members of Parliament and the people of Hobart, but also by the State Government in Tasmania. After various investigations were conducted into the Hobart shelter, the State Minister eventually ordered that child social welfare workers should from time to time enter that shelter and keep an eye on it. This was considered necessary as a result of the Minister's investigation. It was entirely in response to his concern for the children in that shelter that the State Minister for Health made this order. 
As I have said shelters are involved in caring for children while the parent is at the shelter and there is a tremendous amount of follow-up work. I believe that, apart from the initial care that is given, the follow-up work is perhaps the most important part of all. The follow-up work entails obtaining information about the welfare benefits which it is the right of these women to receive. Many women do not know that welfare agencies exist. They can be informed of them by those people who run the shelters. Information is also given concerning legal aid rights and financial support to which they are entitled in respect of custody and property matters of which they may not be aware. The women who run the shelters accompany their clients to lawyers and doctors and generate a tremendous amount of support after the initial crisis in the follow-up period. All this is of great assistance as the figures show that the majority of women return to their home environment after the initial crisis. 
-There are other places for them to go. Most of the shelters, and particularly the ones that I know of in Tasmania, have half-way houses and other forms of housing to which these women can go. We have entered another area in Tasmania which I believe to be crucial- that of alcoholic women.  (Quorum formed). 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was talking about special shelters for alcoholic women. Recently in my State Caroline House was established as a centre for alcoholic women in crisis. The other shelters cannot take alcoholic women because they do not have sufficient area in which to set them aside from the other women and assist them with their particular problems. I have nothing more to say. I simply move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
I present the following petition from 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct to the Minister for Social Security a question which relates to her responsibility in her capacity as Minister in charge of the Office of Child Care. Can the Minister say whether it is a fact that Australia does not keep statistics on child abuse. If it is a fact, can the Minister say what basis is used for conducting existing programs for children at risk in that area? 
Perhaps I can throw some light on this situation. Perhaps we can look at the performance in the ranks of the Opposition compared with the performance in the ranks of the Government. This may throw some light on the reason why the Opposition believes that there should be so much intrigue on this side of the chamber. From a distance, we have watched the intrigue going on between the Right and the Left in the ranks of the Opposition. The intrigue is evidenced when honourable senators opposite come into this place. We watch them bowing and scraping to the Left- walking that tightrope. One day they are fairly moderate and the next day they are bowing to the Left in their questions and speeches in this place. 
-On this side of the chamber we do not have a right wing and a left wing on our Party. We have unity. It is something that Opposition senators do not understand at all. They do not understand the meaning of the word 'unity'. They do not understand the meaning of the word 'loyal '. They cannot imagine how the National Country Party senators can sit on this side of the chamber with Liberal Party senators. They cannot understand the meaning of the word 'loyalty ' whatsoever. 
On this side of the chamber we have two parties. We have the National Country Party and the Liberal Party. We are content to sit on this side of the Chamber in complete unity and with complete loyalty. It is quite beyond the imagination of Opposition senators that Liberal Party senators will stand up in this place and talk on behalf of National Country Party Ministers. It is beyond their imagination. They could not presume to think that they could live in peace with the Left and the Right. When the Honourable Frank Steward died we had a most extraordinary occurrence in this Senate. I met that man very briefly. He was an incredibly nice man. I knew him briefly when we were both on the Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act. I believe that he was one of the nicest people I had met in this Parliament. We had the extraordinary position of honourable senators opposite saying: We disagreed with his politics, but all the same he was a very nice person'. You will never hear those sorts of statements from this side of the chamber. 
On this side of the chamber there is unity and loyalty which could never be found on the other side. No wonder Opposition senators think that this matter is one of intrigue. That is all that they have been born and bred on. They do not know anything else. This perhaps throws some light on the reason why they think that one Minister is being sacrificed and the other is not. I am quite sure that people reading today's  Hansard,  if they bother to read further than the commencement of this debate, would not imagine that the Opposition is so divided within its ranks that it believes that the natural thing in politics is that there must be intrigue behind every statement. The fact that a Minister stands up here and apologises for a mistake and a Minister in another place has said: I am sorry. Because of a slight hearing difficulty, I misheard the question, ' is quite completely beyond the imagination of the Opposition. Honourable senators opposite cannot believe that it could be a simple mistake. They believe there must be intrigue, because that is what they live and breath, and are bred on. I am ashamed that we have in this chamber the sort of debate we have just seen in this place. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory consider introducing into the Australian Capital Territory legislation similar to that implemented in Victoria to detect those who drink and drive? I believe that this is particularly important following the proven success of the Victorian legislation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. In view of the fact that the report of the Williams Committee on Education, Training and Employment is likely to be widely used for reference for some years to come, will the Minister consider directing that an index be prepared and published to accompany the three existing volumes of the report? 
Following  Senator Melzer  is quite an experience. (Quorum formed). I do not think I will dignify the speech of  Senator Melzer  by debating it, or attempting to deal with each of the untruths in it. We have been told that the taxpayers paid for the minerals, the proceeds from the mining of which have been sent out of Australia; that the Government does nothing but make the rich richer and the poor poorer; and that people will have to pay at least $12 a week for their health insurance and so on. 
The truth of the matter is that at the moment a single person pays $ 1 a week and a family $2 a week for cover of 75 per cent of the schedule fee and free public hospital service. Yet  Senator Melzer  told us that the cost of that will be up to $12. 1 sincerely hope that the people of Australia will remember that figure and will later do a little checking. During the last two speeches from the Opposition, those of  Senator Button  and  Senator Melzer,  we heard of nothing but broken promises. Anyone would think that the Australian Labor Party had never broken a promise. Let us examine a few of the promises that it made to Tasmania alone. The former Labor Government promised to provide an Antarctic base. Of course, it did not. It also said that it would give Tasmania freight assistance. It did not. 
Of course, the succeeding Liberal-National Country Party Government kept both promises. We did get the Antarctic base. It is under construction at the moment. Moreover, our freight equalisation system is the envy of every other State. We were also told by the former Labor Government that it would close all of the tax avoidance loopholes. It did a pretty good job of that- it did not even touch them. 
The basic promise that this Government made to every Australian when it came to office was that it would remedy the tremendous shemozzle into which the Australian Labor Party had got the economy. We are in the process of doing that. We have more than halved inflation. We have brought inflation to less than half of what it was when we came to office, and we are continuing to fulfil that promise. If, along the way, we have made promises about the surcharge and these have to be abandoned in order to maintain our original and most important promise, I am quite willing to back the Government in so doing. After the presentation of the min-Budget, when all of the shouting and screaming about broken promises had died down, an editorial in the  Australian Financial Review  said: 
At lust the Budget we were promised. This is the first honest Budget the Fraser Government has brought down. 
That publication acknowledged that the miniBudget was necessary. The  Australian  described it as: 
Getting Australia out of the red. 
It too recognised that ours is a responsible government; that it is at least endeavouring to get Australia out of the red. The news of the mini-Budget found its way to England and on the following Wednesday the sharemarket went up. For industrial stocks the number of rises was double that of falls. For oil stocks the number of rises was double that of falls. The same was true for mining stocks also. The confidence that has been aroused overseas is understandable. The Fraser Government is seen as a responsible Government which is sticking to its original, most important commitment to the Australian people- to right the economy. That is where its main impetus is directed. These people realise that a responsible approach is necessary. We have heard from the Opposition nothing about curtailing spending. We have heard only requests for more, more and more still. We heard  Senator Melzer  say today that more should be spent here, and given out there. There was no suggestion that a few cuts might also be made. Australia is in debt to the extent of $3, 500m, which is not as much as the former Labor Government had the country in debt. 
-This country is in debt, in deficit. I do not think that  Senator Walsh  would know the meaning of the word. To hand over to our children a country with such a deficit as that would be completely irresponsible. It must be paid off and it is time the community realises that fact. Not only has the taxation surcharge had to be kept on. In the next Budget the Government will impose cuts in spending, cuts that I am quite sure will produce screams from the supporters of the Australian Labor Party. 
Let is examine what the former Labor Government did in regard to taxation over the three years it was in office. In 1971-72 Australians paid $3, 764m in income tax. In the following year, which was the first full financial year of the Labor Government, the figure had leapt to $5,485m. In the next year, which was the year of the Hayden horror Budget, it leapt to $9,2 12m. Thus, in two years, it leapt from $3,764m to $9,2 12m. If the present Government had not been elected the figure would have continued to multiply in that fashion. As it was, this Government took certain action. That action relieved 200,000 pensioners of the necessity to pay tax.  Senator Melzer  said that this Government was only on about making the rich richer and the poor poorer but, in fact, it altered the taxation scales so that 200,000 pensioners could be relieved in that way. In point of fact, $3,000m less was gathered in taxation than would have been gathered if the schedule drawn up by the former Labor Government had been followed. 
Yes.  Senator Button  said that perhaps people could phone my office and I could explain to them the cuts that have been made. That would be a very good idea. I could explain to those 200,000 pensioners that, purely because of the action taken by our Government subsequent to the presentation of the Hayden horror Budget, they no longer had to pay taxation. I could also explain that $3,000m more than has been gathered by this Government would have been collected by a Labor government. At present a person receiving average weekly earnings pays $9 less a week than he would have paid under the Hayden Budget. Let us look at indexation. The Labor Government set up the Mathews Committee of Inquiry into Inflation and Taxation. The Mathews Committee brought down a recommendation that indexation ought to be implemented. But the Labor Government decided to ignore that recommendation. Why should it have implemented it? Look at all the lovely money it was getting! As I have said, its revenue from taxation increased from $3, 764m to $9,2 12m, so why should it have bothered to implement that recommendation of the Mathews Committee? 
It would be a good idea to remind the Australian people of just what taxation was imposed in the last year of office of the Labor Government. There was a seven-step scale. The rate of taxation was 20c in the dollar for incomes up to $2,000 per annum; 27c in the dollar for incomes from $2,000 to $5,000; 35c in the dollar for incomes from $5,000 to $10,000; 45c in the dollar for incomes from $10,000 to $15,000; 55c in the dollar for incomes from $15,000 to $20,000; 60c in the dollar for incomes from $20,000 to $25,000; and 65c in the dollar for incomes over $25,000. That is a considerable amount. In the last year of office of the Labor Government the dependent spouse's rebate was only $400. It is now $597. The general rebate was $540. It went up to $6 1 0 the following year. 
Having seen just how horrendous the taxation was under the Hayden Budget, let us look at what indexation has achieved. On 1 July 1976 this Government brought in full indexation at the rate of 13 per cent. The introduction of full indexation took the dependent spouse's rebate from $400 to $500.  (Quorum formed).  The Australian Taxpayers Association says that this Government has not made enough of tax indexation. We have not been given credit for the benefit that tax indexation has given to the community. I shall explain that. 
On 1 July 1976 full indexation was introduced at 13 per cent. That brought the dependent spouse's rebate from $400 to $500, which was an increase of $100. The general rebate rose from $540 to $610. The single threshold went from $2,519 to $2,846. The threshold for a married man with a dependent spouse rose from $4,000 to $4,698. Full indexation also altered the tax levels. The lowest level rose from $2,000 under the Labor Government to a minimum of $2,260. Comparable alterations took place in the other levels. The maximum rate of 65c in the dollar was applied to a salary of $28,250 instead of $25,000. On 1 July 1977 full indexation was again implemented. At that time the rate was 10.9 per cent. The dependent spouse's rebate rose by $ 1 55 to $555. The general rebate rose to $676, the single tax theshold rose to $3,153 and the threshold for a married man with a dependent spouse rose to $5,209. The tax levels also went up. The original $2,000 rose to $2,506. The final level in that seven-step scale was no longer $25,000 but $3 1,329. 
On 1 February 1978 a much simpler method of taxation was introduced. We changed from a seven-step system to a three-step system. The three-step system enabled the single threshold to rise to $3,750. Taxation was charged at 32c in the dollar for salaries from $3,750 to $16,000 per annum. A man who was previously taxed at 35c in the dollar for a salary up to $12,532 per annum was able to increase his earnings to $ 1 6,000 before having to pay tax at a higher rate than 32c in the dollar. The rate of 45c in the dollar was paid for salaries from $ 1 6,000 to $32,000 and the rate was 60c in the dollar for a salary of $32,000 or more. 1 think that has proved above all else that this Government has been responsible about its taxation. We have simplified taxation. We applied tax indexation at a full rate for two years. On 1 July 1978 we applied half indexation. The tax rates were indexed at half the indexation at 3.8 per cent. However, the dependent spouse's rebate received a full rebate of 7.6 per cent. It rose further to $597, which is the present rebate. The single threshold became $3,893 and the threshold for a married man with a dependent spouse rose to $5,758. They are a far cry from the original thresholds under the Labor Government of $4,000 and $2,519 respectively. 
If tax indexation had not been brought in this Government would have been deluged with money. We would have had more money to spend, as the Labor Government had with its great increases. But no responsibility was taken by that Government. There was tremendous unemployment. It caused unemployment even though it had all the money in the world. It caused unemployment with its irresponsible action of making across-the-board tariff cuts even though the advice it received at that time was that that would cause tremendous unemployment. The Labor Government's comment was: 'It does not matter. We have full employment at the moment. We have overemployment'. They are the words used by a Minister of the day. He said: 'We have overemployment'. By introducing across-the-board tariff cuts the Labor Government started the tremendous decline in employment opportunities that has resulted in the unemployment figures we have at the moment. It gives me great pleasure to support the Bill. 
-The aim of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill 1979 is to introduce greater efficiency into the Public Service. The Bill was originally introduced late in 1 976. It lay on the table until the Parliament was dissolved in 1977, and it then lapsed. During that time that the Bill lay on the table there were very detailed discussions with the peak councils. As a result of those discussions significant amendments were introduced to this legislation. It is not in its original form; significant amendments have been made as a direct result of those consultations of which  Senator Button  was so critical when referring to that letter which  Mr Fraser  wrote to  Mr Gradwell  in 1977. According to  Senator Button, Mr Fraser  said that the Government had an express desire to avoid retrenchment- a desire which I believe is still written into this Bill.  Senator Button  also commented on  Mr Fraser's  stressing the importance of consultations with the peak councils. Those consultations have taken place and will continue to take place, as is laid down in the legislation. The Bill makes provisions for redeployment and management initiated retirement in certain circumstances. 
The Bill requires Permanent Heads of departments, not the Ministers of departments, to identify three different areas. The first area is over-staffing. The second area involves the situation where through invalidity a man can no longer efficiently carry out his duties. The other area is 'for other reasons'. This is the area where the Opposition seems to have its greatest concern. Of the three areas, the Opposition seems to have read all sorts of weird and wonderful connotations into that latter one. But let us start with the first of them. Where areas of over-staffing are identified, the Public Service Board is expected to attempt to redeploy people. As a matter of fact, it has also been written into the Bill that retraining should be undertaken in this area. In the course of carrying out the responsibility of retraining or redeployment the Board may have to apply certain principles. An example of that is that in the interests of overall efficiency certain types of jobs should be filled by the best person available or that certain jobs should be reported as not being suitable for redeployment because it is known that there is a potential redundancy in that area. I think that they are very reasonable responsibilities that the Board should be seen to carry out. 
I now refer to the area of invalidity. If invalidity renders an employee incapable of carrying out his job, he should then be redeployed or perhaps retrained for another job in another area. Surely there is no complaint from the Opposition in regard to those two areas. So, we come to the 'for other reasons' area. These other reasons about which  Senator Button  was so concerned could vary considerably. However, they must be specifically prescribed in the regulations. These reasons are to be prescribed only following consultation with the employee unions. Before the regulations are made the four peak councils are to be consulted. Following those consultations the regulations will prescribe the exact reasons. It is expected that the reasons will include such things as loss of qualifications, such as loss of licence, or inefficiency.  (Quorum formed).  I was referring to the type of circumstance that this 'for any other reason' might cover. For instance, it could be loss of qualifications such as licences. That sort of thing would be expected. Also, it could be just plain inefficiency because a person could no longer cope with the job he was doing. These are the types of things which are expected to be put into the regulations. But as I say, that will only be done after full consultation with the four peak employee councils. It is only if the Public Service Board cannot redeploy or find alternative jobs for these employees that the permanent head can then initiate retirement, along with compensation in certain cases. 
There is a right of appeal and it has been played down considerably by  Senator Button.  There is a right of appeal to a tribunal in three areas, which are: Being identified as excess staff; the type of job to which the person is redeployed; and proposed retirement action. All of those three areas can be appealed against. I think it is very important that we should know who the tribunal comprises. The tribunal will comprise an independent  chairman  appointed by the Governor-General, nominees of the decision making authorities and nominees to represent the employees on the basis of discussions with the representatives of the peak councils. It is envisaged that the tribunal members will be nominated jointly by all the peak councils. As  Senator Button  said, also included in this Bill are provisions for a decrease in the minimum age for voluntary retirement. This has been decreased from 60 to 55 years. I understand that the Opposition is in full agreement with this particular clause. Clause 22 of the Bill enables employees to be employed for the maximum period of time over the retiring age of 65 years where it is in the best interests of the Commonwealth and where the employee himself or herself so desires. 
The only further area on which I will touch is compensation. The Bill provides compensation for those people compulsorily retired, that is between the ages of 55 and 60, and those retired for any other reason. The Bill provides for two months salary for each year forgone between 55 and 60 years, with a maximum payment of 10 months. The Bill enables lump sums to be converted to a form of pension under the Superannuation Act, and entitlements from superannuation are added to this. I believe it is a very generous deal, and far exceeds most other terms of employment outside the Commonwealth Government service. It is with confidence that I support the Bill before the Senate. 
We have heard a lot of emotive criticism of the two Bills before the chamber. The Minister for Health in my own State of Tasmania has made outlandish statements such as: At least 500 jobs will go by the board; we are going to have massive cuts in the number of hospital beds; hospitals will be closed; and Tasmania will have to do without $9m as a result of the Government's freezing hospital costs to the States. These are most incredible statements. Perhaps if I refer to some figures I will be able to allay people's fears regarding these emotive statements. Let us look at the annual report of the Director-General of 
Health which was compiled by the various States. The report shows the number of available beds per 1,000 population. I will not mention all the States but I will pick out for comment Victoria, Tasmania and South Australia. The available beds per 1,000 population in Victoria are 3.76 compared with the Tasmanian figure of 5.47. So Tasmania has nearly double the number of beds per 1,000 population as Victoria. 
We have nearly double the number of beds,  Senator Cavanagh. 
I refer to further figures related to staff per occupied bed. We have more staff per occupied bed in Tasmania. No doubt  Senator Cavanagh  would say that that is accounted for by the fact that we are a healthier population. Our daily net operating costs in Tasmania are $145.31. In Victoria they are $130.14. The bed occupancy rate is an extremely interesting figure. At any one time we have only 57. 1 per cent of our beds occupied whereas Victoria has 74.9 per cent of its beds occupied. As honourable senators can see we have more beds, we have more staff, the beds cost more, yet we have fewer beds occupied per head of population. Yet the surveys prove that the health of Victorians is certainly no worse than the health of Tasmanians. I want to back the Minister for Health in his request for an investigation.  Senator Ryan  referred to a royal commission. Well, she is not quite up to date. No longer is it to be a royal commission because some of the States did not agree. So, it is to be an investigation. 
-Mr Barnard has objected to even an investigation, as have other States. They are objecting to an investigation into the running of hospitals. We have just heard from  Senator Ryan  that the Labor Party says that there should not be another investigation into hospitals. If we look at what turned up in the Auditor-General's report in South Australia just recently, perhaps the Opposition may change its mind. The cost per hospital bed in South Australia is $ 1 33.6 1 which is far less than the cost in Tasmania. The South Australian occupancy rate is far higher than Tasmania's occupancy rate. South Australia's occupancy rate is nearly 68 per cent- 67.9 per cent- yet the AuditorGeneral found that in that State there was poor financial management in the hospitals and that there was a need for upgrading. In South Australia the staffing had increased even though the patient numbers had dropped, but in Tasmania we have the same number of staff per bed and yet our occupancy rate is 57 per cent, while South Australia's is nearly 68 per cent. Imagine what an investigation would find in Tasmania. 
It was also found that there was large scale food pilfering from hospitals and the associated cost to the taxpayer was enormous. But the Opposition has said: 'Do not let us investigate the position. Let us just shut our eyes'. This is what South Australia is finding. But the Labor Party and  Senator Ryan  have said: 'Do not let us have an investigation. It will be only a waste of money'. Also there was a failure by management to institute cost saving recommendations, which would run into millions of dollars. But the Labor Party has said: 'Do not let us investigate the matter. Let it continue. After all, if we do investigate, we might find things going on in the States that we would not like to look at'.  Senator Ryan  has blandly said that families will pay $ 12 a week for their health care. If she had any compassion at all she would not have said that. It may suit her politically to make those statements, but to blandly say that families will have to pay $12 a week for their health care shows that she has no human compassion at all. She worries the people outside. As I say, it may help her politically but it is not humane to do so. 
Let me deal with the disadvantaged and the pensioners, about whom we have heard so much criticism from the Opposition. I refer to the three months November and December 1978 and January 1979. Nearly 4.5 million bulk billed services have been rendered for pensioners and disadvantaged people in that time. So, over a year that would be 18 million services rendered in that area alone. Obviously, that area of health care is working. The pensioners and the disadvantaged are being treated and are being bulk billed. Those figures prove it. But let us refer to the families whom  Senator Ryan  said will have to pay $12 a week for health care. That statement is a distortion and, as I have said, it is one that shows no compassion to the people outside who are wondering what is in this Bill. When debating in this place we should be truthful. What we say goes on record and the people have got to gather their knowledge from what we say. 
Let me simply explain the basic health care provisions. People who want to insure against their health care will receive 75 per cent of the medical schedule fee and they do not pay any more than $10. That is the maximum they would have to pay. At the moment a single person will pay $1 or $1.20 depending with which organisation he registers and a family will pay $2 or $2.20. That is the payment for the basic health table. Over that there is free hospitalisation. All public hospitals are completely free. So, a family which wishes to have the basic health care does not have to pay $12. It will have to pay more than the original figure suggested because, as we know, the amount will go up. But the family will pay about- we do not know the amount yet-$1.50 to $3.00 for health care. That amount will not take the contribution to anywhere within cooee of $ 12.  Senator Ryan  has deliberately tried to mislead the public. I do not think that does her any credit. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)- Senator Walters,  I think you might refrain - 
-May I speak to that point,  Mr Acting Deputy  President? I believe that  Senator Ryan  has deliberately misled the public in her statement that families will have to pay $12. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Walters, I think you are arguing a point of view which  Senator Ryan  has put. I think you might find other terms which would make your point. 
I will withdraw the remark, hoping that  Senator Ryan  will explain that she did not mean what she said, that it was a figment of my imagination and that she will be able to rectify my impression later. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I would not think that we had the time to get into an argument of this kind. I am sure that, with a little bit of understanding,  Senator Walters  could press her point with as much vigour by using other terms.  Senator Walters,  may I suggest that you find other terms in which to present your argument with equal force? 
-Yes. What  Senator Ryan  said certainly misled the Senate. I hope her remark does not mislead people outside. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Walters, you have used the phrase that  Senator Ryan  misled the Senate. I have gone along with this situation for a while in trying to find a solution. I must ask you to withdraw those words without reservation. 
I withdraw the words deliberately misled '. I still maintain that  Senator Ryan  has misled Government senators. I have withdrawn the words 'deliberately misled', but I have substituted the words 'misled Government senators'. I would like to touch on two other areas. One relates to the isolated patients travel and accommodation assistance. It has been extended to off-shore islands which particularly helps my State of Tasmania. There have been occasions, although not many, where specialist treatment has not been available in Tasmania. At great expense patients have had to travel interstate. Of course, this expense will now be overcome by what I believe is a very generous provision that the Government has brought down. Up to now a 14-year-old patient has been able to have someone go along with him but that age limit has been extended to 17 years. The extension of eligibility for domiciliary nursing care benefit is of great joy to me and is the second area. The age limit has been reduced from 65 years to 16 years. This is a great credit to the Government. It wishes to allow people to look after patients in their own home. 
I will leave my colleague,  Senator Baume,  to deal with nursing home patients as time is fairly short this evening. I am sure that he will deal with that. The only thing left for me to say is that costs of health care are going up in leaps and bounds. It has been recognised by the community as a whole, and certainly by both State and Commonwealth governments, that this cannot go on; that the Federal Government must do something about it. I would like it to refer to the three big spending areas- health, education and welfare. We could introduce the most expensive and the best health care, with all the technology that is available. We could have it for every single Australian. We could bring in the best education. We could have a pupil-teacher ratio which would be an example to the rest of the world. We could bring in the best teaching facilities, the best buildings, the best hospitals, the best technology and the best welfare of any country in the world. But are the people prepared to pay for it? At what cost could we bring this in? 
I think  Senator Mulvihill  would agree with me that in the recent debate on the tax surcharge, the Opposition spent the whole night berating the Government for not taking the surcharge off. The Australian people wanted us to do that. Many of them- I believe by far the majority of them who are thinking and responsible Australians- realised that because of all the money the Government is handing out at the moment it could not possibly take that surcharge off. But if the Government introduced the best health care system available- with the best technology- the best education system and the best social welfare system, our taxes would go up tremendously. The Australian people have said, and the Opposition has said, that they do not want that. The Government has interpreted the attitude of the Australian people to be that they do not want high taxation. The Government is being forced into the position of having to rationalise and make cuts in health care costs. 

 Mr Barnard made an extraordinary statement which, I believe, indicates something about  Mr Barnard.  He was being very critical of the Commonwealth's freezing of hospital costs. In the  Mercury  of 26 May,  Mr Barnard  is reported as follows: 
If there is no way the Commonwealth can be persuaded to change its mind, then it is inevitable in this State and every other State that there will have to be some rationalisation in the services we provide. ' 
I do not know whether  Mr Barnard  has a clue as to what the word 'rationalisation' means - 
-They are both Labor. This  Mr Barnard  is the Minister for Health in my State. If he does not know what the word 'rationalisation ' means perhaps he can be forgiven for making that statement. But if he does know what the word 'rationalisation' means, he has made a statement with which I concur completely. Rationalisation means the more efficient use of the moneys available, and with that I would certainly agree. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs say whether the Commonwealth grant to the State of Tasmania, through the Council for the Arts, is meant primarily to assist local arts, or is meant to assist arts companies in other States. I ask this because the Tasmanian Minister for Education, Recreation and the Arts,  Mr Holgate,  while making a grant to the Tasmanian Ballet Company of $35,000, has also made a grant to the New South Wales Dance Company, which is about to tour our State in competition with the Tasmanian Ballet Company. I might add that the New South Wales Dance Company is funded by its own State to the tune of $300,000, compared with the $35,000 that the Tasmanian Ballet Company is given, and that, as a result of its large budget, the New South Wales Dance Company's advertising far outstrips that of the Tasmanian Ballet Company, to the latter's disadvantage. 
My question is to the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs. Does the Australian Film and Television School have funds available to assist independent individual film makers to gain further experience through secondment to large scale film producers? 
I present the following petition from 60 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs say whether it is a fact that two valuation certificates are necessary before donations by the public to galleries of works of art are eligible for tax deductions. If it is a fact, can the Minister indicate what steps can be taken to avoid confusion which may result from two widely different valuation certificates? 
This debate just amazes me.  Senator Chipp  has come up with the figure of two million users. I gather he means occasional users. 
I see.  Senator Button  has said 400,000 - 
Would  Senator Chipp  let me finish.  Senator Button  said 400,000 - 
-Senator Button said that. 
I heard  Senator Button  also give a figure of 400,000, but we can read the  Hansard  record tomorrow and perhaps  Senator Chipp  will apologise then.  Senator Button  said there were 400,000 users. So the figures given tonight really do express just how much we know in this country- not just in this chamber but in this country- about the number of people using cannabis. We do not know the number. We have not any figures.  Senator Chipp  as well as  Senator Button  are just guessing.  Senator Button  went on to talk about - 
I would be guessing too if I bothered to come up with a figure. 
-No, I do not believe in guessing. As  Senator Button  said, I was a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare and we did not believe in guessing. We did point out that the figures are not known, that not enough research has been done and that the figures are not available. But there is one area which both  Senator Button  and  Senator Chipp  both failed to mention when talking about the importation of cannabis. As  Senator Chipp  said, the majority of cannabis used in this country is grown in Australia. However, let us look at some of the strengths of cannabis measured in terms of the, which is the relevant part of cannabis. The the strength of the normal cannabis grown in this country is possibly between 0.2 and 1.0 the. But the imported cannabis, the Buddha grass or Thai sticks from the United States of America, has a the content of between 4 to 14 per cent. That is a long cry from the strength of the cannabis grown in. this country. So if we are talking about the importation of cannabis we are not just talking about the strength of the cannabis grown in this country; we are talking about a totally different type of cannabis. I think that factor has to be borne in mind when we talk about the amendment which  Senator Button  moved tonight. 
-Can the Minister representing the Treasurer say whether aids used by the handicapped that are not yet exempt from sales tax will from now on be exempt from this tax in line with the Budget announcement on aids used by the blind and deaf? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and relates to the decision that was taken at the conference of the Australian Labor Party in Adelaide that Labor would seek an amendment to the Constitution to provide for its alteration by a simple majority of the whole of the Australian population without regard to the different views of the States. Can he say what effect the decision would have on the small States? 
-As usual, the Senate has heard from  Senator Grimes  forecasts of doom and destruction. He has told honourable senators that people will not be able to pay for their pharmaceutical prescriptions and that a tremendous number of people will be disadvantaged by the price increase. Yet he said that the increase was just a little more than in line with inflation. I think  Senator Grimes  must be tired. Perhaps he ought to be asked to have a bit of a rest, because in the early part of his speech he made a slip with his arithmetic. When he looks at his  Hansard  pinks he will find that he said that two prescriptions often result from one visit to a doctor. That is true. But he added the cost of each prescription to make a total of $5.75 instead of $5.50. He made a small slip but he has been pretty inaccurate all day. Perhaps his inaccuracies this morning could be described as gross slips. Honourable senators hope that when he reads those  Hansard  pinks he will have that matter corrected. We also hope that later, when he reads the evidence, he will apologise for his other slips. It is time that  Senator Grimes  had a rest. Possibly he is not able to take the pressure. The Opposition should make sure that he takes that rest. 
The Opposition has considerable trouble with its forecasts.  Mr President,  you may recall the debate on the Health Insurance Amendment Bill 1979 in June of this year.  Senator Ryan  made some forecasts about what health insurance costs were likely to be. I said that she was deliberately misleading the Senate. You,  Mr President,  asked me to withdraw that statement, which I eventually did. However, if one considers what she said and what has actually happened, one can see that in fact on that occasion she did mislead the Senate. On 7 June she made a forecast about the rise in health insurance fees. She is recorded in  Hansard  as having said: 
That will leave the less healthy, privately insured persons subsequently paying higher health insurance premiums. Medical and hospital insurance contributions could rise by up to $3 or $4 a week. That is the prediction of the Government. 
As I tried to say at the time, that was not the prediction of the Government. The Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  had said $1.50 to $2, not $3 or $4 as  Senator Ryan  said. She continued: 
I believe that the rise will be even greater. The Government has been wrong in all of its other estimates of contribution increases and we believe that it will be wrong in this one too. Families will face payments of up to $12 to $13 a week in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory . . . This is only the first rise. Doctor fees will be increased later in the year- up to IS per cent has been predicted- and medical contributions will have to rise again as a result. 
Many people will find that they just cannot afford to pay this much a week for health insurance. 
The honourable senator went on to say that the  Sydney Morning Herald  had stated similar things. It did so because it had been listening to the Opposition. Perhaps we should look at what those rises have been. The basic medical and hospital fund increase in Tasmania has been $1.67 in respect of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia and 70c in respect of Medibank. The cost of family health insurance has risen to $6.77 and $7.10. Where are rates of $12 and $13 to apply? 
She was not talking about the basic cover and you know it. 
-She was not talking about any particular levels. 
I am talking about the ordinary insurance that the average person takes out, which is for 75 per cent of the medical fee. 

 - Senator Grimes has just said that  Senator Ryan  was talking about the very highest level. 
I would be interested in knowing what  Senator Grimes  was implying. He said that  Senator Ryan  was not taking about the basic health and hospital table that the average person contributes to. If the honourable senator is not talking about that table, the only one he can be talking about is the very highest table. That is in the area of $ 1 1 .  Senator Ryan  was certainly not talking about that. She was talking about what most families will have to pay. If we look at those levels of insurance we will find that the contribution is not $12 to $13 a week. The contribution is $6.77 or $7.10 a week, depending on the fund, for family cover. That is roughly half the amount stated by  Senator Ryan.  On that occasion,  Senator Ryan,  I believe, misled the Senate. She made forecasts that were completely inaccurate and they have been proved so by the figures I have given today.  Senator Grimes, Senator Ryan  and  Senator Melzer  said in that debate also that the people will not be able to afford to cover themselves for health insurance, that they will have to be uninsured and that we will have quite a disaster amongst the lower income groups. 
Let us look at what people can do if they cannot afford to pay $6.77 a week, which, I believe, is a quite high amount. They can cover themselves with basic medical insurance. At the moment that cover costs between $2.68 and $2.92 for a family. The cover for a single person costs $1.34 or $1.46 a week. That gives a cover of 75 per cent of the schedule fee for doctors fees with a maximum patient contribution of $10. It also gives free hospital care in the public hospitals. It is absolute rubbish for  Senator Grimes, Senator Ryan  and  Senator Melzer-  it has been stated also in the other place by  Mr Hayden  and  Dr Klugman-  to say that patients would not be able to afford to insure themselves. For the small amount of $2.68 a week, people can have full cover for their families for hospital treatment and 75 per cent of the schedule fee for doctors fees. As I have said, the maximum payment is $ 10 for any single procedure. 
Earlier in the debate,  Senator Grimes  spoke about prescriptions. He spoke about many people being disadvantaged as a result of the increase in medical insurance charges. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has extended the eligibility for pensioner health benefit cards. The income test limit for a single pensioner has been incresed from $33 a week to $40 a week and for married pensioners from $57.50 a week to $68 a week. This extension will enable an additional 25,000 pensioners and an additional 5,000 dependants to be eligible. The extension of the eligibility for pensioner health benefit cards to sole parents will enable an additional 56,000 sole parents and 96,000 dependants to qualify. That is, an additional 182,000 people in Australia will be eligible for a pensioner health benefit card and to have prescriptions filled free of charge. Yet  Senator Grimes  is crying that this will extend hardship to many sole parents. 
When I pointed out these facts in the newspapers in Hobart I was taken to task by Michael Barnard, the Minister for Health in Tasmania. He applauded the extension of the eligibility for pensioner health benefit cards to some needy groups but said that the move would be offset by the 25c increase in prescription charges. I challenged this and said that he well knew that eligibility for the pensioner health benefit cards entitled pensioners to receive free prescriptions. He retorted by calling it 'a health blast for Walters'. He deliberately misled the people of Tasmania by making them feel that this Government had taken away with one hand while giving a bit with the other. He knows that that is untrue. Yet the statement appeared not just in one newspaper but in several. 
I pointed out also that there was a low table providing basic medical cover for those who could not afford higher health insurance. I have in my hand at the moment a statement on that from the Tasmanian Minister for Health. He stated that the tables offer insurance for basic public hospital accommodation and treatment which the Commonwealth and State governments provide. That is quite true. He went on to say that they offer cover for only 25 per cent of the schedule fee with a maximum patient outlay of $10. At first I thought that that was just a misprint in the statement. I was quite sure that the Minister should know that it is not 25 per cent but 75 per cent. However, going from one newspaper to another, I found that the figure of 25 per cent appeared in both. Obviously  Mr Barnard  had handed the statement to both newspapers.  Mr Barnard  is entirely wrong. 
Apart from the increase in pharmaceuticals, the Government has foreshadowed the establishment of an independent inquiry, with the powers of a royal commission, to investigate and report on the efficiency and administration of hospitals. I believe this is long overdue. In South Australia an investigation was carried out by the Public Accounts Committee. Its report on the financial management of South Australian hospitals was tabled on 28 February 1979. The report pointed out the problems South Australian hospitals were facing with regard to their administration. It stated that there was poor financial management in the hospitals and a need for upgrading; that staffing at the hospitals continued to increase even though patient numbers were declining. There was large-scale food pilfering from hospitals with an associated cost to the taxpayer. Management had failed to institute cost-saving recommendations, which ran into millions of dollars. The frozen food program had failed and there had been a breakdown of the fee-sharing arrangement at the Flinders Medical Centre. 
Those are the sorts of things that have come from an investigation into South Australian hospitals. If one looks at the cost of hospital beds in South Australia compared with those of some of the other States one begins to wonder what on earth is happening in the other States. Taking the daily gross operating costs of hospitals, in South Australia the cost is $162.06; in Victoria it is $164.82; the New South Wales cost is more reasonable at $141.74; Queensland is the lowest at $125.97; Western Australia is $172.17; and Tasmania is $168.75. South Australia has the third lowest cost, yet it has those areas of poor management that were pointed out. I am hopeful that out of this investigation will come a certain degree of competitiveness amongst administrators. If the investigation points out, for example, that New South Wales runs its hospitals more efficiently than other States do and can cope with the cutting of costs and waste, or that Queensland is more efficient, then I hope that the administrators in other hospitals will compete and see whether they can contain their costs. Until they see a need to contain their costs we have little hope of getting anywhere in that area. There is little else I would like to say. I believe that in this Parliament we need more honesty from the Opposition when it is criticising - 
I have no qualms or worries about criticism. I think it is a very good thing. It needs to be constructive.  (Quorum formed).  I was saying, I believe that there is a need for more honesty from the Opposition when it is criticising Government policy. I am not concerned about criticism as long as it is honest, but the fact is that people such as  Senator Ryan  make statements that have been proved to be completely inaccurate. She has little care for the concern that might be expressed in the community outside at the extravagant forecasts that she and  Mr Hayden  and  Dr Klugman  have made. There is little concern among members of the Opposition, who just seem to pull figures out of the air. As long as it is to their own political advantage, that is all that worries them. That is abhorrent to me, and it is no wonder that the reputation of Opposition members in this place is so low. 
Can the Minister for Education inform the Senate whether any Commonwealth money has been used in the production of the resources folder  Equal Chance?  The folder is published by the curriculum centre of the Tasmanian Education Department. 
1 ask the Leader of the Government whether he has seen reports in this morning's Press on the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress.  Mr Jack  Marks, who is the assistant secretary of the Western Australian branch of the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union, and who is also junior vicepresident of that State's Trades and Labor Council, referred to a visit to the Middle East by the Western Australian Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, during the national controversy over charges against unionists.  Mr Marks  was quoted as saying: 
If ever the PLO failed it was then. There were 15 holes for Court to plant trees in and there was not one land mine. 
Does the Minister consider that statement to be an incitement to violence? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the Budget announcement of an allocation of $2.4m over the next three years for the training of interpreters and translators to work in the health services for migrants and Aboriginals. Can the Minister give details of these proposed training schemes? Are these schemes to be a Federal or State responsibility? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government. Has the Minister seen the text of the Tasmanian State Labor Budget? Is it a fact that the Tasmanian Treasurer has reduced land tax and death duties in my State? Does this action equate with the Tasmanian Premier's cry of 'poor' and the recent excuse for an early election held on the pretext of a shabby deal from the Federal Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the priorities used by those in control of the children-in-institutions fund? Is it a fact that the first priority is to wards of the State living in institutions rather than to double orphans who also live in institutions? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I believe that the Auditor-General has not yet audited the 1977-78 annual report of the Medibank Private health insurance fund. This is the only health insurance fund with an outstanding unaudited annual report for 1977-78. 
It is the only outstanding unaudited annual report for 1977-78 which has not been made public. Can the Minister say why this is so and why the Auditor-General appears to be so reticent about this particular audit? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I preface it by saying that the annual report of the Family Planning Association of Tasmania Incorporated states: 
Although the demands Tor our services continue to grow in both the educational and clinical fields, we have insufficient funds to meet them and we are under instruction from the Federal Department of Health not to increase our clinic services. We must and do try to help all people seeking our services, but there are delays and missed opportunities because of these constraints. We could do much more given the resources and permission to expand. 
Can the Minister say whether this statement is accurate? Has the Department of Health instructed the Family Planning Association of Tasmania Incorporated not to increase its clinic services? 
I ask the Minister for Education: What attitude does he take towards the rumours that the Tasmanian Government is proposing to close the Mount Nelson campus of the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education? 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members  or  the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the effects of hearing impairment are not recognised by the community at large. Seven per cent of the Australian population aged15 and above have some degree of hearing defect, and in Tasmania, sixteen thousand people are socially handicapped through hearing impairment. 
The potential of the hearing impaired and profoundly deaf people within Australia is not recognised, nor are opportunities afforded to these people for the advancement of vocational and economic status or the quality of life. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Honourable Senate take cognizance of your petitioners and encourage the advancement of hearing impaired and deaf people throughout the country. 
Petition received and read. 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee C on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1979-80 and departmental expenditure under the Advance to the Minister of Finance for the year 1978-79 together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications give any information about the stage of development of the proposed Broadcasting Information Office? I understand that the establishment of that unit would mean that a start could be made on researching the effects of television on the learning behaviour of children. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services: Why has the history and description of the Union Jack been omitted from the booklet which describes other aspects of our flag and which is handed out with the Australian flag? The history of the Union Jack is a colourful story which would stimulate interest in our heritage. 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

-by leave-I table additional information received by Estimates Committee C and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I have just been reading the additional information supplied by the Department of Health. On page 29 I have found what I believe to be inaccuracies. I will require an additional explanation from the Department in this regard. 
I ask the Minister representing the  Minister for Defence:  Are full time Army officers commanding medical units permitted to engage in private practice for remuneration at night or weekends and, if so, under what conditions? 

 - Senator Douglas McClelland and many other honourable senators opposite have recalled again tonight the events of 1975. When will the Opposition realise and accept the fact that in 1 975 it was the people of Australia who put the Australian Labor Party out of government. I do not think there would be many in Australia who would dispute the fact that the role of government is, through legislation, to protect the rights of the individual and of the community at large. That is what democracy is all about. 
Democracy is about the rights of every individual in Australia. The freedom that we enjoy in this country, as opposed to the way of life in communist countries, is something for which we must fight. My government will certainly do that. No organisation, group of people or individual can conduct his affairs or way of life without regard to the rights of other Australians. Every resident of Australia, simply by being a resident, has rights and privileges and at the same time, obligations and responsibilities. Quorum formed. I note that not one Labor supporter has answered the call for a quorum, even though earlier this evening  Senator O'Byrne  gave us a lecture and claimed that Liberal Party and National Country Party senators were not here in sufficient numbers to display an interest in the debate.  Senator O'Byrne  himself has just walked into the chamber. 
As J was saying before  Senator Cavanagh  interrupted me by calling a quorum, all Australians, because they are residents of Australia, have rights and privileges. But they also have obligations and responsibilities. This is something that most people choose to ignore today. They choose to think that their rights and privileges are paramount. They seem to get them muddled up with their obligations and responsibilities. I believe the freedom of the individual to behave just as he pleases is mistaken for democracy. They forget that they have obligations and responsibilities in our democracy. There is a fine line between the rights of a person to protest about some government decision that they object to and the rights and privileges of people in the community to be able to go about their normal day's work while they are objecting and protesting. 
This legislation before the chamber tonight is further evidence that my Government is prepared to fight for the rights of the individual and the rights of the Australian people to be able to go about their way of life- I quote from the legislation- free of any:  substantial adverse effect on their safety, health and welfare. 
Let us have a look at the policy of the Labor Government when it comes to fighting for or looking at the rights of the people of Australia when they are put at risk by irresponsible communist led unions in this country. Let us remember the aims of the Communist Party because they are completely opposed to our way of life in this country. They are not in favour of democracy. As a matter of fact, they try to undermine everything that we believe in. It is the policy of the Labor Party that these communist led unions: 
. must be allowed to regulate their own affairs in a democratic way free from government and judicial interference. 
I do not understand how anyone, even members of the Labor Party, could suggest that any organisation should be above the law. Yet this is exactly what the Labor Party brought up at the Adelaide conference. It was decided that a communist led union, no matter how radical it may be, should be above the law and should not be subjected to any government or judicial interference. The Adelaide conference made that an official Labor Party policy. It also made these socalled democratic unions able to exercise their right to strike, immune from any pains or penalties. I think that they were the words used. There was no suggestion of any mechanism that would make sure that these unions were conducted in a democratic fashion. This is not to be part of the Opposition policy because if it were, there would have to be government interference to ensure that they were democratically constructed. 
We have heard of the complaints put forward by the 25 arbitration commissioners. These objections must be kept in perspective. I do not think there are many people who have the power those commissioners have who would willingly give up part of that power no matter how justified it might be. If we bear in mind that these commissioners will not happily give up part of that power, even though it may be well justified, I think that we will be keeping the position in perspective. I believe we have also got to remember that those commissioners must administer the law. It is not their duty to criticise.  Senator Douglas  McClelland said that  Mr Justice  Samuels of New South Wales criticised part of the policies of the Labor Government when it was in power. If that was so, I believe that  Mr Justice  Samuels had no right to criticise the legislation. Judges of this land are appointed to implement the legislation, not to comment on it or to be critical of it. 
The outburst from  Mr Justice  Staples is quite a different matter. Unfortunately, the judge has very little knowledge of the workings of this Parliament. 

 Honourable senators interjecting; 

He has no knowledge of the workings of this Parliament and I do not suppose he should have. He has never been a member of this Parliament; even though he had a go, he did not make it. He has never been a member of this Party and does not know how a Government party committee system works. There is no reason for him to know how this Party works because I believe he was a member of the Communist Party and a member of the Labor Party. He was not a member of the parties of this Government. He claims that the amendments were produced in great secrecy. You,  Mr Deputy President,  and Government senators will know that this legislation came before our back bench members committee in the perfectly normal way that all other legislation has come before our committee previously. There was nothing different about this legislation; there was nothing secretive about it. As I say, I think the judge only made these statements out of complete ignorance of the methods of working of back bench committees. 
However, he also made the statement that the Department of Industrial Relations did not have any input into the construction of that legislation. That is completely inaccurate. Members of the Department came before the committee to describe the legislation. They were completely involved and they had much to do with the drafting of that legislation.  Mr Justice  Staples goes on to say that there were no peak council consultations; that again is untrue. He also says that the National Labour Consultative Council was not taken into the consultation. The Council was consulted. The fact that the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations,  Mr Hawke  and his fellow unionists refused to attend that National Labour Consultative Council is not the problem of  Mr Street.  It is the problem of  Mr Hawke. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland said tonight, Why were they not there at the consultations?' The reason they were not there was because they did not like a certain piece of legislation. They did not like the Commonwealth Government employment provisions that the Government had brought in.  Mr Hawke  decided, like a little boy, to pick up his marbles, go home and not attend the National Labour Consultative Council. If  Mr Hawke  has any intention of entering this Parliament, perhaps after the next election, he will have to learn to behave in a more adult fashion. If he does not approve of a piece of legislation, he will not be able to pick up his marbles, go home and not attend as he did on that occasion. It is time that the prospective member for Wills, if I can put it that way, understood a bit more about the workings of this place before he comes here. 
This legislation has been introduced in answer to a need. There are gaps in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and this legislation has been introduced purely in answer to that need. If the Government attempts to make radical unions answerable to the law, why is it called confrontation '? That is what this is all about. We have been told that this legislation represents nothing but confrontation. The Government is attempting to make the radical unions answerable to law. The normal union member carries on in a responsible fashion and the normal union in this country carries on in a very responsible fashion. It is the radical unions, such as the communist-led unions, the unions led by  Mr Halfpenny  and  Mr Carmichael,  which this legislation is endeavouring to do something about. 
One of the major amendments, even though  Senator Cavanagh  thinks it is not a major amendment, also endeavours to protect the rights of Australians. That is the amendment which says that if the Minister believes that industrial action is likely to have or is having substantial adverse effects on the safety, health and welfare of the community he may apply to the Full Bench of the Commission for a declaration. He cannot determine that that particular industrial action is having that effect; he must apply to the Full Bench. It is then up to the Full Bench to say whether it believes that that industrial action is having a substantial adverse effect on the safety, health and welfare of the community. 
-' Substantial adverse effect'. 
I will give an example to the honourable senator. Take the instance when the milk carters struck for a long time. I believe that that is a typical example of a strike affecting the safety, health and welfare of the community. 
-The honourable senator asked me for an example and I have given him one. If the Full Bench agrees with the Minister, then the declaration is made. It then goes to the Governor-General who may, within a period of six months and on the advice of his Ministers, deregister a union or order lesser penalties, as  Senator Scott  has said. Those lesser penalties include the cancelling of the rights, privileges or capacities of the union concerned, or the restriction of the use of organisation funds or properties. That is one of the major amendments, and I believe it is the major amendment. 
Proposed new section 22A relates to consultation and says that commissioners must consult if they go outside the guidelines of the Full Bench. This seems to be the section which most disturbs  Senator Cavanagh.  All that the legislation says is that if a commissioner intends to bring down an award outside the normal guidelines of the Full Bench - 
The section does relate to wages and conditions. All the commissioner has to do is to go along and consult with the deputy president of his panel. The panels work in consultation. All the commissioner has to do is to go along and consult. If, after that consultation, the commissioner still wants to go his own way, that is perfectly all right. There is nothing in the legislation which says that the deputy president will override the award of the commissioner. It just proposes that consultation should take place. 
Tonight members of the Opposition have given us a lecture on the lack of consultation by out Government. Yet in the very next sentence they object to the consultation of this Government desires to put into the legislation. That is something that I find very difficult to understand. Some extraordinary awards have been brought down by some of the commissioners- awards that have gone well beyond the wage guidelines set down by the Full Bench. That has resulted in the viability of an industry being threatened. If the viability of an industry is threatened, then the threat to jobs is twice as severe. It is time that the Opposition and the radical unions realised that profit' is not a dirty word. Profit is the only thing that gives people jobs. Another amendment is contained in proposed new section 25A. This is designed to prevent a commissioner from making an award recommending that employers pay employees for time lost through strike action.  Senator Tate  said that 'no work no pay' sounded very nice on the surface but the commissioners had awarded strike pay only where it had been proved that the strike was the fault of the employer. Perhaps we should look at one of the cases in the Victorian building and construction industry where  Mr Commissioner  Brown recommended that five weeks pay be paid to cover loss through strike action or people being stood down. 
-Does the honourable senator want to know what that strike was about? 
-That strike was about a $30 wage increase. It had nothing to do with the employer doing something wrong. The employees were after a $30 wage increase. Because the strike was a protracted one- it went on for seven weeks and two days-  Mr Commissioner  Brown recommended that the employer pay for five weeks of the time lost. That is the sort of thing that causes people to lose jobs hand over fist. An employer must be viable. He must make a profit to be able to employ men. 
There are further amendments. One amendment provides for application to the Full Bench. This can be done by either party, by the Minister or by the  President  of the Commission if he so chooses, if he feels that matters are bogging down and that a commissioner will not be able to come up with a recommendation. We have had cases where a commissioner has not been able to establish that there is industrial disputation while a strike is in progress! In cases where the situation is bogged down, the  President  can take it to the Full Bench. We come then to stand-down clauses. These are contained in proposed new section 33A. This section again protects jobs. Quite frankly, if stand-down clauses are not available an employer would go broke if he had to pay his employees.  ( Quorum formed).  As I was saying before the second quorum was calledthus taking up my time frivolously- proposed new section 33A deals with stand-down clauses. As the legislation stands at the moment, if a stand-down clause is in an award that clause permits employers not to pay employees who cannot usefully be employed during industrial action. If there is not a stand-down clause in the award and someone applies for a stand-down that application should be dealt with as expeditiously as possible. If the person making the application feels that the matter is not being dealt with as quickly as possible then he has the right it to a Full Bench. Those are the main amendments in this legislation. 
In the time left to me I would like to stress that not only  Senator Bishop  but also  Senator Tate  and  Senator Douglas  McClelland spoke about the Government's proposed intervention in the consultation area. It will not be intervention. The Commonwealth Government has enabled only pure consultation. The Government has not insisted that a  deputy president  has an overriding power on a commissioner. It has merely said that commissioners must consult with a  deputy president. Senator Tate  also said that there was no consultation with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and with the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations. I have dealt with that matter. I said that the ACTU and 
CAGEO were too childish to go along to a meeting even though the Minister for Industrial Relations on two occasions wrote to them and invited them along. If they chose to keep out of that consultation then that can hardly be blamed on the Minister.  Senator Tate  also said that an application for deregistration is a matter for Cabinet. That is absolute nonsense. An application for deregistration has to go to the Full Bench of the Commission for its decision. 
-Senator Tate has obviously not looked thoroughly at the legislation. He says that that is wrong. The Minister must apply to the Full Bench for a declaration. The Full Bench must make that declaration, not the Minister. The Full Bench must agree with the Minister that there are in fact grounds for a declaration of substantial adverse effects on the health, safety or welfare of the community. The Cabinet does not do that, the Full Bench does. It is only on the declaration of the Full Bench that the matter is taken to the Governor-General. It is with great pleasure that I support the Bill which is before the chamber this evening. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health by drawing the Senate's attention to the recent Australian Broadcasting Commission television program in which a scientist from the Research School of Biological Sciences at the Australian National University stated that many of our quarantine laws are framed in biological ignorance. Can the Minister say whether this is fact or whether expert advice is obtained in the framing of our quarantine laws. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to table further additional information received by Estimates Committee C. 
Leave granted. 
I table the additional information and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer the Minister to an article in today's Hobart  Mercury  entitled 'Unfavourable Terms of Loan Admitted'. I ask: Is it a fact, as reported in the  Mercury,  that the Tasmanian Government might have to repay $18m on a Commonwealth Government loan of $680,000 provided to develop Tasmania's forestry industry? Is there any truth in the reported comments of anonymous accounting sources to the effect that the Tasmanian Government would be paying 42 per cent interest a year to service the loan? Has the Minister any information on this matter to set at rest the concern of Tasmanians who may have read this report in the  Mercury! 
I present the following petition from 1 ,073 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we, the undersigned citizens of Australia, believe there are conflicting community standards prevailing relating to offensive language. Citizens are frequently charged and convicted by law for the use of offensive language in public whereas obscene and profane language can be beamed into the privacy of the home and heard by people of all ages by way of Television and Radio and offended citizens have no redress. 
The Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should take all possible steps to ensure all personnel associated with the transmission and broadcasting of Television and Radio be required to adhere to an acceptable code of ethics relating to language thus giving community members confidence that breaches of common decency codes will not occur. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I draw to the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health the fact that today is Universal Children 's Day and that the theme 'Adequate NutritionThe Right of Every Child' is being promoted. Will the Minister advise the Senate what steps have been taken by the Department of Health to implement the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts report on children and television, which was tabled in the Senate last year and which referred to the health and nutrition of children? Has there been a meeting between the Commonwealth Department of Health, the Australian Medical Association, the Australian Dental Association and the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal with a view to drawing up a set of proposals to control the advertising on television of products which pose a health and nutrition risk to children? Can the Minister advise the Senate what action will be taken in this regard in this, the International Year of the Child? 
-This Bill incorporates a number of amendments to the Social Services Act which were brought forward by the Government in its Budget. These amendments underline the Government's continued concern for those most in need in our community. Despite the remarks of members of the Opposition, I believe that the community acknowledges the Government's concern. I will deal firstly with the amendment relating to the provision for twice-yearly indexation of pensions and benefits. When the Government decided over 12 months ago to have only once-yearly indexation of pensions, it was expected that the inflation rate would be running at about 5 per cent a year. However, owing to overseas pressures, particularly in the area of oil- over which we have no say- and meat prices which certainly are not begrudged by us but are out of our control, inflation has not come down as much as we had hoped. 
At June 1978-79 inflation was running at 8.8 per cent. As a result of that the Government decided to reintroduce twice-yearly indexation of pensions. Taking into account the September 1979 quarterly indexation figure of 2.3 per cent, inflation in this country from September 1978 to September 1979 was 9.2 per cent. The average inflation figure for the member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development is 12.7 per cent, so Australia is still doing particularly well in this area. Increases to pensions will occur in May and November each year. The first increase will be on 8 November 1979. Of course it will include both increases that have been payable during the year. The increase for a single pensioner will be from $53.20 to $57.90 a week. The married rate goes from $88.70 to $96.50 a week. 

 Senator Grimes commented on the fact that pensioners were particularly badly off under this Government. As far back as November 1978 the pension was a higher per cent of average weekly earnings than it had been under the Labor Government. It was running at 24 per cent of the average weekly earnings. This represents an increase of just on one per cent when compared with that of the previous government. In 1975 when the Opposition was in government, the pension was running at 23.1 per cent of average weekly earnings. I am sure that the one per cent increase is appreciated by the people receiving the benefit. Of course this does not take into account the fringe benefits which, as the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has pointed out many times, in most States is estimated to amount to an extra $ 10 a week. 
Another amendment relating to pensioner benefits is the increase in the income limits before there is a loss of entitlements to fringe benefits. I suppose I have received more representations from pensioners regarding fringe benefits than I have on any other matter. The amount for a single pensioner has increased from $33 a week to $40 a week and for a married pensioner from $57.50 a week to $68 a week.  (Quorum formed).  It is extraordinary how, when anything hits home, the Opposition seems to call for a quorum. As I have mentioned, the proposed fringe benefits will be worth about $10 a week. For some of these benefits the Commonwealth Government is responsible but the States also provide certain assistance to those who hold a pensioner health benefit card. The Commonwealth provides benefits, including pharmaceutical items, to holders of that card. It also allows a one-third reduction in telephone rentals, and provides free hearing aids and free consultations for those who need spectacles. The States give fare allowances on public transport, assistance with rent or rates and aid in respect of heating and many other small benefits. The raising of the income limit means that there will be an additional 25,000 pensioners and 5,000 dependants. This is applauded by most of the people who have come to me and indicated that a small increase in their superannuation had put them outside of the previous limit. They will now be able to take advantage of the fringe benefits available to pensioners. 
Another amendment concerns the supporting parent's benefit. When this Government came to office the single father was not entitled to any benefit. 
-Senator Cavanagh seems to be having a great deal of fun interrupting. I wish that he would approach this Bill in a more serious fashion. I am sure that it is serious to those who are listening. 
I am sure that they do not appreciate the honourable senator's frivolous approach to this Bill. When this Government came to office single fathers were not entitled to benefits. Under this Government they are being provided with exactly the same assistance as that given supporting mothers. Both supporting mothers and fathers are now entitled to the fringe benefits that are associated with possession of the health benefit card. These will be of great assistance to some 56,000 supporting parents, 2,500 of whom are men, and their dependants. 
An amendment will also be made in respect of the payment of family allowance, the double orphan 's pension and the handicapped children's allowance. In past years there has been an anomaly in that payments have been made from the fifteenth day of each month to cover the period to the fourteenth day of the next month. The whole of the allowance has been paid to the person or institution in whose care the child has been on the first day of that period. A child might well be in an institution for a short time only. In such cases the family allowance and the double orphan's pension has gone to that institution, even though the child might have been in the institution for only two days. That meant that the mother was not entitled to any of the payment. That situation has been remedied and entitlement will now be assessed on the number of days that the child spends in either place. The handicapped children's allowance does not go to an institution, but absence of a child from home for a short period has debarred a parent from receiving that handicapped children's allowance. Such short absences will now be disregarded. 
Unemployment benefit provisions also are to be amended. This is a matter concerning which  Senator Grimes  has brought down certain amendments. He believes that if someone voluntarily leaves his employment a postponement of payment of benefits should not be allowed. On the contrary, this Government believes that if someone is holding a job, has no other employment to go to, and voluntarily relinquishes it, he should not be entitled to receive unemployment benefits for a minimum period of six weeks and a maximum period of 12 weeks. Other amendments relate to people who become unemployed through strike action, bans, or go slow action. The Government believes that if someone deliberately goes on strike he should not be supported by the taxpayer. 
It is a pity that  Senator Primmer  has not studied the Bill. That assertion is completely wrong. Someone who is out of work as a result of his own strike action will not be paid unemployment benefits, but if his wife is willing to go to work but is unable to find a job, she will be paid unemployment benefits. 
-His wife is entitled to unemployment benefits and to extra assistance for the children. It is a pity that  Senator Primmer  had not studied the Bill a little more carefully before interjecting. 
May I just point out, because this seems to be causing the Opposition some concern, that the Government has merely returned to the position that was taken by the Chifley Government in 1947. 

 - Senator Primmer says Big deal', but  Mr Chifley  was one of the most respected of Labor leaders- one who was respected by Australians generally. 

 -Obviously, Senator Primmer does not consider that  Mr Chifley  was a well respected leader of the Australian Labor Party. Under his Government, in 1947, a person who was a direct participant in a strike was not paid unemployment benefit. If he was not a direct participant but was a member of a participating union, and employed at the place of industrial action, he was not entitled to receive unemployment benefit. If he was a member of the participating union he was not paid unemployment benefit even though he was not directly participating and not employed at the place of industrial action. As a matter of fact, if he was a member of a non-participating union which did not disown the strike he was not paid unemployment benefit. This Government's legislation does not go that far. It merely makes the members of such a union responsible for the actions of their fellows. I believe that if the members of one union have no say in whether their fellow members go on strike and they are stood down as a result of no work being available, the taxpayer should not pay their strike pay, which is what the Opposition's proposal amounts to. I am afraid that I cannot agree with  Senator Grimes'  proposal in relation to the provision in this area because he believes that all people striking should be paid the unemployment benefit.  (Quorum formed).  It is absolutely incredible. 

 - Senator Primmer says that I am turning the clock back 32 years to the Chifley reign.  Senator Primmer  says that this is quite irrelevant. As I said earlier, I believe that  Mr Chifley  was one of the respected Labor Prime Ministers. I believe that the Opposition is not terribly happy about learning that  Mr Chifley  's industrial relations measures were even more severe than those of this Government. He demanded that any unionist who was stood down due to lack of work must disown the strike before he was permitted to be paid unemployment benefit. This Government is not seeking that sort of provision. The Government is saying that the responsible members of the union must have some say about whether the union members go on strike. If they are not prepared to have some say in the matter and they are stood down due to lack of work, then I do not believe that the taxpayer should be asked to pay their strike pay. 

 Senator Grimes was on the same old bandwagon when he spoke of the redistribution of wealth. We have heard that argument many times. It is always claimed by people who do not think the matter through- I do not believe for one moment that  Senator Grimes  honestly believes it- that there can be a great redistribution of wealth in this country. Profit is not a dirty word. It cannot be a dirty word. If it is considered as such, then we will not have employment; we will have much greater unemployment than we have at the moment. I believe that there would not be a thinking person in Australia who would not realise that unless the boss makes a profit he cannot possibly employ men. It is a pity that  Senator Grimes  likes to get so emotional on this particular issue. Earlier  Senator Coleman  stated that all the food manufacturers were making profits which are far too great and that they are not employing enough people. There are few manufacturing industries in which labour intensive work is greater. Perhaps the jobs that these food manufacturers provide are not very satisfactory jobs, but they are jobs. The manufacturers have to make a profit to be able to make those jobs available. 
Let us deal with the second part of the amendment which was put forward by  Senator Grimes.  He suggests an increase in the unemployment benefit for those under 18 years of age. I believe that by far the majority of those under 1 8 years of age are still supported partially by their families. Their families still provide a roof over their heads. They receive $36 a week with which they can assist with their board, clothing and fares. I believe that the majority of families are still anxious to support their children, both emotionally and in a material sense, at least until they are 18 years of age.  Senator Grimes'  amendment then seeks to remove the provisions relating to the mandatory postponement period for the voluntary unemployed. In other words, he says that anyone who is holding a good job, for whatever reason, should be able to give up that job and go on the unemployment benefit. I have dealt with the most important parts of the Opposition's amendment. I have no hesitation in supporting the Bill before the House. 
Neither  Senator Grimes  nor  Senator Chipp  has taken into account what the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said about costing. Certainly  Senator Chipp  has spoken about not being able to put forward Labor Party policy. He made his excuses in that area. But he has not taken up the costing area. 
-Senator Chipp suggested that pensions should be indexed quarterly. I wonder whether costing should be taken into consideration in that area. 
-by leave-I table additional information received by Senate Estimates Committee C and seek leave to have it incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question, without notice, on 22 May 1979: 
Will the Minister confer with the Treasurer in an effort to permit those persons who wish to insulate their homes against the rigours of the winter to receive tax deductions for the cost of that installation? This would encourage Australians living in the colder areas of our country to save energy which otherwise would be wasted in heating houses which are not insulated. 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council has not been democratically elected by the women of Australia; 
That the National Women's Advisory Council is not representative of the women of Australia; 
That the National Women's Advisory Council is a discriminatory and sexist imposition on Australian women as Australian men do not have a National Men's Advisory Council imposed on them. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the National Women's Advisory Council be abolished to ensure that Australian women have equal opportunity with Australian men of having issues of concern to them considered, debated and voted on by their Parliamentary representatives without intervention and interference by an unrepresentative "Advisory Council". 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications satisfied that both the radio and television media are conforming to a satisfactory standard of language during programming, or is he of the view that these media are, by their very programs, supporting a lowering of acceptable standards of language? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Will she ask her Department to undertake an extensive survey in 1980 of working mothers of pre-school and school age children to establish the truth or otherwise of the oft quoted statement that a large number of women in our society would gladly give up work to look after their children if they could afford to do so. 
I direct my question to either the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It relates to the siege of the United States Embassy in Tehran. I preface my question by pointing out that  President  Carter has appealed for calm in order to avoid any action which could inflame the situation in Tehran. However, we find that a member of the Australian Broadcasting Commission not only ignored  Mr Carter's  appeal but also ran the risk of jeopardising the security of Australian citizens in Iran on Monday by ringing the United States Embassy there and speaking to one of the Iranian students, causing emotional irritation, the consequence of which was completely unpredictable. Can the Minister say whether there is any editorial control in this area of foreign affairs where matters are so sensitive? 
I present the following petition from 12 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council has not been democratically elected by the women of Australia; 
That the National Women's Advisory Council is not representative of the women of Australia; 
That the National Women's Advisory Council is a discriminatory and sexist imposition on Australian woman as Australian men do not have a National Men's Advisory Council imposed on them. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council be abolished to ensure that Australian women have equal opportunity with Australian men of having issues of concern to them considered, debated and voted on by their Parliamentary representatives without intervention and interference by an unrepresentative 'Advisory Council '. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and relates to package tours being offered for the 1 980 Olympiad to be held in Moscow. Is it a fact that Jetset 
Tours (Aust.) Pty Ltd is the sole handler of travel to the Olympic Games? Who is Jetset Tours? Is it a fact that travel agents were informed that their clients must send $200 deposit without knowledge of the details of the package tour being allocated to them? Is it a fact that that $200 would be refunded only in the unlikely event that Jetset Tours could not offer any ticket selection whatsoever even if it were not in accord with the client's wishes? In the event that a client may wish to wait until advised of details of the package tour allocated to him, is it a fact that his name would be removed from the registration listing of Jetset Tours? Finally, does this dictatorial attitude of Jetset Tours contravene the Trade Practices Act? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport say when the report regarding the manning of Maatsuyker Island light station is expected by the Minister for Transport? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. First I draw his attention to the fact that throughout Australia excellent facilities are available for pre-school and school-age deaf children. However, I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that no provision is made for deaf students at Australian universities? If that is a fact, what is the possibility of facilities being made available for them? 
-Senate Estimates Committee C in its report asked the Government to provide the Senate with a comprehensive statement on why there had been a long delay in the tabling of the 1 977-78 annual report of the Health Insurance Commission. Can the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  respond to that request? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, refers to a recent grant from the Federal Government to the 
Tasmanian Government for the development of a specialist manpower unit. Firstly, is the funding intended to help to train young people for careers in industry and commerce? Secondly, is the grant in the form of special assistance to Tasmania or have similar grants been made available to other States? 
-My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs follows the question I asked yesterday in which I referred to a recent grant from the Federal Government to the Tasmanian Government for the development of a specialist manpower unit. I ask firstly, whether the funding is intended to help to train young people for careers in industry and commerce and, secondly, whether the grant is in the form of special assistance to Tasmania or have similar grants been made available to other States. I now ask: Is the grant given to Tasmania for that manpower unit to be a pilot project for the whole of Australia? 
