I ask the Minister for Social Security: What is the policy of her Department on the payment of unemployment benefit to persons who are dismissed as distinct from stood down- I emphasise that distinction- as a result of their having been direct participants in strike action? Has the Minister had drawn to her attention the case of  Mr Donato  Ruberto a Victorian builders labourer, whose application for unemployment benefit in these circumstances has now been languishing in her Department for nearly four weeks? How much longer will  Mr Ruberto  and his family have to wait for a decision in this not excessively complex matter? 
I present the following petition from 38 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of the Commonwealth in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australian respectfully showeth: 
That Item 6469 on the Medical Benefits Table, relating to curettes and abortions, should not be removed or modified in any way. 
That this item covers a legally and medically approved procedure, and its removal or modification would have the most serious social, economic and medical repercussions for many thousands of Australian women. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-It is with no little trepidation that I rise for the first time to address this House, given the frequency and vigour with which in the past, wearing a variety of academic and lawyerly hats, 1 have expressed my views as to its undemocratic character, its irresponsible conduct and its insupportable delusions of constitutional grandeur. Indeed I have the feeling that, as pleasant and polite as my reception on the face of it may have been, there are a number of honourable senators, not to mention officers of this place, who would really only be satisfied if I were required to walk the corridors like a medieval leper armed with a little hand bell calling out before me as I went: 'Unclean, unclean'. 
It would perhaps be as well if I left to another occasion any further thoughts I may have to offer on the uses and abuses of Senate power. A maiden speech should, after all, be just that, as I have been reminded often enough in the past few days. It should be a demure, modest, genuinely maiden affair, perhaps like a speech by  Senator Walters,  neither brazen nor provocative. 
This may not be a proper occasion for impertinence, nor is it one for penitence. I take this opportunity to place on record my unshakeable determination- along with that of my Labor Party colleagues- to ensure that the constitutional outrages of 1974 and 1975 are never again repeated. If this House does have a useful role to play in the legislative process, it does not lie in menacing or threatening a properly elected government with the power of life or death based on some spurious conception of the Senate's position as a defender of States' rights or federalism or the more recently fashionable notion that it is a last resort defender of the national interest against the Huns and Visigoths of the lower House. Rather it lies in the careful and effective scrutiny, analysis, testing and review of the legislative and executive initiatives of the government of the day, and occasionally in the initiation of reforming legislative proposals of its own. There are ample precedents in recent years for constructive and helpful work of this kind. I look forward to participating in it and wish only that the Senate would get on with it. 

 Mr President, I have no doubt that should honourable senators be minded to get on with the job, they will be much assisted in that process by your own courtly presence in the chair, and I join with other senators in congratulating you on your re-election to that high office. May I also add my voice to those of the several senators who spoke at the end of the last session to pay tribute to  Senator Bill  Brown, my predecessor. Over the years Bill Brown has maintained an unwavering commitment to the democratic socialist goal of a just and equal society in this country.  His  qualities not only as a man of principle but also as a gentleman of unfailing courtesy and tolerance in dealing with the idiosyncrasies of his fellows were widely recognised during his time in this place and nowhere more so than in his appointment as  Chairman  of the Labor Party Caucus, the first non-leader of the party to be so honoured. 
Just as this House has much to do by its own good works to restore its credibility and moral authority with the Australian community, so too has this Government. Whatever might be the case with respect to the Senate, in the case of the Government I doubt very much indeed whether any kind of redemption is now possible. Things have gone too far; the malaise has cut too deep; and this Budget now confirms it. There can be few governments since Federation which have managed to demonstrate in so short a time in office so many unpleasant characteristics unaccompanied by any redeeming constructive contribution to the life of the nation. Let me concentrate for present purposes on just three of those characteristics, each of which is revealed with remarkable clarity in the Budget Papers which are now before this House. I refer to the Government's congenital incapacity to tell the truth or keep its word; its insensitivity to the point of inhumanity in dealing with the less fortunate members of the community; and its complete incompetence to manage the affairs, in particular the economic affairs, of this nation. 
The essential dishonesty of this Government becomes evident, if it were not already, in the latest breathtaking additions to the list of broken electoral promises of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Taxes were to come down, and so they did for a few months until the election was over. Now income taxes are back to where they were before for the majority of earners. Indirect taxes, of course, have taken off through the roof. 
Medibank was to be retained, but now it has disappeared entirely to be replaced by a pale, sickly creature of a subsidy system, neither flesh nor fowl, which even the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  concedes probably will not see out the year in its present form. On pensions, it was promised that the means test would be abolished and that the real value of pensions would be maintained. Now we have the restoration of an incomes or means test for pensioners over 70 years of age, the retreat to annual indexation for pensioners generally and the abolition of indexation entirely for pensioners without dependants. Not even the most gullible souls in our community, not even the most innocent sideline spectators of the Australian political process, could now believe anything that is said by any Minister in this Government, including the beleaguered rump that now purports to represent it in this chamber. 
This Government's cavalier disregard of the truth extends not only to the promises blatantly broken in this Budget but also to the very basis on which it is constructed, and in particular the way in which the deficit has been calculated. At least last year the then Treasurer had the decency to signal his alarm with the fiddling of the figures by saying that some of them were rubbery'- that now famous expression. This year the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has been unable to come up with any euphemism at all, salacious or otherwise, to dress up the reality that some of the key figures in this Budget are just plain rigged. I will take just one small examplethe estimate for unemployment benefits, which is down from last year, although the Treasurer has already conceded that unemployment will rise by at least 25,000 this year, and of course that is a wildly optimistic figure. 
The stock markets and their investors have reacted in the last week like a collection of giggling schoolgirls to the promise of a moderate deficit and the holding down of interest rates which this implies. But it will be only a matter of time before they discover that this year's calculations will be as wildly astray as last year's that the deficit has blown out again; and that they, no less than the rest of the community, have been seduced only to be abandoned by this congenitally dishonest Government. 
Of course some very large groups in the community have been abandoned even more directly and mercilessly than anyone in the business sector. This is evidence, if any more is needed, of the all-pervasive inhumanity which has so characterised every action of this Government. It has aimed this Budget at the people least able to help themselves. Those people who can least afford it will be worst hit by the new or increased regressive taxes, by the crippling new charges on lump sum leave payments, by the abolition of the maternity allowance, by the destruction of the concept of universal health insurance, by the massive reductions in welfare housing and by the niggling and mean-spirited changes to social service benefits to people such as accident victims undergoing rehabilitation and even tuberculosis sufferers. 
But more important than any of these measures in demonstrating the sheer inhuman callousness of this Government is of course its attitude to unemployment.  Senator Chaney  may well shudder in his chair as he is doing at the moment, when he contemplates these figures. If one gives the Government the benefit of every conceivable statistical doubt, the reality still is that for every single day that this Government has been in office another 75 Australians have joined the official dole queue, that is, one person for every 15 to 20 minutes of every hour of every day. For every unfilled vacancy there are now 22 registered unemployed competing for that job. Countless others who would work if they could, particularly to supplement the declining real income of the main family breadwinner, have simply been forced to give up the task as hopeless and to join the ranks of the hidden unemployed. It is not just the young people who are affected, although everyone knows that unquestionably they are the worst hit. Job security for the middle-aged worker is now a thing of the past. The tension of waiting for the axe to fall is almost as hard to bear as the pain when it does fall. The cost to everyone concerned and to the community at large is devastating. 
The answer given by the present Government to this situation is absolutely and unequivocally clear: The unemployed are in that position either because they do not want to work or they just represent the price which has to be paid in order to get inflation down. The thought that every last one of those people out of work is not just a statistic but a human being- depressed, despairing and fast losing any shred of dignity and confidence that he once might have had in himselfnever seems to have occurred to those who look out upon the world from the broad acres of the Western District of Victoria. 
There may be some hardened souls left who would be prepared to forgive this Government its cynicism, hypocrisy, dishonesty and inhumanity if they could be persuaded that all this harsh medicine was really necessary to turn the Australian economy around. But is there anyone left who can believe this story any longer? Inflation has been falling rapidly in the last year or so, as the Prime Minister has been telling us with nauseating repetitiveness. That is not altogether surprising when it is contemplated that the economy as a whole has almost ground to a halt. But accompanying this decline in inflation has been no sign whatever of the promised pick-up in economic activity. With the help of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which must be wondering what on earth it has done to justify all the abuse which this Government is continually heaping upon it, real wages have been declining over an even longer period- not spectacularly but certainly significantly. Even if there is a degree of so-called 'real wage overhang' still existing- the country's most credible economists all now deny it- everyone agrees, right across the spectrum, that this phenomenon has been at least significantly reduced. 
Again there is no sign whatsoever of that being accompanied by increased economic activity. It is not even as though this Budget, when it is examined closely, is clearly following a single, coherent economic strategy. Many of the measures in the Budget will in fact contribute directly to that very inflation which it is supposed to be the overriding objective of the Budget as a whole to avoid. Perhaps the largest single inflationary impact will come from the massive increase in petrol prices, the effect of which will very quickly be felt not only by the individual motorist, particularly the rural motorist but in the price of every transported product. Where was the National Country Party when this Budget was being drafted? The flow-through effects of this increase just do not appear to have been seriously considered or quantified in any way in the Budget Papers. What might have been a rational and defensible increase if it had been phased in over a substantial period becomes quite irrational and indefensible- except to Esso-BHP, which stands to make a massive windfall gain by it- when it is introduced, as it was, overnight. 
If the Government thinks that Australian workers will stand idly by and allow their wages to be eroded again to the extent that is contemplated in this Budget, then it has another think coming, particularly when there is no evidence whatsoever that it has any considered long term solutions to the country's economic problems and when it is clear that all it is really doing is thrashing around aimlessly, blaming everyone but itself for the difficulties that we are in. 
Indeed the most depressing single aspect of this whole Budget for anyone concerned, as all Australians must be, with the whole future structure, operation and prosperity of the national economy, is what it reveals about the Government's response to the striking and enormously far-reaching changes which have been occurring in very recent years in both the domestic and international market places, all of which have direct and immediate implications for the kind of economic strategy that the Government ought to be pursuing. The catalogue of those changes is familiar enough and I do not need to labour or elaborate them. Internationally speaking, the key changes have been the explosion of productive capacity in the Third World countries, particularly in our own region, aided and abetted and usually indeed dominated by multinationals responsible only to themselves; the rapid development of regional trading communities, conspicuously the European Economic Community, which has created brand new barriers to entry by outsiders, even by those countries with long traditions of access; and the escalating instability in the international monetary system brought on by a chain of events associated primarily with the exploitation of the world wide energy shortage by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. 
Within Australia we have been witnessing the steady contraction, erosion and progression toward total collapse of large sections of manufacturing industry, particularly those importcompeting industries which have long been the most heavily protected. We have been witnessing the arrival on our shores of the technological revolution, particularly now in communications and information processing, and the accelerating replacement of men and women with machines and integrated circuits at a hitherto undreamed of pace and scale. And we have been witnessing, largely associated with that, the conspicuous decline in the ability of an already overcrowded tertiary sector to accommodate, as it always has in the past and as in orthodox theory it is supposed to, the drift of employment away from the primary and particularly the secondary sectors. I do not know whether it is the product of ignorance or indifference or, indeed, which of the two is worse, but the present Government seems to be reacting to these developments with all the alert and sophisticated understanding of moo-cows in a paddock gazing at the passing traffic. 
The present Government seems to be so ideologically eggbound- to vary the metaphor for a moment- so obsessed with its conception of the function of government as being just to hold the ring while free market forces do their best or worst, that it seems to have failed utterly to appreciate that the old Tory verities just will not work any more, if they ever did. What is needed so far from government retreating from the field is for it to play a more central, leading, guiding and dominant role than ever before. Of course, what matters is not government intervention in the economy for its own sake, but rather the nature and quality of that intervention. If the techniques employed are those of the present Government- savage general deflation, massive doses of induced unemployment, authoritarian suppression of legitimately reacting trade unions, the simultaneous feather-bedding of selected industries- then none of this sort of reaction will stop the all too visible decline towards us becoming, as someone recently predicted, the Uruguay of the South Pacific: a country where both rural and manufacturing industries have collapsed, leaving no jobs at all for most of the work force, and where the sole real wealth lies in capitalintensive low employment mining owned and exploited by foreigners. 
What is needed is an approach to our problems reflected not just in the Budget but across the whole spectrum of government activity, which embodies a new set of priorities and perspectives, and which is built, at the very least, around the following general strategies. First, a willingness to accept that significant public expenditure- and, better still, as  Senator Tate  said, direct government participation in productive activity- is a crucially necessary element in any systematic program of economic recovery. The notion that the public sector is competing with the private sector for scarce resources which the private sector is only too anxious to mobilise, if only the public sector would get out of its hair, is palpably absurd. I suggest that for a start we just ask anyone in the building industry, perhaps commencing with  Senator Rocher  who is another new arrival in this chamber. I suspect he knows a good deal more about this matter than anyone on the Government side. 
Secondly, Government and business have to operate on a much more closely integrated basis than they have in the past. I do not mean by that the informal old-boy backslapping which is the most characteristic feature of this Government's relations with business. If we are ever to stop just talking about structural adjustment and to start actually doing something, for example, towards making manufacturing more competitive, diversified and export oriented, then we will have to move not only in the direction of specific initiatives such as major government support for research and development or export incentivesneither of which, incidentally, despite what  Senator Messner  had to say earlier, received more than token support in the Budget- but also to something like full scale indicative planning on the European model. 
Thirdly, the trade union movement has to be brought into this kind of exercise as a full partner. It will have to be consulted, informed and encouraged to co-operate in policy development on fully equal terms. But as long as the unions are kicked, gouged, bullied and blamed for all the ills of the economy, which overwhelmingly are not of their own making, and as long as they are completely ignored by organisations like 
Telecom Australia when massive manpower replacement programs are set in train, then they need apologise to no one for vigorously fighting back to protect the interests of their members, of the ordinary working men and women of the community. Fourthly, a great deal more attention has to be given to interaction between economic and social policy and the trade-offs which it might be possible to strike between them if the right atmosphere of candour and co-operation can be reached between the relevant parties. 
Fifthly, there will have to be a readiness on all sides, which is quite lacking at the moment to contemplate such heresies as job-sharing, shorter working hours, longer holidays, earlier retirement and a whole variety of other means for improving access to the labour market and achieving the more equal distribution of employment opportunities. 
Finally, whatever else happens there must be major public resources devoted to improving the education and skill levels of youngsters leaving school and the counselling and job-placement help which they can get while still there, and also to on-the-job and off-the-job training and retraining programs. This should all go without saying, but it needs to be said in the light of the omissions and the extraordinary expenditure cuts which appear in this area of the Budget. Programs of this kind will not, of course, in themselves guarantee everyone jobs but the alternative is to condemn many people out of hand to a lifetime on the scrap heap. 
These are the kinds of strategies and programs with which my Party, the Australian Labor Party, is presently grappling and trying to think its way through. They are totally ignored in the Budget and in everything else that this Government is doing. Whilst I am confident that we can identify and solve the fundamental problems which afflict the Australian economy, and do so far more effectively than the present Government, I certainly do not suggest that we have all the answers now. Even more, I certainly do not suggest that the answers which we as a party may have offered in the past are necessarily all still relevant. Certainly, the problems now crying out for attention can not be solved by tub thumping fundamentalism. Nor can we fall back any longer on easy assumptions about continued growth of the gross domestic product, of incomes and of taxation revenue of the kind which underlay our welfare distributionist program in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Times have changed and our policies and programs must change with them. 
What will always remain constant about the Labor movement," however, is that unlike the Government which has no discernible commitment to any ideals at all, we do have an underlying set of values which give force, vitality and coherence to everything that we do and stand for, to every attitude that we strike and to every policy and program that we initiate. As democratic socialists- we bear the label proudly- we stand for the values of equality, liberty and democracy: greater real equality in the distribution of wealth, income, power and status in the community; full respect for the personal freedom and dignity of the individual; the fullest possible opportunity for democratic participation by every individual in all the major decisions that affect his or her life in the work place and in the local community as much as in the larger political sphere. We believe that these are values which are shared by the great mass of the Australian people, but they are not values which are shared or even understood by the present Government. 
We believe that guided and moved by these values we can not only identify, confront and solve the problems that afflict the Australian economy, but also we can do it in a way which is not an affront to the decency, humanity or dignity of the ordinary Australian citizen. On the evidence of the Government's performance to date and particularly on the evidence of this Budget, this is not something which can be said of the Fraser Government. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Webster)  adjourned. 
The Attorney-General will know that in June last year the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act was passed by this Parliament and assented to but has not yet been proclaimed. He will also know that the Act provides in section 19 that the Government may make regulations exempting various decisions from judicial review under that Act. I ask the Attorney-General whether the failure to proclaim the Act is the result of the Government's inability to make up its mind as to what the Act should not apply to. After 14 months, has the Government not been able to work out which Acts, Ministers, departments or officials it wants to hide from judicial review? Will the AttorneyGeneral inform the Senate when it can expect to see the exemptions under section 19 and when this important legislation will be proclaimed? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of widespread Press reports of the utterances of one Miss Barbara Biggs in the last week when she was recorded as saying, among quite a number of other things, that she had been a member of other unions in the past and might again be in the future and that in the proceedings before the Industrial Registrar or his delegate on the conscientious objection exemption matter she was 'virtually forced to say what she didn't believe', namely 'that all unions and the concept of unionism are bad '? Is the Minister prepared to table the transcript, minutes or other notes or record of proceedings when Miss Biggs 's claim for exemption was heard before the Industrial Registrar or his delegate? Is the Government prepared to amend the present section 144A of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act in the light of these recent events to give a right of representation and cross-examination by the relevant union at the hearing of such exemption proceedings, to require the Registrar to state bis reasons, if any, for granting or refusing an exemption and to give a right of appeal to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or the Federal Court to a union aggrieved by an exemption decision? 
I rise to share with the Senate the following extraordinary communication which I, in common I understand with  Senator Missen  and the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  in another place, yesterday received from the Premier of Queensland in the form of a telegram: 

 Senator Gareth Evans Parliament House Canberra 
I am considering protesting to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights over the violation of human rights in your home State of Victoria in New South Wales and now in Canberra. I refer to attempts by trade unions to prevent workers from earning a living unless they join a union. As you know compulsory unionism violates the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. I was astounded at your silence during the case of Barbara Biggs right in your own backyard in Melbourne particularly in view of your public statements about so-called violations of human rights at Aurukun and Mornington Island in Queensland. Barbara Biggs' rights were grossly violated despite a legal certificate of exemption and her treatment at the hands of the unions disgusted the nation. Now you have the chance to prove that you are genuine and not just the publicity-seeking hypocrites many people suspect. I assume you will be raising the case of the Parliament House  kitchenhand  when you take your seats in the very same building today. I await your reply with interest. 
From Joh Bjelke-Petersen, Premier of Queensland. 
I shall make just three points in answer to that extraordinary communication. The first is this: For the Queensland Premier to adopt a high moral tone on any question of human rights and to accuse anyone else of publicity seeking hyprocrisy in any context whatsoever is to demonstrate a capacity for sheer gall and effrontery which is unrivalled, I suggest, in the experience of any member of this chamber, as hardened as this chamber undoubtedly is to demonstrations of those qualities. The reality is that the condition of liberty in Queensland has assumed all the dimensions of a national scandal. Indeed, it is fast assuming the standing even of an international scandal which is deeply embarrassing both to the nation as a whole in international forums and even to the present Federal Government, not itself notoriously sensitive on matters of civil rights. 
The United Nations Human Rights Commission, which  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has had the temerity to call in aid on his own behalf, would, I suggest, be only too delighted to have an opportunity to scrutinise the state of liberty in  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  's own backyard and to consider not only the treatment of Aborigines in Aurukun and Mornington Island, which the Premier himself concedes to be at least controversial, but also the systematic denigration of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders generally in that State which is embodied in the legislation of that State which purports to govern the affairs of those people. It would be delighted to have the opportunity to consider the electoral gerrymander which, with the possible exception of Western Australia's, is probably the most spectacular in the present Western world. I am sure that it would like also an opportunity to consider the behaviour of the Queensland Police and those responsible for their administration in the succession of very well documented scandals which have occurred in that State in recent years. Above all, I suggest that the United Nations Human Rights Commission would be delighted to have, and would welcome with open arms, an opportunity to scrutinise against the international standards of the covenants and documents on human rights that symbolic centrepiece of everything that is most intolerable and offensive to democratic principles in that State. I am referring, of course, to the blanket ban on street demonstrations which celebrates its first unhappy anniversary this week. 
The second point I make is that it is just not true that I or my colleagues have remained silent on the Biggs conscientious objection affair or, for that matter, on the sordid affair of the parliamnentary kitchenhand which is currently the subject of discussion in this chamber. I do not know whether the Queensland Premier shares the inability or unwillingness of  Senator Withers  to read daily newspapers but I, for example, published quite a detailed statement of my views on the question of conscientious objection in Monday night's Melbourne  Herald.  This is not the occasion to state now in any detail that argument- I certainly hope to have the opportunity to do so before too many more sitting days are out- but I would put to the Senate that a perfectly reasoned argument, if indeed the Queensland Premier is susceptible to reasoned argument on this or any other topic, can be made in support of the unions' position in these recent controversies and, in particular, in support of the proposition that one does not have to abandon or compromise civil libertarian principles in order to support the general position which the unions have adopted. 
In essence, if I might try to summarise the matter very briefly, the position is that there is a difference- a very important and a very crucial difference- between an objection simpliciter on the one hand and a conscientious objection on the other. It is not just any old objection, however deep-seated or long-standing or vigourously it might have been held, which will satisfy the statutory description of a conscientious objection. The very notion of a conscientious objection implies that that objection is held on moral grounds. 
I will come to that matter, if the honourable senator will only wait, because that is one of the greatest problems in the way in which the legislation operates at the moment. I draw to the attention of the honourable senator that the certificate is not given by a court, it is not given after an opportunity for cross examination, it is not given after an opportunity for representation by competing viewpoints. That is one of the crucial problems. Let me get to that point firstly by saying that what matters in identifying a conscientious objection- God knows this has been recognised often enough in the national service cases which were only too relentlessly pursued by this Government in years gone by- is that one's conscience rebels against the imposition in question, not just one's intellect or one's taste buds. If I might assert it without going into it in detail now, there is no evidence that any such conditions or criteria were satisfied in the case of Miss Biggs. In fact, such public utterences as she put on record suggest entirely the contrary. 
The real objection of the unions is not to the existence of conscientious objection clauses as such in legislation. After all, such legislation was recognised and indeed introduced by the Labor Government between 1 972 and 1 975 under the ministerial leadership of  Mr Cameron.  The real objection of the unions consists of three points. The first is their inability to be represented before the Registrar or his delegate to put to the Registrar the competing evidence which, goodness knows, lay about in abundance in the case of Miss Biggs and to cross examine the applicant as to the sincerity, depth and durability of the beliefs that are being claimed. Secondly, the union's objection lies in the absence of any requirement that the Registrar state any reasoned grounds whatsoever for granting the exemption in question. It is just not known what irrational or perhaps rational considerations govern the decision in question. Thirdly, as I foreshadowed a moment ago in reply to an interjection by  Senator Baume,  the next ground of opposition is the absence of any right of appeal to either the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or the Federal Court of Australia to be able to test after the event the validity or otherwise of the Registrar's decision. 
To wind up, the last point that I make is this: The outburst of the Premier was not just intemperate, illogical and wrong headed- indeed extraordinarily so given the position and status which he occupies in our constitutional systembut it also raises, I would suggest, quite serious questions about the privileges of the members of this Parliament. It has long been recognised that intimidation of members of parliament in the exercise of their electoral and parliamentary duties is one of the most basic and central considerations giving rise to a breach of this Parliament's privilege. I would suggest that the tone, the flavour, the colour and the content of this extraordinary missive are such as to raise a prima facie possibility of a breach of privilege having been committed by the Queensland Premier. Accordingly,  Mr President,  I request that you study this document overnight with a view to this quite serious question of privilege being further considered by this chamber should you form the opinion, having considered the document, that there might be grounds for this chamber pursuing the matter further. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations agree with the statement on unemployment made by  Mr Street  in his contribution to the Budget debate in the other place last Thursday? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Taking another aspect of the Government's 'fair' 
Budget, is the Minister aware that the Government's Budget decision to tax lump sum payments for unused annual leave amounts to a retrospective tax which in effect will fine tens of thousands of Australian workers sums of the order of $1,000 or more each? Does he know that on most civil engineering projects of a major kind such as in my own State the Westgate Bridge, the Melbourne underground rail loop and the Dartmouth Dam it has been the normal practice over the years for the great majority of workers to defer and accumulate their annual leave? Is he aware that because of the comparatively short length of time of these projects those employed on them have no chance to build up long service leave entitlements and that saving annual leave is the only provision which they can make to tide them over until they can find new employment? Under these circumstances, will the Minister raise with the Treasurer the desirability of the Government reconsidering this tax, particularly because of its retrospective effect? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and concerns legal aid. Is it the case that the means test requirements now being applied by the Australian Legal Aid Office are so stringent that persons whose only income is a Commonwealth pension or benefit are now regularly being denied ALAO assistance? Is it also the case that, notwithstanding this state of affairs, ALAO offices around the country remain desperately short of funds? In the case of Victoria, for example, the allocation for September in fact ran out by the 14th of the month and by the end of this month the Victorian office will have earmarked, if not actually spent, the whole of its October allocation and a proportion of its November allocation as well. Is it further the case that one of the major drains on funds has proved to be the separate representation of children in Family Court proceedings, as directed by judges of that court in the exercise of their powers under the Family Law Act? If the answer to any of those questions is in the affirmative, I ask: What steps, if any, is the Government proposing to remedy urgently this financial crisis? Will the reduction of lawyers' fees by a further 5 per cent or 10 per cent, as proposed recently by the Attorney-General, make any significant difference to the overall dimensions of the financial crisis? At the very least, will the Government consider making an urgent separate allocation of funds to cover the Family Law Act cases to which I have referred specifically? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Given the events of recent days, will the Government consider printing its Budget Papers in future in a loose-leaf format? 
I simply confirm what the Minister has said. The amendment now before the Committee very satisfactorily meets the substance of the objection to Clause 7 that  Senator Cavanagh  and I had. I am grateful to the Minister and the Government for acceding to our suggestions. I only hope that they will be as flexible and sensitive in the future when issues of this kind, particularly involving the liberty of the subject, are raised. 
by leave- I rise as a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances to emphasise the seriousness of the matters raised by the Committee in that major part of its report to which  Senator Missen  addressed the preponderance of his remarks, namely, that part concerning undertakings made by Ministers to amend regulations and ordinances, which undertakings are not then expeditiously honoured. It is something of an understatement to say, as the Committee does in paragraph 5 of its report, that a highly unsatisfactory situation arises when undertakings by Ministers are not carried out promptly and expeditiously. This situation is more than just unsatisfactory. It cuts a swath through the operations of this Committee and it makes nonsense of the watchdog role not only of this House but also of the Parliament as a whole. If, on the basis of a ministerial undertaking to amend, the Committee either does not issue a notice of disallowance or allows such a notice to lapse, then the situation is, as  Senator Missen  pointed out, that after 15 sitting days both the Committee and the 
Senate itself are rendered quite impotent against the Executive. The Committee, the Senate and the Parliament as a whole are obliged to wait upon the Executive's pleasure. Years may transpire before the situation is corrected and the citizens affected by the regulations or ordinances in question are no longer at risk. 
That this is a matter of concern which justifies the specific attention of the Senate is demonstrated by the figures which were adverted to by  Senator Missen  and which are set out in the attachment on page 9 of the report. As  Senator Missen  said, the figures show that the outstanding undertakings as at the present date number seven, two of which date back to 1975, one to 1976, two to last year and two to earlier this year. In passing, I mention that the prospect of these matters being reported to the Senate does seem to do at least something to concentrate wonderfully the mind of the Executive, because as recently as one month ago the number of outstanding undertakings was, in fact, eleven. There has been some quick footwork on the part of some departments to catch up, but the situation is still quite bad in some other departments. 
To illustrate just what can happen, I shall spend just a few moments discussing one of the still outstanding undertakings which is the subject matter of this report. I refer to the  Vh  yeartwo government-four Minister saga of the ACT Court of Petty Sessions Ordinance which is referred to in summary form in paragraph 4 (i) of the report. The question first came before the Committee in December 1 974 in the form of a proposed amendment to the ACT Motor Traffic Ordinance. On the surface, it was a simple and innocuous enough provision providing for the reservation of certain traffic lanes for what were described as 'priority vehicles', including particular local buses, and making it an offence for other ordinary vehicles to drive on such reserved priority lanes. 
What attracted the attention of the Committee at that time, however, was that the ordinance reversed the normal onus of proof to the extent that it made this offence, in the first instance, quite absolute and only then did it set out certain defences upon which the defendant could rely; for example, the defence that travelling in the reserved lane was necessary in order to avoid a collision. The Committee took the view that the situation was capable of remedy without completely tearing apart the subject matter of the regulation in question and at the same time preserving its basic policy. It could be remedied and the rights of defendants could be preserved to a much greater extent simply by amending another ordinance, the Court of Petty Sessions Ordinance, so as to allow a defendant in these circumstances to file a notice on oath of any such defence on which he proposed to rely and so that the prosecution could, before actually proceeding to take the matter to trial, in fact consider the terms of the defence in question and not put the defendant at risk of having to rely on such a defence in order to extricate himself at trial. So the Committee took a considered position on this and in December 1974 wrote to the then Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  making this proposal. At the same time a notice of disallowance of the regulation in question was given by the Committee in order to preserve the status quo pending the reply from the Minister. 
In March 1975- four months later- the then new Attorney-General,  Mr Enderby,  replied to the Committee agreeing in principle to amend the ordinance as suggested. That was followed up by a further letter from the Attorney-General on 5 April 1975 with a specific proposal to amend the particular ordinance in its pleabypost provisions. On 10 April 1975 the Committee wrote back to the Attorney-General agreeing to the withdrawal of the notice of motion for disallowance on the basis of that ministerial assurance, namely that the amendment in question would be made. In the following week the 15-day period expired so disallowance no longer became an option for the Committee. 
This all happened back in April 1975. Until then the matter had proceeded reasonably expeditiously. The sequence of events so far is not in any sense the subject of complaint or objection by the Committee. It was after the disallowance period and whilst this ministerial undertaking was on foot that the rot set in. The subsequent  Vh  years have constituted a quite extraordinary chapter of evasion, indifference, resistance and neglect on the part of the executive departments concerned. Let me outline briefly just how I can justify those assertions. 
It is not as if the Committee acted precipitately in order to resolve the situation. Nearly a year later, on 26 February 1976, the then  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Wood,  wrote to yet another new Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott,  requesting that he carry out the undertaking that had been made by  Mr Enderby  nearly a year earlier. That was the subject of a formal acknowledgement a few days later. On 26 August 1976, the Committee again wrote to  Mr Ellicott  seeking a substantive reply to its February letter, and that was greeted with no response whatsoever. On 6 December 1976 the Committee again wrote to  Mr Ellicott,  again seeking a substantive reply to its query back in February, and again that met with no response whatsoever, either formal or substantive. Nearly a year later again, on 22 September 1977, the Committee, yet again demonstrating quite extraordinary patience under the circumstances, wrote to  Senator Durack,  yet another new Attorney-General, drawing attention to the sequence of events in terms which still represented fairly marked restraint on the part of the Committee. It is time that the Committee indicated some testiness insofar as it said that it considered that the failure of the Department to reply to the communication a year and a half earlier, in February 1976, 'indicates either gross inefficiency or discourtesy on the part of your Department '. 
On 4 October 1977- a few days later- the Committee was at last treated to something in the nature of a substantive reply. This came from  Senator Durack.  It was in the following terms: 'I have now had an opportunity to look at the matter for myself. I think there is a fundamental difficulty in what has been previously proposed. ' He then went on to say that the proposed procedure recommended by the Committee and accepted by  Mr Enderby  would apply only in relation to summonses served by post rather than those served personally. As a result the original proposal of the Committee needed some reconsideration to close that loophole. That was the substance of the reply. Under the circumstances, a fair enough point was made. One simply wonders, and the Committee at the time wondered, why on earth that point had not been raised a long time before. 
The Minister also said in his letter of 4 October 1977 that he would take the matter up with the Minister for the Capital Territory and in the meantime- and this is important- he would seek to ensure that charges were not brought under the regulation. The Committee had no substantive objection to that part of the letter. In all of the circumstances it seemed quite a reasonable response to the events. The difficulty, however, is that this reply was sent in October 1 977 and since then absolutely nothing has happened to affect the ordinance in question and to make the changes that are required. 
The only thing that has happened is that, notwithstanding the statement by the Minister that he would seek to ensure that no charges were laid under this ordinance, charges have been laid and people have been convicted. There is one specific case that came to the attention of the Committee in the form of a rather indignant letter by a Canberra citizen,  Mr Ian  Irvine. He wrote to the Committee in May this year enclosing a summons for a breach of the offence in question. The summons was issued on 5 May this year- seven months, it will be noted, after the ministerial undertaking to ensure that no charges would be laid. This letter from  Mr Irvine  referred to the Committee's recommendation that the ordinance be changed and also to the fact that no action had taken place in the period of over three years since that recommendation had been made.  Mr Irvine  said in his letter- and one can understand his cry of pain: 
I am now in the perilous position of having to establish my innocence subject to the handicaps described in your report. 
Despite the Committee immediately taking the matter up with  Senator Durack,  the AttorneyGeneral, in a letter dated 1 1 May and getting a reply from him which did not even advert to this particular circumstance, the prosecution went ahead and  Mr Irvine  was convicted and fined. I am advised that a number of other such convictions have taken place. 
The most recent exchange in this matter took place just a month or so ago when the Committee wrote, in August 1978, again to the Minister, advising him that it proposed to bring before the full Senate this failure to honour the undertaking and to ask him what on earth was going on. In the Minister's reply of 19 September- the last communication we have had from him- he said that he and his Department now took the view that the whole matter should be resubmitted to the Committee for its reconsideration and that he expected to be able to write to us on behalf of both himself and the Minister for the Capital Territory 'very soon '. 
I suggest to the Senate that this case- it is only one of the number of cases that are mentioned in the report that is now before the Senatedemonstrates, with gravity and clarity, just how serious this situation has become. It is not denied, in the context of the particular matter to which I have drawn attention, that, as the AttorneyGeneral will no doubt tell this House when he gets a chance, this matter had its tricky procedural and technical aspects and it may well have been that the original recommendation of the Committee did need some reconsideration and some minor modification to make the protection contemplated fully effective. However much allowance one makes for this matter, however much the Executive representatives might weave, twist and turn on this matter, the reality is that the history that I have retailed has been absolutely disgraceful. It fully justifies the stance which has been taken by this Committee. 
The Regulations and Ordinances Committee just cannot function effectively as the watchdog of the Senate and the Parliament on these matters if it is subjected to this kind of treatment. The language which was employed by the Committee in paragraph 5 of its report and which  Senator Missen  read out, namely, 'unless the situation is improved the Committee will be less ready to accept undertakings which cannot be carried out before the time for disallowance is past', is extremely moderate in all the circumstances. I hope that, notwithstanding the moderation of that message, its content will not be either misunderstood or ignored by the Executive in the future. For far too long the Executive has taken advantage of the Committee's courtesy on these matters and has behaved with complete indifference not only to the Committee and the Parliament which it represents but also to the rights of the people who are affected by these matters. This situation just cannot and will not be tolerated in future by the Committee. I hope and trust that the Senate will give its full support to the stance which the Committee has taken. 
I join with Opposition speakers in supporting the Government's position on this Bill and would wish to make only four brief points to that effect. The first is that if the Government is going to be scraping the bottom of the barrel for revenueraising purposes, then this is as non-regressive a flat rate tax as perhaps it is possible to imagine, since the burden of it will fall, almost by definition, on those who are capable of paying it. So that strategy is understood and appreciated and supported. The second point I wish to make is that made at substantially greater length, particularly by  Mr Cohen  in the other place during the second reading debate on this Bill, and that is that it is a pity that the Bill does not earmark the revenue derived from this legislation specifically for the funding of the development of tourist resorts and facilities. If we are serious about creating new employment opportunities in this country, given the present state of crisis of which we are all aware, then it is obvious that the tertiary sector is going to have to take up a great deal of the slack, and in particular, the tourism industry within that sector. It would have been hoped that if this kind of tax were to be imposed, it would be accompanied by a more specific and extensive commitment by this Government, perhaps of an equivalent dollar sum, to expend money directly on employment generating projects. 
The third point I wish to make is that the sum of $10 that is to be imposed under the Departure Tax Bill is not, as many speakers have said, an insubstantial sum, particularly by comparison with such taxes imposed elsewhere. It is the kind of sum and the amount of money which may in fact quite often create difficulties for departing travellers in finding it. I think particularly of people who are on their way home from somewhere, with the Australian stopover representing their last port of call. I make this point with particular feeling because, to this day, I still cringe with the embarrassment which I personally experienced back in 1965 when I was obliged to stop over for three days between planes in Tahiti on my way back home from a student exchange visit to the United States. That trip was funded, incidentally, by the State Department and there could never have been a less justified expenditure of moneys so far as that Department was concerned, because I went over as a luke-warm supporter of the Vietnam war and came back a much better informed and thoroughly vigorous opponent of it. 
Be that as it may, as I said, I stopped over in Tahiti between planes, there being no opportunity for a through flight. Being an impecunious student, I had the grand sum of something like $25 in my pocket to sustain me for those three days. I managed to budget very carefully by staying in a thoroughly squalid little hotel behind the notorious Quinn 's Bar with which those honourable senators who read Somerset Maugham will undoubtedly be familiar. It is the same bar where it is said that the ladies have the blackest eyes in the South Pacific, albeit for pugilistic rather than genetic reasons. By dint of careful exercise of this kind, I did manage to spread out my $25 so that I had something like 20c in my pocket as I approached the airport for the last leg of the trip home, only to discover that my departure from the country was contingent upon my producing the sum of $US5. That created not merely a sense of embarrassment on my part, but something of a diplomatic crisis with two or three consulates being involved, the plane in question being delayed for two or three hours and the situation being resolved only by my signing statutory declarations, notarised by the appropriate French professionals. The whole thing was a rather sordid and embarrassing affair. 
It may be that not many people will treat Australia as a stopover point to anywhere else in this same way, although I suppose one can anticipate the prospect of New Zealanders about to face once again the rigors of their homeland, spending most of their money in a last minute revel in Sydney or wherever. So the situation could arise and I simply make the point, arising out of that, that it is important that intending travellers to Australia be made very well aware of the existence of this tax and the necessity for their being able to find the relevant wherewithal. 
It may well be that such administrative arrangements with the relevant departments and the relevant airlines and shipping authorities are in hand and have already been contemplated. I note also that the Bill does contain provision whereby arrangements can be made by the Minister or presumably his delegate, with respect to subsequent payment of the amount in question. I hope that that particular provision of the legislation would be rather sensitively exercised in practice if situations of the kind I have mentioned did in fact arise. 
The final point I would make about this Bill relates to some of the procedural provisions in the Departure Tax Collection Bill. No doubt it would be more appropriate to raise these points at the Committee stage of the Bill, but there is one in particular which I think does justify mention because it raises a large question of principle about which, I submit, the Government ought to be more sensitive. It is the averment provision which is contained in clause 13 of this Bill, whereby the defendant is obliged to satisfy the prosecution in proceedings of an offence under this legislation of his non-committal of the offence in question rather than the prima facie onus of proof being in fact upon the Crown. 
These are provisions which are most unhappy in principle. It is my suggestion and that of the Opposition that they ought to be used only on very rare occasions where they are specifically justified, for example, by such considerations as the fact that the state of mind in question or the motivation in question can be known only to the person who was charged with the offence. That is one kind of situation in which it might be justifiable in principle to adopt the reverse onus procedure of this kind. I am unable to see that there are anything other than the most bald administrative considerations which lie behind this particular clause and I hope that this is a question to which the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  will be able to direct attention, if not in her reply at this stage of the Bill, at least at the Committee stage. 
I wish to pursue further the matter of the averment clause, not so much in respect of any matter of detail, which I think was  Senator Cavanagh  's primary concern, but rather in respect of the central issue of principle as to whether an averment clause is necessary or appropriate in legislation such as this. I would like the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to answer specifically the following questions in respect of this provision. Does the Government agree, generally speaking, that averment clauses are repugnant to the principle that the onus of proof in a prosecution should remain throughout on the prosecutor? Secondly, does the Government agree that such clauses, if they are to be used at all, should be confined to a very narrow range of situations? For example, those situations in which the matter in issue is peculiarly within the knowledge of the defendant and thus by its very character it is very difficult for the prosecution to adduce evidence. Thirdly, is the present situation really one of those relating to those cases in which an averment clause might be justified? Is not the matter in issue here squarely one of objectively ascertainable fact, namely, the payment or nonpayment of the tax in question? Under those circumstances, can the averment clause be justified? Will the Government reconsider its position on this clause in this legislation? 
I have a second matter that I wish to raise. I do not know whether the Minister would prefer to respond now to the questions on clause 13, but I do wish to raise some further matters in respect of clause 7. 
-I had wished to say something further about clause 7. Since  Senator Cavanagh  has addressed himself to that clause, maybe I could conclude my remarks on it at this stage. As  Senator Cavanagh  said, clause 7(1) (a) and (b) confers a fairly awesome power on the officer in question because if he is not satisfied that any tax payable in respect of the departure of the person has been paid or will be paid, he can take such steps as he considers necessary to prevent departure. So there is a question of the physical liberty and freedom of movement of the subject involved here. A serious question accordingly arises as to the criteria which the Bill states on the basis of which the officer in question can make his decision. It is to be noticed that it is only required by the Bill that the officer be subjectively not satisfied. What matters is the officer's state of mind. It is enough that he be not satisfied. 
In the terms of the Bill it is not stated that he be not satisfied on reasonable grounds or that there be no grounds for his being reasonably satisfied that the tax has been paid. That is in contradistinction, it is to be noted, with the terminology in paragraph (a) where it is required, not simply that he believe that a person is about to depart from Australia, but that he had reasonable grounds for believing that. I put it to the Minister that it is appropriate that that element of objectivity, that element of reasonableness, about his satisfaction be incorporated in the crucial part of the provision, namely, paragraph (b). Exactly the same point can be made with respect to the remaining part of the clause, that is, the provision that I read out a moment ago that the officer, if he is so satisfied, may take such steps as he considers necessary. 
It does not state that the steps that he takes are what he considers necessary on reasonable grounds, nor what he reasonably considers necessary; it is simply what he subjectively considers necessary. There is no objective criterion against which any deprivation of liberty which the officer in question might be minded to impose can either at the time or after the event be tested by any court. It is left entirely within his subjective discretion. I urge quite strenuously that the Minister give really serious consideration to the possibility of making minor modifications- that is all that is required- to those two provisions so as to incorporate an objective criterion of reasonableness, so that the judgment of the officer in question can be tested objectively. I suggest that this would not in any way undermine any policy consideration underlying this clause, nor would it undermine the practical administrative operation of the Bill. But it is a useful and important safeguard to incorporate, given the quite serious and significant powers that are vested in the officer in question and the possibility of their being misused. Perhaps the officer in question might act with the best and most genuine will in the world, but he may make an error of judgment and his behaviour would not objectively stand up to scrutiny. I urge the Minister to incorporate those amendments in that provision. 
-I support the reference of the Freedom of Information Bill and the associated Archives Bill to the Senate Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs, of which I am a member. I acknowledge at the outset, however, that it may be with some alarm that supporters of freedom of information legislation view the prospect of the referral of these Bills to yet another committee. The history of the Freedom of Information Bill has after all been littered with the devoted attention of committees, albeit not parliamentary committees and what unsatisfactory history it has so far been. 
When the original initiative was taken and the commitment made to introduce freedom of information legislation by the Whitlam Labor Government the matter was referred, as I suppose is inevitable whenever the Public Service sees its institutional interests immediately involved, to an interdepartmental committee of public servants. A peculiarly heavy committee it was, with representatives from the AttorneyGeneral's Department, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Treasury, the Department of the Special Minister of State, the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Public Service Board. As is so often the case, one regrets, with the Executive branch generally, however, it could not be said that that first committee approached its task in any precipitate fashion. It was formed in June 1973 and reported in December 1974, with its deliberations in between proceeding with all the exhilarating pace of flowing molasses, producing at the end of that period of nearly two years just 1 8 double-spaced pages of typescript representing, one might calculate, an average output of two paragraphs per month. 
After the unceremonious dispatch of the Whitlam Government in 1975 the matter was taken up again by the Fraser Government. I readily concede, and I am grateful, that the Government did just that, and it deserves credit for not letting that matter be buried along with so many others.  Mr Ellicott,  as AttorneyGeneral, referred the matter to a second interdepartmental committee in April 1976. The report on which the present Bill is very largely based emerged some eight months later in December 1976, the increased intensity of effort being reflected this time by a substantially lengthier and more detailed document, representing in fact an output of something like 12 pages per month over this period. Regrettably, however, that greater intensity of effort did not result in any more sensitive appreciation of the kind of legislation that is needed if freedom of information legislation is to justify that name. 
It has been said, and said rather nicely, that committees are cul-de-sacs to which good ideas are lured and quietly strangled. In the two IDCs however, it can be said that the freedom of information idea was not just strangled but in fact bludgeoned into insensibility, then garrotted and drawn and quartered for good measure. Whilst the present Freedom of Information Bill does not mirror exactly the terms of that second IDC report- it is only to be expected, I suppose, that there would be some modification when it took a further 18 months for that IDC report to be transmitted into the present legislation, which was introduced in June this year- certainly it can be said that the Bill preserves the spirit of that 1976 committee. Without wishing to be excessively uncharitable about it, what I mean essentially by that is that it incorporated all the meanspirited, obsessive preoccupation with secrecy and traditions of non-disclosure that Westminister style governments and their bureaucracies have spent centuries perfecting. There are some obviously good things in the Bill as it presently stands, especially its quite explicit commitment to the immediate general release of those departmental manuals and guideline documents which govern the exercise of so many discretions which directly affect the rights and obligations of citizens. 
I hasten to add that, unlike the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack),  in his remarks earlier this evening, I by no means completely prejudge the terms of the Bill, because that after all is the function of the committee of which I am a member. But by and large the Bill is at best, to any objective observer, a very grave disappointment and, at worst, an absolutely counterproductive travesty of everything that freedom of information legislation is supposed to be about. It is these considerations, which I will endeavour to elaborate and briefly justify in just a moment, which justify the referral- in fact, demand the referral- of this Bill to a standing committee of the Senate, notwithstanding the further degree of delay that this will obviously involve. 
It is crucially necessary that this Parliament and, through it, the community at large be given the detailed opportunity which this reference affords to give the Bill the fullest possible scrutiny, not just from the cautious, protective perspective of the Executive and the Public Service itself, but also from the perspective of those who are dedicated to making Australian government, whatever party is in power, more open, more responsive and more attractive to the people it is supposed to serve. I believe that the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, whilst it does contain among its members, including especially  Senator Missen  and myself, senators who have been publicly and vigorously critical of the Bill as it stands, will approach this Bill constructively and with a full appreciation of the difficulties and sensitivities that are involved in meshing it in with our system of government. We will certainly be anxious to canvass fully and listen to the views of those, especially within the Government and the Public Service, who support the Bill unequivocally in its present form as well as, of course, those who are critical of it. I imagine, as  Senator Missen  has said, that our inquiries in that respect will take us considerably far afield. 
But it remains true that I for one will take considerable persuading that the Bill in its present form is the best possible compromise between these competing demands, which I recognise, of open government on the one hand and necessary confidentiality on the other. Let me take the opportunity to put some of the doubts that I have on the record, particularly in order that this may afford some assistance to those who are contemplating making submissions to the Committee on this matter. Generally speaking, I remain quite unpersuaded at the outset that there is any special institutional character or quality about the Westminister style system of responsible government, which we have inherited, and which from time to time we have observed, which makes secrecy either more or less essential to its practical operation than to any other system of government. 
More specifically, there are at least ten basic defects which I, as presently advised, perceive in the Bill and in respect of which I for one will require very considerable persuasion- certainly more persuasion than the Attorney-General has offered in his little public relations pamphlet which has been so widely circulated in recent weeks- before I can accept the proposals with anything like equanimity. Let me briefly indicate what those objections are and put them on record. In the first place, with only minor exceptions, the Bill will apply only to documents which are created after it comes into operation as an Act. Every past record and every document presently in existence, subject to those exceptions, will be entirely immune from scrutiny. It may well be, as the Attorney-General has said, that there is a very real constraint in terms of staff resources involved in making everything in existence simultaneously accessible. But I just cannot believe that the scope of operation of this Bill is to be as narrow in this respect as it presently is. 
Secondly, the Bill as it stands contains a provision whereby the Governor-General can by regulation wholly or partly exempt any government authority- I emphasise the words 'any government authority'- from the operation of the Act. I suggest that this temptation may quite often be difficult for the Executive to resist. It may well be also in this respect that the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee, which is charged, of course, with the task of passing upon and recommending to the Senate the validity or desirability of these regulations, will, given the relatively limited scope of that Commute 's charter, be a somewhat uncertain buttress against a misuse of that power. As presently advised, I would wish to see it more narrowly confined. Thirdly, if a Minister thinks that disclosure of a document would prejudice national security, defence, international relations or what are described as relations between the Commonwealth and any State, he can, as the Bill now stands, conclusively determine that it should remain secret. No appeal lies to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal or anywhere else against his decision. These defence, security and foreign affairs gateways are in themselves bad enough. But the exemption for Federal-State relations leaves one almost speechless. 
Government senators- Ha! ha! 
Honourable senators will notice that I paused for at least three or four seconds even before those guffaws from the back bench. I am only for the moment guessing at the figures, but I would suspect that in a closely integrated Federal system like ours, certainly no less than one-third and probably closer to onehalf of all the business that is transacted by the Commonwealth Government could fairly be regarded as being directly or indirectly involving the States. As such, it would appear that that exemption is manifestly on its face too widely drawn. 
Fourthly, apart from Cabinet and Executive Council documents which are also absolutely exempt under the Bill as it now stands, the Bill spells out a further 1 1 general grounds of exemption which can be relied upon by officials unless and until they are overturned on appeal by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The number of exemptions is not by itself obviously conclusive of anything, as the Attorney-General points out in a peculiarly facile passage of his little public relations pamphlet. What matters, of course, is what those exemptions state and how widely or narrowly each of them is drawn. Whilst some of those exemptions are perfectly sensible and perfectly appropriate- for example, those in relation to documents affecting personal privacy or trade secrets- I suggest that most of them are indefensible on their face or much too widely, even intolerably widely, drawn. I instance especially in this respect trie exception in respect of internal working documents as outlined in clause 26 of the Bill, even given the extended definition and -the public interest qualification provided in respect of such documents. 
Fifthly, anyone seeking access to a document has to be able to describe under the Bill as it stands what he wants with reasonable precision. Perhaps that is fair enough in order to avoid departmental resources being wasted in vague fishing expeditions. But there is nothing in the 
Bill which in so many words requires proper, detailed indexes to be prepared such as would enable such a reasonably precise identification in fact to be made. I suggest that that represents a classic Catch 22 situation. 
Sixthly, the seeker of information who leaps into the fray undeterred so far by any of these considerations still has to confront a litter of procedural and discretionary obstacles. For example, requests for information may be refused if they interfere unreasonably with the operations of the agency. Clause 13 of the Bill deals with this matter. Disclosure can be deferred where it is reasonable to do so in the public interest or having regard to normal and proper administrative practices. That is the language used in clause 19. Seventhly, the Bill will certainly do little, or nothing on its face, to disturb the languid pace at which the Australian Public Service normally proceeds in these matters, to which I have already drawn attention in another context, in that agencies have up to two months to respond to requests for information. I ask honourable senators to compare this with the situation in the United States of America where an agency is obliged to respond initially to any request within 10 working days. I suggest that such a provision is crucial if the legislation is to have any use at all in respect of matters of current public interest. The Bill, as it stands, can hardly be described as a working journalist's charter. 
Eighthly, seekers after the truth will have no be not only thick skinned but also, it seems, well heeled. The Bill provides for search, inspection and copying fees to be charged. There is no explicit provision, as there is in the United States legislation, for waiver of those fees when information is sought, for example, in the public interest. Moreover, if a citizen appeals to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal against a denial of information, he has to bear his own legal costs whether or not the appeal is successful. Those costs will not be insubstantial. The Administrative Appeals Tribunal is not, in my personal experience, a tribunal which deals briskly with the merits of matters in an informal way. 
If the Attorney-General's generosity in this respect is as great as his confidence in the merits of this Bill, that would be an entirely appropriate course of action to pursue. 
The costs, as I say, will not be insubstantial because when legal interpretation matters are involved before the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, that Tribunal acts very legalistically. In my experience of appearances before the Tribunal- I say this with no disrespect whatsoever to its judicial members- it operates with about as much legal informality as a cross between the High Court of Australia and the Privy Council. 
Ninthly, the Bill does nothing to reform or, on its face, to force any review of the present security classifications system which can allow myopic officials armed with secrecy stamps to perform quite heroic feats of concealment on often perfectly innocent documents. Of course I am aware, in deference again to the Attorney-General's public relations pamphlet, that there is in the Bill no direct reference to, or adoption of, any present security classification system in the Bill. But it does not take much imagination to anticipate that officials applying the defence and national security exemptions in the Bill will in practice be very likely to take over much, if not all, of the existing guideline apparatus. The sin of the Bill here is not so much one of commission as of omission. My present reaction to the Bill- of course I always stand capable of correction in the light of the evidence which the Committee will be receiving- is that it should contain specific provisions, or that there should be specific undertakings in this respect, accompanying the introduction of this Bill, to produce a new security classification which is as unrestricted as is reasonably possible. 
Tenthly, and finally, the Bill does not, in terms of its practical operation, throw the onus of justification where it should be- that is on the official who would refuse access. The system in the United States is that there are far fewer officials with the authority to withhold information than there are who can grant it. In fact it is a disciplinary offence in that country to capriciously withhold such information. By comparison, the proposed Australian system will limit the authority to disclose to a small group of senior officers, and in that respect I refer to clause 21. Other officials not only will be unable to disclose even non-exempt documents but will also face up to two years in gaol if they do so under the long-standing draconic provisions of section 70 of the Crimes Act, which again this Bill does nothing to correct. 
My real worry about the Bill is not so much that it will not on the face of it do much to improve the present system. In politics one gets used to that kind of disappointment. Rather, and this is the justification above all for referring it to a committee at this stage, it might well make matters a good deal worse by institutionalising and reinforcing such barriers as presently exist in the system. Refusals of information, which are now simply explained by factors such as timidity or sheer unco-operative bloody-mindedness on the part of officials, in the future will have all the force and status of an Act of Parliament behind them. 
It is possible to produce good tough freedom of information legislation which will balance the rights and interests of the community generally against the necessary demands of government, and I am confident that this is what will be recommended by the Committee. All that is necessary to produce good legislation is a demonstration by the Executive of a little bit of moral courage and political will- the moral courage and the political will to strip away some of those convenient shelters behind which Ministers and their officials have for so long found it comfortable to hide. I hope that the Government, by its decision to allow the reference of this Bill to the Committee, at last is demonstrating some of that courage and some of that will which has been conspicuously lacking in the last few years. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Government aware of how much taxation revenue it loses through the use of family trusts? If so, what was the estimated loss last year? If it is not aware of the amount lost, is it doing anything to discover what the loss to revenue is? If the 
Government is as concerned as the Treasurer says it is about the loss of revenue it suffers through tax dodging, why has it done nothing about such abuses as occur through the use of family trusts? Is it because so many Government members use this device for tax dodging purposes? Has  Senator Carrick  himself ever made use of such a family trust arrangement? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
Has the Attorney-General's Department ever published an annual report; if so, when; if not what are the reasons for this policy. 
Has the question of publication by the AttorneyGeneral's Department of an annual report been under consideration by his Department at any time since 1 972; if so, to what extent. 
Is the question of publication by his Department of an annual report currently under consideration by him or his Department. 
Will he give consideration to making a statement on this subject to the Senate during this period of sittings. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1 ) Has the Australian National Group yet made its choice of candidates for election to the International Court of Justice; if so, who are the candidates; if not, when will the decision be made, and will the Attorney-General make the names public immediately. 
What advice did the Foreign Affairs Department give the Group concerning possible nominees. 
Did the Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department, who is a member of the Group, consult with him about the Group's nomination. 
-These Bills bring to a final and formal close that dishonest, cynical charade which the Fraser Government has been playing with the Australian people on income tax matters over the past 12 months. Who could forget the fanfare with which the Fraser Government foreshadowed its substantial tax cuts in the August 1977 Budget? Who could forget the fanfare with which it promised again in the 1977 general election campaign to introduce massive tax cuts? This was accompanied, it will be remembered, by an advertising campaign which, as subsequent events have shown, was perhaps the most blatantly and unselfconsciously dishonest advertising campaign in Australia's political history? Who could forget the way in which the Government finally summoned up its political courage actually to implement for once some of these promises. I take it that that was the phenomenon which  Senator Messner  had in mind when he called it 'bravery' when in February 1978 the Government actually delivered some of these long foreshadowed tax cuts. 
But who, remembering all that fanfare, can now overlook the sheer brazen effrontery and gall with which those tax reductions are now being absolutely and completely swept away, by the August Budget now embodied in these Bills before the chamber, for the overwhelming majority of Australian taxpayers, particularly those towards the lower end of the scale? Who can fail to note the way in which every tax initiative which this Government takes, whether to make tax reductions or to take them away again, is inequitable, regressive and redistributive from the poor to the rich? When the original tax cuts were granted those people at the top end of the tax scale benefited the most, as is always the case with this Government. If a person is right at the top of the tax scale with an income of the order of $2,000 a week his tax saving would have been worth $1 12 a week. If a person received average weekly earnings of $200 a week, he scored a mere $3 out of those tax cuts. What an awful disappointment it must have been for those people who were taken in by the fistful of advertised dollars in that last November-December general election campaign. 
Now the tax cuts are being taken away again by this legislation. Again, it is legislation which operates regressively and inequitably so that, as always, it is the poor who will lose most. If a person is earning around $200 a week he will lose every cent of the tax cuts he was previously granted. But if he is right up at the very top of the tax scale and earning $2, 000-odd a week he will keep a full $62 out of that $1 12 a week I mentioned which came to him as a result of the February tax cuts. 
The central feature of this legislation before us is the so-called  Vi  per cent surcharge which it imposes across the board. It is not sufficiently appreciated I think that even this rather evenhanded sounding provision- 1  lA  per cent across the board- is a thoroughly regressive provision. What is in issue is not 1  Vi  per cent of tax paid for everybody, without exception; rather, what is being added by this legislation is 1  xh  percentage points to each of the separate rates at which people are taxed, such that at the base rate of 32 per cent, which goes up to 33  Vi  per cent, the actual increase- the increase of the tax a person will now pay compared with what he was paying before- will be 4.7 per cent. 
On the middle rate, which goes up from 46 per cent to 47V4 per cent, the actual increase will be 3.3 per cent. At the top of the range, at the rate of 60 per cent, which goes up to 6 1  lA  per cent, the real increase will be 2.5 per cent. I hope that it will not have escaped notice that, once again, those figures are regressive- 4.7 per cent at the lower rate down to 2.5 per cent at the top of the range. If a person is at the bottom of the pile he will stay there, lose more and pay more than if he is at the top of the pile. Like everything about this Government's performance and its tax legislation in particular, these provisions are unfair, regressive and thoroughly inequitable. 
I turn from the general aspects of this set of income tax provisions to some of the particular matters on which this Government is especially vulnerable. The first matter to which I wish to draw attention is one specific aspect of the operation of this  Vh  per cent surcharge. I refer to an aspect of it which so far, to my knowledge, has received practically no attention at all. That is something for which the Government ought to be exceedingly grateful because I point out that what it does is amount to a fiddle of rather spectacular proportions. What I am referring to is the operation of this surcharge in the calculation of provisional tax. Provisional tax is simply that class of income tax which is paid by income earners who receive their income otherwise than by wages or salaries. 
The basis of provisional tax is that it is payable in each year by reference to the income that one earned in the previous year, with the amount that is paid being subject to adjustment later in the light of the income that is actually received when the final calculation is possible. The payers of provisional tax are by no means confined to higher income earners. What matters in defining liability for provisional tax is not the amount of one's income but rather its source- as I said, whether the income comes from wages and salaries on the one hand or from other sources on the other hand. In fact, provisional income taxpayers extend right across the income spectrum. 
The Government's intention in respect of the application of the surcharge to provisional tax payments, as it was stated in both the Budget Speech and in the second reading speeches for these Bills, was to take into account in the calculation of provisional tax for 1978-79 the increase of  Vi  per cent in the standard tax rates for 1978-79. On the face of it, there is nothing whatsoever that is objectionable about that proposition. There is no reason, certainly in principle, to treat provisional taxpayers any differently from the way any other class of taxpayer is treated. But I suggest to this Parliament that, whatever the stated intention of the Government might have been, this is not the real intention of the Government as appears in the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill'(No. 2). 
On the face of this legislation, what the Government is about is the extraction from provisional taxpayers of very much larger sums of money than will be paid by ordinary nonprovisional taxpayers. I suggest further that the only possible purpose for this exercise is artificially to inflate government revenue for this finacial year, thereby, by yet another means, to conceal the real extent of the deficit which this Government will be accumulating. 
How does this situation come about? It comes about as follows: The actual rates of tax applicable for everybody in 1978-79, if this legislation goes through- of course, I hope it will not- will be calculated by reference to rates as they stood at the end of 1 977-78, the last financial year, plus the  Vh  per cent surcharge. It will be remembered that the tax rates at the end of 1977-78 were in fact lower than those which prevailed for most of last financial year as a result of the February tax cuts to which I have referred. That is how the actual rate that everybody has to pay is calculated. We begin with the rate as it stood at the end of 1977-78 and add the  Vh  per cent surcharge. But it seems that provisional tax is not to be calculated on this basis; rather it is to be calculated on an idiosyncratic, eccentric, strange little basis of its own- a basis which bears no direct relationship to the actual rates that will be payable this year by everyone else, indeed, ultimately by provisional taxpayers as well. 
The provisional tax calculation will begin not with the rate that was paid by everyone at the end of 1977-78, but rather with the rate that was paid over the whole of 1977-78. That is the rate- I am simplifying a very technical matter as much as I can- which was averaged out on a composite basis for the whole year, taking into account the ups as well as the downs in the tax rate for that year. Then, added to that, is 1.5 per cent of the income above a specified minimum sum which was actually received by provisional tax payers in the last financial year, 1 977-78. As a result of this calculation provisional tax will be levied this year not at the standard rate which everybody else is paying but rather at this odd little rate of its own. I say 'little' rate, but that is somewhat inaccurate as I shall demonstrate in a moment. It is a rate which has never been in operation for anyone paying tax in any year. It is a rate which will never be in actual operation for provisional tax payers or for any one else in this financial year or, as far as we can tell, in the future. 
The significance of all this is that the provisional tax which will be derived from this calculation at most levels will be on a scale substantially greater than the actual amounts which will be payable. For example, figures which I have seen and taken out show that at the bottom of the range of income- let us say in the range $3,750 to $3,893- an extra amount of tax of not less than 30.6 per cent will be payable by provisional tax payers. That is the amount by which the provisional tax will be higher than the actual standard rate of tax which everybody else will be paying. In the middle range, to take out a figure, someone with an income of $12,532 to $16,000 will be paying provisional tax at a rate of 7.6 per cent higher than the actual rate paid by other classes of taxpayers. 
For incomes up towards the top of the tree, say $32,000 to $33,216, the increased amount which will have to be paid by provisional taxpayers is 16.9 per cent higher than the standard rate. Once one gets over $33,216 the extra amount falls away again to 2.9 per cent, but of course, the actual dollar sums represented by that percentage amount here are quite substantial. These percentage figures which I have indicated add up in dollar terms to a very substantial sum both for the individual provisional tax payer who has to find this additional amount and for the Department of the Treasury which will be the cheerful recipient of, I suggest, not merely hundreds of thousands of extra dollars but millions of dollars as a result of this calculation. The question that remains to be considered is: Why on earth has the Government struck the rate in this way given that, to the extent that the provisional tax rate is more than the actual rate, then the Government will ultimately have to give the excess back, at least in the form of a credit on next year's provisional tax payment. 
One suggestion is that this is just another product of the Government's by now familiar incompetence, another demonstration of that gap between aspiration and intention on the one hand and accomplishment on the other which has become such a routine feature of this Government's performance. I suggest that the real motive of this exercise is simply that the Government is anxious to inflate its revenue artifically this financial year by any means possible so as to be able to conceal the true extent of its already alarmingly mounting deficit. For the future it will wait Micawber-like for something to turn up. For the present, any fiddle is better than none. 
The second detailed aspect of this legislation which I wish to consider is one that, unlike the provisional tax question with which I have been dealing, has received a good deal of comment both in this debate and in the media. Because of the scale of the inequity which is involved I suggest it can stand rather more comment. I am referring to the question of taxation of accumulated annual leave payments. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
I turn now to the question of the taxation of accumulated annual leave payments- that provision in the legislation before us which this afternoon  Senator Townley,  in one of those fits of candour that periodically condemns him to the respect of this side of the chamber, said that he 'violently disagreed ' with. The legislation before us makes accumulated annual leave payments, taken as lump sums on leaving a job, no longer taxable as to 5 per cent, as has been the case hitherto, but rather as to the whole at the standard rate of 33% per cent. 
The provision is an unhappy one in a number of respects; but its worst single aspect, as  Senator Townley  pointed out, is its retrospective application. It applies to any lump sum paid after 1 5 August of this year; but it is not confined to leave accumulated after that date. The reality is that leave that has fallen due in past years is to be well and truly taxable at the new rate. To suggest, as did both the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his Budget Speech and the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech, that the provision operates otherwise than retrospectively is to engage in the worst possible form of logic chopping. The legislation applies, after all, to decisions that people have taken in the past to accumulate rather than actually to enjoy leave, decisions taken without any possible knowledge of what are now to be their consequences. People have postponed their leave, deferred their leave or abandoned their leave on the basis that they would not be penalised for so doing. They now find themselves paying very large sums to the Treasury, sums that they could not possibly have anticipated paying. The essence of retrospective legislation is that it operates so as to change the rules after the game has been played. This legislation is a classic example of that. 
The scale of its consequences ought to be well and truly appreciated. Let us examine the case of someone with the average weekly earnings of $200 and an entitlement of four weeks annual leave. If he is able to save his holiday pay he accumulates such entitlement at the rate of $800 per annum. Over a period of five years he will become entitled to a lump sum of $4,000. In the past, when taxed as to 5 per cent only, such a lump sum would have attracted a taxation liability of approximately $66. Under the Bill, taxation will now have to be paid at the rate of 33'/i per cent, or 33'/c in the dollar. On $4,000, the liability will amount to $1,340, a very large liability- one almost $1,300 greater than it would have been hitherto. This is, of course, in addition to all of the tax that the worker in question would have paid anyway by virtue of paying full rates while he was actually earning, rather than sitting back and enjoying his holidays. 
What conceivable rationale could there be for introducing legislation of this kind? All we have been offered by the Treasurer and by the Minister in his second reading speech is the proposition that the taxation system should not be such as to encourage workers to defer leave. As a general principle, I for one, and the Labor Party generally, certainly would not disagree; but two very important qualifications which must be borne in mind in the present context undermine the validity of that proposition. The first is that, whilst there may be some justification for changing the law as it applies to the future, there can be no justification whatever for giving retrospective effect to this kind of provision. No amount of encouragement' of the kind that is embodied in this taxation legislation will enable leave which could have been taken in the past to be taken. It is, as it were, water under the bridge. The worker is in the position of being fined for having deferred or abandoned his holidays. He will suffer serious financial consequences as a result of making a decision that was hitherto under the law both allowed and, indeed, encouraged. 
The second reason why the rationale offered by the Minister ought not to be regarded as sufficient to carry the day on this provision is that, quite apart from the retrospective unfairness that I have mentioned, there are particular contexts in which this legislation will operate in a totally unfair way to the employees in question. Senators Wriedt and Button, in the course of their contributions this afternoon, have indicated some of those contexts. Let me take a few moments to mention another specific context in which the very nature of the work in question is such as to make the accumulation of leave both a normal and an inevitable part of the job. I am referring to civil engineering projects of a major kind, such as are in train in my own State at the Dartmouth Dam or in the metropolitan areathe Westgate Bridge and the underground rail loop construction, projects of such a scale and duration that at any time there are about 30 in operation around the country. They are projects which have an average life of three, four or five years and often are in locations which are remote from metropolitan areas. They are projects which traditionally have adopted a work pattern of shift work, overtime and six-day weeks and, more immediately pertinent, are of such a nature that workers at all levels, including staff and administrative people continue straight through the job from start to finish without taking annual leave en route. 
At the end of such major civil engineering projects the normal course of events is for everyone to be retrenched. As a result, there is no prospect of accumulating long service leave. Nor is there provision for superannuation of any kind. The traditional practice on projects of this kind, which at any given time employ a very large number of Australian workers, has been to pay in a lump sum the accumulated annual holiday leave entitlement. The practice has been not to take holidays but rather to accumulate them in this way and then be paid a lump sum which is then used to tide the worker over until the next major source of employment can be found. Under present economic circumstances that is likely, of course, to be a very lengthy business. 
Let me illustrate what this means by giving an example from just one project which I visited recently. I refer to the Dartmouth Dam construction in the north-east of Victoria. It is one of the largest earth and rock fill dam constructions in the world and has been under way for some few years. In the next few months it will be in the process of winding up. More than 350 workers at the site have accumulated between them nearly three-quarters of a million dollars in holiday pay entitlement. Under the old system, taxation of the order of $15,000 would have been payable on that sum. The amount that will now be payable will be of the order of $330,000. In short, if the Bill becomes law, more than $300,000 will be taken from those 350 workers. That will represent an average loss per worker involved of almost $1,000. 
It is true, and I challenge the honourable senator to go to the site, to talk to the men and to the management, to look at the figures and to see exactly what is involved. In many cases, as a result of the passage of this legislation more than $ 1 ,000 per worker will be lost. The most disgraceful aspect of it is that the Government's decision in this respect has been made quite without warning, quite without notice and quite without any opportunity whatsoever for the workers in question to rearrange, if management indeed would have countenanced it, their work patterns and to make different decisions about how they would organise their work time. 
One further point that ought not to be overlooked when one is considering the implications of this provision is that it is not only necessarily the workers themselves who will suffer; I suggest that it is a decision that will return to haunt this Government in another way. The way in which I suggest that will happen- it is not difficult to see this- is that this measure will not do other than add very substantially indeed to the construction costs of projects, particularly the kind about which I have been talking. It is to be recalled of course that the projects that I am talking about are very largely government financed. The result is that the extra costs, if any, will shift across as yet another burden on the treasuries of this nation. The reality inevitably is that those construction firms that are tendering for projects such as this will know that they will either have to change completely in the future their work methods which will involve substantial additional labour and overhead costs in so doing or, let us face it, they will have to provide some other form of financial incentive to the workers in question to compensate them for the loss that is involved in this kind of exercise. Some indication of what might be expected in this respect of course is the negotiation that was necessary to resolve the Westgate Bridge dispute which erupted when this legislation first came to the attention of the workers there. The point that I am making is that whatever the Government might pick up from this proposal by way of additional revenue as a result of increases in tax returns on these payments, it is almost certain that it is bound to lose in higher construction costs on projects of this kind. 
The legislation is not only bad in principle because of its retrospectivity and because of the way in which it discriminates adversely against particular classes of workers of the kind that I mentioned and that  Senator Wriedt  and  Senator Button  before me mentioned, but, like so much else that this Government does, it is lacking, I would suggest, in both economic and financial sense. I urge, I suppose more in a spirit of hope than expectation, a number of other Government members to follow the lead that  Senator Townley  offered in respect of this matter before the suspension of the sitting. I urge them to summon up such reserves of honour, integrity and consistency as they can and indeed vote against their Government on this proposal. If that expectation is unsatisfied- knowing my colleagues on the other side of the chamber, I have no doubt that it will be- under those circumstances I can urge only that the Government summon its own reserves of integrity, or what is left of them, and reconsider this iniquitous decision. 
-The answer that I have just been given certainly goes some of the distance towards resolving my problem. Is this an innovatory provision? Has it been the case in the past that there has been a differential tax rate applicable to cover the effects of inflation which after all have been with us, as the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  keeps telling us, for a number of years now? I take it that this is an innovatory provision and not one which has been applicable in the past. 
I address my question to the Attorney-General. Following the recent moves to amalgamate the Commonwealth and Australian Capital Territory police forces into an enlarged new federal agency, what precisely are the Government's intentions now with respect to the reintroduction of the Criminal Investigation Bill, which the Minister will recall as originally proposed by the Whitlam Labor Government was intended to define and delimit the powers of just such a new national police agency? I remind the Minister that in answer to a question without notice from my learned friend  Senator Missen  on 9 June this year the Minister said that he 'hoped to give this legislation some attention as soon as the session ended', and that was over four months ago. 
I join  Senator Wriedt  in congratulating  Senator Townley  on bringing forward this amendment. I warmly endorse the sentiments which he expressed in support of it, both today and yesterday. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  will recall that in fact numerous speakers on both sides of the chamber have given vigorous voice to their dissent from this provision. I hope that he will take that into account in giving his reply. I hope that he also will recall that many of the people who have spoken on this provision have been concerned not simply with getting rid of its retrospectivity but also with taking account of the fact that, even if it were made to operate prospectively, it has built into it a degree of very considerable unfairness at least so far as particular categories of workers are concerned. Yesterday  Senator Wriedt  instanced people who work for small businesses and who, because of the nature of those businesses, are just unable to take off more than perhaps a couple of weeks annually and hitherto have been compensated for their sacrifices to the continued operation of those businesses by being able to accumulate their leave and being taxed on it at a lower rate. 

 Senator Button gave instances in the building industry. I hope that the Minister will recall the particular category within the building industry to which I gave expression at some considerable length yesterday, that is, civil engineering construction sites around the country. I remind him in particular of what I said yesterday when I gave as a particular illustration the situation of workers at the Dartmouth Dam in Victoria. This is a constantly recurring situation where the work practices of these sites are such as to make it thoroughly inconvenient and very difficult to operate otherwise than on an accumulation of leave basis. I specifically ask the Minister to respond directly to these kinds of criticism- not just the criticism about retrospectivity- which have been made of this provision and to give some indication that the Government will reconsider seriously and sympathetically the operation of this legislation so far as it concerns particular classes of workers who, for one reason or another, can make out a specific case to justify continuing to receive the benefit of the system as it has operated previously. 
-That definitely is one of the situations that I have in mind because it certainly arises classically on these civil engineering projects where people work for a substantial period and rely on the accumulated holiday pay to tide them over until their next employment; but that is by no means the limit of the classes of workers in these cases to which I have referred. 
I rise to make a serious point with respect to clause 22 of this Bill. I hope that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  will be in a position to give it a both thoughtful and informed response. I refer to the aspect of the Bill which relates to the calculation of provisional tax in the light of the 1 1/2 per cent surcharge and the rates that are to prevail in the 1978-79 financial year. The point I make is one that I made at considerably greater length in the second reading debate. I trust that the Minister is familiar with what I said. 
The point in short is that it appears from the text of clause 22 as it presently stands that provisional tax for the current financial year is to be calculated by reference to a figure which is derived as follows: The starting point is the composite or average rate which prevailed over the whole of the previous financial year 1977-78. Added to that is a figure arrived at by taking 1 1/2 per cent of income actually received in 1977-78 over a specified minimum sum. The point about these two calculations- which as I said in my speech in the second reading debate on the face of it is a somewhat eccentric, idiosyncratic provision obviously bearing no direct relationship to anything else in the Bill- is that it varies substantially and significantly from the figure that will be paid by everyone paying actual tax rates this year. The actual tax rate this year is a figure which is derived roughly by taking the tax rate which prevailed at the end of 1977-78 and adding to that the  Vh  per cent surcharge at the appropriate level. 
I appreciate that I am raising a somewhat complex matter but the point is that there is a difference between the rate set here for the calculation of provisional tax and the ordinary rate which is to be applicable generally. This difference means that in the case, for example, of a provisional tax payer- as I mentioned in my speech in the second reading debate- at the bottom of the range earning beteen $3,750 and $3,893 a year such a person will pay this year in provisional tax something like 30 per cent more than the actual rate that is applicable for this year. A taxpayer in the middling range of $12,532 to $16,000 a year will pay extra tax at 7.6 per cent. People at the top of the scale on $32,000 to $33,000 will pay an additional tax factor of 1 6 per cent to 1 7 per cent. 
The question raised by all this is: Why on earth has the Government done this? It is clear that any extra tax that is paid by way of provisional tax over and above the standard applicable rate will have to be credited to the taxpayer in question in next year's provisional tax calculation. That is clear. The Government will not make a permanent gain. The only rationale that I can see for this step is that this is a way of artificially inflating this year's revenue to conceal or to disguise the true extent of the deficit. While I have not been in a position to make the overall calculation there can be no doubt that not only hun.derds and thousands of dollars are involved for individual taxpayers but also clearly some millions of dollars of additional revenue will be derived as a result of this measure over and above what would have been the case had the standard rate been applicable to provisional taxpayers. It is an important point that I raise. As I said, I seek what I hope will be an informed reply from the Minister. 

 Senator CHANEY (Western Australia) Minister for Administrative Services) (3.28)- There was a hint of admonition in  Senator Evans's  final and indeed his opening remarks. I shall be as formal as possible in the light of his injunction. He can have the satisfaction of having the words of my advisers straight from my mouth. They have pointed out to me that, although what  Senator 
Evans put is correct, it is not necessarily a position that has to be accepted by the taxpayer. I will simply read from the notes so that  Senator Evans  has the advice in a formal manner. 

 Senator Evans's view is based on the fact that the composite rates of tax for 1 977-78 are to be used in calculating provisional tax for 1978-79 rather than the standard rates applicable for 1978-79 plus the 1 per cent additional tax. This view overlooks the fact that the base income used for provisional tax is also 1977-78 income. If 1978-79 rates were to be used, it would be necessary to increase the base 1977-78 income by a factor for inflation so as to get an amount for provisional tax which could reasonably approximate the tax payable for 1978-79. Calculations show that the method used generally achieves this result. 
This is covering the situation where a person, having assessed his true income for last year, then bases his provisional tax simply on the fact that he is likely to earn the same amount in the following year. This is the normal method of computation of the Taxation Office. That fails to take into account the fact that incomes generally are shifting upwards. That has been the case for a long time in Australia. While 1 978-79 rates are used in calculating tax instalment deductions, these rates are applied to the current higher 1978-79 levels of income. It would be unfair and not in accordance with the pay-as-you-earn system if provisional taxpayers were to get the benefit of the new rates applied to their generally lower incomes of last year. The system used is set out clearly at page 159 of Budget Statement No. 4 of 1978-79. 
Having said that, the taxpayer who is disadvantaged by that situation- who I assume can be only the taxpayer whose income is for some reason reduced in 1978-79- does have an out. As is indicated in that statement, the law gives an opportunity to provisional taxpayers to have the 1978-79 rates applied if they elect to self-assess; that is, if they provide an estimate of taxable income for the 1978-79 year. That is the position which in fact has applied certainly since last year and is no different. My own experience as a provisional taxpayer was that one always made an estimate of what one's actual income was going to be just in case one's income had fallen. One would then get a revision of provisional tax. For the great bulk of provisional tax earners that is something which it is possible to do. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) What has been the European itinerary of  Mr Justice  Staples in his inquiry which, on 26 December 1976, the Attorney-General's predecessor requested him to undertake into the practices, procedures and laws which other countries have adopted for the protection of basic human rights. 
When will the Attorney-General make public the four reports on Canada which were received from His Honour in September and October 1977 (referred to in Answer to Question on Notice No. 777, House of Representatives  Hansard,  23 May 1978, page 2364). 
On what dates and subjects have subsequent reports been received from His Honour. 
I ask my question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It concerns the present excursion to the United States of America of  Mr Sinclair  with the announced intention of rescuing the Australian beef industry from the effect of the United States beef legislation now awaiting presidential assent. Is it not the case that it has been widely known and acknowledged among United States political and agricultural writers for months that this legislation was essentially a domestic, political stunt motivated primarily by a desire to appease midwestern beef producers in the congressional election due in the first week of November? Is that why there was no ministerial representation from Australia at the earlier stage? Further, is it not the case that because of the rising of the Congress for that election in the first week of November, the legislation in question will lapse automatically without the necessity of any affirmative presidential veto? Is it not the case also that it is universally anticipated in the United States that the  President  will make use of this so-called pocket veto and the legislation will lapse accordingly and that, as a result,  Mr Sinclair's  visit will make no conceivable difference whatsoever to the outcome? Further, is it a fact that any grandstanding he might be tempted to do on his return will as a result be entirely unjustified? 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, concerns legal aid. Is the Attorney-General aware that, notwithstanding guidelines so strict that people below the current Henderson poverty line are in fact being refused legal aid, the Australian Legal Aid Office in Victoria is currently running at a deficit of $245,000 and that the current national deficit is running at over $500,000? Is he aware of claims made in this morning's Press by senior representatives of the Law Institute of Victoria and the Fitzroy Legal Service that the present backlog of cases in Victoria is of the order of 800 with an expected backlog of 1,500 to 1,800 cases within the next fortnight or so? Will he agree that whatever other measures to solve the legal aid crisis might be in Government contemplation and which may be announced shortly, the immediate backlog problem to which I have adverted can be resolved only by an immediate increase in the legal aid vote by $500,000? 
-Without wishing to disturb unduly or dispel the atmosphere of mutual bonhomie, sweetness and light which prevailed at today's official parliamentary luncheon for  President  Scheel, I do not think the day ought to be allowed to pass without someone putting on the record the proposition that not everything in the West German garden presently is lovely. I refer to the mounting concern which has come to be expressed by democrats around the world in recent years at the condition of civil liberty in West Germany. That the West German Government feels just a little bit sensitive on this subject was perhaps demonstrated by  President  Scheel's explicit and unprovoked denial in the course of his luncheon address that West Germany is a police state. I certainly do not wish directly to contradict that denial. 
I would certainly concede that the restrictions that have been imposed on liberty in West Germany and to which I propose to advert briefly bear no resemblance whatsoever to the curbs on liberty which exist in the German Democratic Republic, that is Eastern Germany, which are manifestly worse than anything that West Germany has been able to manage. I would also readily concede that the problems of urban terrorism from the Baader-Meinhof group and others with which West Germany and other countries have had to deal in recent years surpass anything in our experience and on any view would justify a significantly harsher regime than one might wish for in the best of all possible worlds. I nonetheless suggest that the kind of regime which has been implemented in West Germany in recent years goes significantly further than most people, including very many reputable West Germans, would readily concede was justified and is of a kind which should significantly qualify today's apparently unqualified approval of all things that are West German. 
There are a number of measures and programs to which I might advert in this context, including some recent and rather unhappy amendments to the West German criminal law which were the subject of adverse comment in the Amnesty International 1977 report. Perhaps the central unhappy feature of the regime to which I have referred is the anti-radical decree of 1972 which led to the establishment of the office for the protection of the Constitution, the development by that office of the concept of enemy of the Constitution and the associated development of the system of Berufsverbote which translates as professional disbarment or a ban on following one's chosen profession. Although those developments did not originally have the force of law, the decree of 1972 to which I have referred was in fact adopted very briskly thereafter as guidelines by the respective State and Federal bureaucracies in West Germany and received the imprimatur of the West German Supreme Constitutional Court in 1975. 
During this period it had become well and truly entrenched. The basic feature of the system is that anyone who is labelled by this apparatus as a political radical or as an associate of extremists is forbidden the right to work, either to join or to continue in employment in the West German Public Service. What needs to be appreciated is that while in Australian terminology one normally thinks of the Public Service in daytoday terms as being simply the persons employed directly by Commonwealth and State government departments, the German concept of that expression is to apply far more actively and widely the term so as to cover such disparate groups as policemen, soldiers, many employees of hospitals, the railroad system, the Post Office, public utilities, schools and universities, welfare agencies, public libraries and so on. Indeed, the expression as it is used in West Germany covers more than 20 per cent of the work force. 
The principle behind the system to which I am adverting is the familiar McCarthyist one that if one is not committed to the Constitution, or works against it- as we will see, the way in which these assessments are arrived at leaves something to be desired- one has no right to work for any of the public services to which I have referred. That basic notion that if a person does not believe in and is not committed to the existence of the state it is not reasonable for him to be employed by it might command theoretical acceptance to some degree, I suppose, insofar as it applies to genuine revolutionaries, although I would not necessarily accede to any such principle, at least so long as one's revolutionary commitment remained of a purely theoretical and inactive kind. But the basic difficulty with the system is that the principle has been applied in West Germany in such a way that many Germans have faced Berufsverbote or professional disbarment because of political activities which would pass virtually without comment in Australia and other familiar political democracies. 
Although the developments to which I have referred have been the subject of comment for some time in the print media available in this country, the British and American weeklies in particular, I suppose that the first acquaintance that most Australians would have had with these developments would have been the  Four Corners  television program 'Democracy at Risk' which was shown by the Australian Broadcasting Commission on the weekend of 7 and 8 October. I commend the producers of that program for what was, I suggest, a balanced and dispassionate treatment of what were, on any view, somewhat alarming developments. 
The  Four Corners  program showed a number of specific cases of the operation of this system, all of them presently being fought out in the German courts. One example was that of a mature aged trainee teacher, not a member of the Communist Party or any of its multifarious offshoots, in West Germany whose offences apparently were twofold: First, to organise his fellow trainee teachers when they were threatened with a salary deduction, to threaten a strike- not actually to carry it out- against the authorities; and, secondly, to sign in company with a number of other people who were communists- I repeat that apparently he was not- an open letter protesting against the violation of the Constitution in Chile. As a result of that behaviour he has been subsequently unable to acquire any kind of teaching job in West Germany, notwithstanding some 60 applications and 40 interviews, and manifest approval of his formal qualifications. 
The mass circulation German magazine  Stern,  in a series of special articles published earlier this year under the general title ' Freedom 1978'spelt out dozens of similar case histories. Other reports that I have seen in the Australian media feature many other examples of the system at work. For example, a West Berlin trainee teacher was barred from teaching because she belonged to an art society whose executive council included a gentleman, a lawyer who had once defended members of the Baader-Meinhof gang, and who was suspected of sympathising with his clients. 
Another trainee teacher was refused a school appointment when it was discovered he had distributed pamphlets for the Communist Party. Others have failed to get government jobs or have been dismissed from government jobs because they were relatives of known terrorists or extremists. A whole series of examples of that kind have emerged from a steadily burgeoning literature on this subject. 
The system, as it operates in West Germany, is apparently built around a highly elaborate surveillance and information network which extends right across the central and state governments and links police agencies at those respective levels of government with the Central Office for the Protection of the Constitution. The system was conveniently summarised in its relevant respects by Paul Lyneham in the  Four Corners  report to which I have referred in the following terms: 
At the local police station intelligence reports- 
Which, I interpolate, are primarily compiled from records of people attending demonstrations, distributing leaflets, signing petitions or attending controversial court hearings- are prepared and sent to the state offices of criminal investigation and to the State Offices for the Protection of the Constitution. If the state criminal police think the reports are interesting they will forward them to the federal office of criminal investigation. There they are fed into either the terror computer, called PEOS, or the search computer, IMPOL IMPOL is now linked with nearly 1,300 terminals in police stations, patrol cars and border crossings and airports. IMPOL also stores data on citizens who have come under suspicion on very vague information. In police jargon 'observance search seven'. 
Meanwhile the State Office for the Protection of the Constitution may also have forwarded the reports to its federal office in Colgne where details are fed into the computer known as NARDIS. It 's NARDIS that will sift your political background if you try to join the public service, to become a train driver, or a teacher. 
The Office for the Protection of the Constitution can also tap the computers of the Federal Office of Criminal Investigation, the Federal Intelligence Service and the Military Intelligence Service. There are plans to include in this link up the computers of the Central Registry of Foreigners and of the Federal Central Registry which keeps data on criminal offences. 
Evidence is also accumulating of this surveillance system operating in a number of other spheres as well. I refer just in passing to an article which appeared in the  Guardian Weekly  of 16 July 1978, which refers to the emergence of information about the Office for the Protection of the Constitution seeking and obtaining from public libraries around Germany records of the borrowings of politically suspect persons to elicit what sort of literature they are in fact reading. 
The scale of this whole operation is somewhat difficult to estimate, for fairly obvious reasons, but such information as is available from official sources does suggest that officially 450,000 applicants for public service posts were subjected to political investigations between January 1973 and October 1975. They included postmen, train drivers, nurses and teachers. Since then the total is thought to have risen to at least 800,000. lt is suggested by West German sources which have commented on this that, in a more indirect way, surveillance in fact has been extended to millions of German citizens, creating a real atmosphere of concern in many areas, conspicuously in schools and the teaching profession and universities, and creating something worse than that- something in the nature of alarm and fear among the young and especially politically active West Germans. The number who are actually subject to berufsverbot or professional disbarment is not a figure which is officially available, but it has been estimated by  Stern  magazine and a number of other informal sources as being of the order of 4,000. These are people who are actually subject to explicit disbarment orders such that they cannot gain public service employment. Of that 4,000 it is estimated that only about two-thirds have ever actually been members of the Communist Party or any of its various West German offshoots. 
The criticism which has been directed to the operation of this system, not only from outside Germany but also certainly from many quarters from within it, has been widespread and substantial. Perhaps the most significant such criticism to emerge has been that delivered very vigorously and effectively by the former West German Chancellor, Willi Brandt, who was indeed Chancellor in 1 972 when the anti-radical decree was promulgated, and who bears very real responsibility for the introduction of the system. He has described it as having acquired a grotesque momentum of its own. Again, let me quote a couple of relevant passages from a speech which he delivered earlier this year to the West German Parliament, and which was reported on the  Four Corners  program. It was to the following effect: 
The investigative procedures of numerous government agencies have developed a dynamic of their own, and unfortunately this has not been corrected by the judgment of the Supreme Court. 
The dynamic has developed to such an extent that some investigations have quite grotesque features. This has become more and more of a scandal in the states of Germany. 

 Mr Brandt went on to say: 
None of us would have predicted that this would lead to hundreds of thousands of cases of people being asked about  what they had once written in a high school newspaper, or whether they had ever participated in a demonstration. But it is not only a matter of numbers, it is also a problem because of the stress on the intellectual climate in the Federal Republic. That is the point. 
I hope that it will not be thought to be unduly churlish of me to raise these matters at a time when the hospitality of the Australian Government is being extended to the most senior West German governmental delegation ever to visit this country. I suggest that Australia gains no points anywhere in the world by turning a blind eye to the totalitarianism or to totalitarian developments in governments of any colour, whether they be routinely identified as governments of the right, of the left or of the centre. 1 hope that Australians will not turn a blind eye to what a great many people have thought in recent years to have constituted a most unhappy development in West Germany's recent political history. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the large majority of Government senators who are reported in this morning's Press as still wanting to elect their own leader rather than having him appointed over their heads by the Prime Minister, does the Leader of the Government feel that he enjoys sufficient confidence in this place to justify his continuing in that position? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. What is the state of progress with respect to the proposed amalgamation of the Commonwealth Police Force and the Australian Capital Territory Police into a new Federal or Australian police force? Given the possible implications for civil liberties of the establishment of a new Federal Bureau of Investigation-style of national police agency, which, as the Minister will no doubt recall, the present Government was not slow to advert to when criticising the Labor Government's proposals for a new Australian police force, will the establishment of that force be made contingent upon the enactment of the 
Criminal Investigation Bill, as the Whitlam Government in fact proposed? 
I confine my remarks to that part of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) which deals with the appropriation for the Attorney-General's Department, and in particular to Division 175 dealing with the Australian Legal Aid Office. The total appropriation provided for the Australian Legal Aid Office for the current financial year is $ 19.6m, in round figures, which compares with an expenditure last year of $19. 9m. The figures in the Bill, both in total and when dissected into their component parts, reveal quite starkly the dimensions of the crisis which legal aid is now experiencing in this country. The failure to make a more substantial provision for legal aid once again, just as it has done in the last two Budgets of this Government, makes nonsense of  Mr Fraser's  1975 policy speech promise when he said: 
We shall ensure that no person is denied legal aid because of lack of means. 
The reality is that people are being denied legal aid on the basis of their means; not only if they are rich, not only if they are earning in excess of average weekly earnings and not only if they are earning about the same as average weekly earnings in this country. They are even being denied legal aid if their disposable income is less than the current Henderson poverty line. And people are being denied legal aid in many instances even if their only source of income is a Commonwealth social security pension. So much has been admitted often enough in this chamber by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in recent weeks. The fact that this is so stands as an absolutely disgraceful monument not only to this Government's incapacity to keep its word but also to its total indifference to the plight of the less well-off in this community. 
The key to understanding the dimensions of the current crisis and the way it has come about through the steady erosion of the real value of Commonwealth legal aid funding since it was introduced by the Whitlam Labor Government in 1975 is to refer not just to the figures which are set out on the face of this Bill but also to another set of figures which are concealed within the figures in the Bill and which have been painfully extracted only by long and difficult cross examination of departmental officers and the Minister during the recent Estimates Committee hearings. I refer to the figures which concern the permissible commitments of funds for the referral of matters to private legal practitioners. Because of the Government's refusal to provide adequate salaried staff for ALAO offices, the main burden of delivering legal aid, of providing actual legal aid services has been borne- it must be said much to its delight- by the private legal profession. The crucial figure, therefore, in determining the real extent of the provision of that aid is the amount of funds which has been specifically allocated or earmarked for that particular purpose. Under this heading the really crucial figure is the amount of funds which is allowed to be committed, as the expression goes, by ALAO offices for that purpose in each financial year. 
There is a distinction in this respect, which is rather peculiar to the operation of the legal aid system, between expenditure on the one hand and commitment on the other. 'Expenditure', which is the amount which appears in the Bill before us, refers to the amounts which are actually paid out, the cheques which are actually drawn, in any given year. Such amounts may be paid in many instances in respect of cases which started one, two or three years earlier whereas 'commitment' represents the amount of new business which is allowed to be undertaken in each given financial year. The commitment figure, therefore, is the crucial figure that one needs to look at when one is trying to assess the legal aid services that are currently being delivered. 
What, then, is the situation with respect to commitment funds? In 1975, when the Legal Aid Office was originally set up by the Labor Government, the commitment level of funds for 1975-76 for private legal practitioners concerning matters referred to them by the Legal Aid Office was set at $12m. With the change of government at end of that year, and notwithstanding the substantial increase in the consumer price index and the continued inflation which took place, the commitment level for the next financial year, 1976-77, was maintained at exactly the same amount of $ 12m. In 1977-78, again notwithstanding the continued serious effects of inflation in this country, the commitment level was again set initially at $12m although it was allowed to ride up to $ 12.8m during the course of that year. When we look at the figure for the current financial year, 1978-79, we find that the commitment figure has gone back to $ 12.2m. So far from there being an increase in the commitment of funds for this purpose, over the last four years there has in fact been a reduction. Let us consider the dimensions of that reduction. As I have said, for four years we have had a commitment level for funds hovering around $12m while during that time the consumer price index has increased by of the order of 30 per cent. It must be said that that increase has certainly been reflected in the costs charged by the private legal profession, as all too many litigants will have experienced to their regret over the last few years. Thus the reality is that the real value of the funds committed for legal aid delivered through the private profession has declined spectacularly by an amount of the order of 30 per cent, over the three years that the Fraser Government has been in office. That decline in the real level of commitment funds has been reflected in both the quantity and the quality of the services that the legal aid system has been able to provide. The level of those services, as a result, has declined spectacularly over the last four years. There has been a spectacular decline in the ability of the legal aid system to meet the real legal aid needs of people in the community who cannot afford to pay legal costs and who desperately need this aid. 
The way that that decline has shown up is evidenced in two separate ways. In the first place, the decline in the ability of the system to deliver services is indicated by reference to the increasingly stringent means and needs test which the Australian Legal Aid Office has been forced to apply under the direction of the Government. In 1975, when the first means test guidelines were introduced, a limit was set on the ceiling of disposable income which one could have in order to qualify for legal aid. That limit was set in 1975 at $50 for a single person with further provision for another $20 to be added to that for a first dependant and $15 for each subsequent dependant. The notion of disposable income, I might interpolate, is that of gross income less provision for tax, rent, rates, hire purchase payments and certain other specific outgoings. Moreover, it must also be said in respect of those original 1975 guidelines that they were, and were meant to be, essentially flexible in their operation. They were not absolute. They were not strict. There was a lot of room for manoeuvre and many people who exceeded the guidelines in terms of their income were able to get legal aid for expensive cases which they could not otherwise possibly have afforded. 
But, once again, with the change of government in 1 976, we had a complete change of heart in the way those guidelines operated. They became infinitely more stringent. That situation has prevailed to the present day. The basic $50 limit was reduced to $40. That $40 was the maximum disposable income that a single person could have in order to qualify for legal aid. The dependant's allowance similarly was reduced from $20 to $ 1 5 for the first dependant and from $ 1 5 to $10 for each subsequent dependant. Let us take the situation of an ordinary family composed of a breadwinner, his spouse and a couple of children. The total disposable income that that family could have in order to qualify for legal aid was thus reduced from the grand sum of $85 a week- bad enough, but that is what it had been- to the miserable sum of $65 a week. Moreover, the element of flexibility was completely withdrawn from the system. That guideline became absolutely determined, absolutely fixed, absolutely unchangeable and unable to be waived. The result was, of course, that the pool of those people eligible, particularly taking into account the effect of inflation on incomes during this period, was reduced drastically. This situation prevailed right up until the new guidelines were introduced just a couple of weeks ago by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  I will refer to those again in a moment. That is the first way in which that drastic surgery, in terms of the real value of the funds available for legal aid, has operated to the detriment of potential beneficiaries in the community. The potential pool of applicants has been drastically reduced. 
The second way in which the crisis in funding to which I have adverted has really bitten, and bitten hard, on those people in the community who most need legal aid has been evidenced in the number of cases which have been accepted for aid from the Legal Aid Office and, in turn, the private practitioners to whom the Office refers the bulk of its business. Even with the drastically reduced pool of applicants to which I have referred, confined in effect to those people absolutely poverty stricken, the result of the steady deterioration in the value of funds available has been a growing number of applicants who simply have been turned away from the system and entirely denied legal aid. That number has been growing steadily over the whole three years of this Government's term of office and it has reached quite gigantic crisis proportions over the course of the last two months. In my State of Victoria the position has been more acute than in almost all the other States put together. 
As at the end of September- these figures emerged from Senate Estimates Committee hearings- it would appear that over half a million dollars worth of cases were stockpiled around the nation. By that I mean that legal aid totalling that sum had been approved but was unable to be delivered because of a shortage of funds currently available. In practical terms, that means something like 2,000 cases, many of them involving family law maintenance, property, custody and access matters and how distressing those matters are when they involve children. All these cases were simply not getting before the courts, not being litigated and not being resolved. The hardship that that was causing to people right around the country was absolutely incalculable. By the end of October- a month later- when the Government finally took the action to which I will allude in a moment, by virtue of an absolutely ruthless application of the guidelines by the legal aid offices and the turning away of many more cases than were even being accepted, that stockpiled figure had been reduced to the order of $330,000. That meant that the number of cases outstanding, which had been approved and which were waiting to go before the courts and could not go before the courts because the money was not available to pay the lawyers, had been reduced from something like 2,000 to 1,500. But there were still that many cases waiting to be heard around the nation, including nearly 800 cases in my own State alone. The legal profession estimated that if action were not taken, this number would escalate in the next few weeks to a total of something over 2,000 cases in Victoria alone waiting in the queue. 
That was the legacy of three years of Fraser government, three years of apparent devotion to the principle enunciated in  Mr Fraser's  1975 policy speech- that no person was to be denied legal aid because of lack of means. It is absolutely impossible to overstate the dimensions of that crisis which has all come about as a result of the mean spirited penny-pinching which is once again embodied or embalmed, perhaps I should say, in this year's Appropriation Bill. 
To the credit of the Government, the Attorney-General has finally, reluctantly and cautiously, with his usual dilatoriness, come to recognise and concede the dimensions of this crisis and has resolved to take some action upon it. So in all fairness, let us now consider just what action has been taken. In considering the action, let us appreciate just how little generosity, how little sensitivity and how little humanity has been demonstrated in this new package of guidelines which is now before us. Let us appreciate what a sad anti-climax the Government's action has been for those who hoped that it would grapple imaginatively, effectively and, above all, compassionately with the crisis to which I have referred. 
Let us be clear at the outset, however, about what the Government has not done in its new recently announced solution to the legal aid crisis. Certainly, it has not provided one cent more in cash for legal aid this financial year. The total expenditure remains as it is set out in the Bill now before us. There has been no suggestion of any amendment being made to any of these figures. The expenditure remains at $19. 6m- exactly as was anticipated on Budget night a few months ago. Even the commitment of funds to which I referred earlier in my speech, so far as I have been able to establish, remains at $ 12.2m. It is true that the Attorney-General said in his statement of 26 October that he would release commitment funds amounting to $333,000 in order to enable the present backlog of cases to which I have referred to be taken up. But he has not indicated to this Parliament or to this nation that the total commitment figure for this year will be increased accordingly from $12.2m to $12. 5m as would be the case if that were so. 
No, there is every indication that the Attorney-General is simply hoping that the new stringent economy measures which he has introduced will make it possible for economies to be exercised over the next few months and thus that it will not be necessary for the commitment level to be increased. I would be delighted if the Attorney-General would come into this chamber and say that the commitment level has been increased accordingly but the remarks that he employed in his statement made in October and everything that he has said in public Press releases has skirted delicately around this issue. One is left to assume that the present respite in the legal aid crisis will be at best quite temporary and that within a matter of monthsperhaps even weeks- we will once again have the situation of people being turned away, desperate and distressed, as has been the case so often in the last few months. 
That is what the Attorney-General has not done. In fairness, let us now turn to what he has done. Two basic elements are contained in the ministerial statement of 25 October. On one side of the ledger is a set of mean spirited attempts to reduce expenditure in the legal aid area, and on the other side is a mean spirited little relaxation in the eligibility requirements so as to enable, it is said, a slightly larger pool of applicants to qualify for legal aid. Viewed as a whole, the newly announced guidelines and measures must be construed as no more than essentially an accounting exercise. There has been a shuffle of figures from some columns of the balance sheet to others. The Attorney-General has not increased in any way the total funds that are available. He has done absolutely nothing to reverse the steady downward plummeting in the real level of the total legal aid funding and accordingly the real amount and quality of the actual legal aid services which are able to be delivered. It is a classic example of the well known phenomenon which has been immortalised in the language as 'shuffling the deck chairs on the  Titanic'. 
In the all too short time that is left to me to consider these matters- I indicate my regret that the Government apparently has been unable or unwilling to make time available for a full debate specifically on this ministerial statement- let me draw attention to the main features of this accountancy transaction. On the money saving side, first of all, we have a provision now which requires a rninimum contribution of $20 to be paid by anyone who is to receive legal aid. What a mean spirited imposition that is,  Mr President.  It is true that such an amount is hardly to be regarded as excessive for earners like you and I or my fellow parliamentarians or members of this Government. Perhaps it is not even an excessive imposition for the ordinary level of income earners. But we are not talking about ordinary income earners when we are talking. about legal aid. We are talking about people who have to budget each week down to their last single cent; we are talking about people for whom $10 may very often represent the food bill for a whole week. A sum, like $20, viewed in that context, is a very great sum indeed. 
It is true that the new guidelines provide that that amount may be waived in cases of what are referred to as 'demonstrated hardship'. Think of what it means for a person to have to crawl on bended knees and ask for this kind of charity to be dispensed. When Federal legal aid was first introduced by  Senator Lionel  Murphy on behalf of the Whitlam Labor Government it was introduced on the basis that legal advice and assistance should be available as of right to every member of this community. It was central to the concept of Federal legal aid as it was then introduced that it be both claimed and dispensed in a way that was fully consistent with the dignity of the individual. Now, however, we have a situation in which the whole legal aid system is permeated with the reek of the charity ward. What the Fraser Government has done with Medibank, with the 75 per cent fee level for the so-called 'socially disadvantaged', has now been introduced with a vengeance into the whole legal aid system. 
This concept crops up everywhere. It crops up in the context of the $100 fee which is now payable to the Family Law Court of Australia in dissolution matters, where it is provided that that fee can be waived if the applicant demonstrates what is described as 'substantial hardship'. Again we find that assistance has been abandoned altogether for dissolution proceedings where there are no accompanying custody, maintenance or property matters in issue, but this new provision will not apply to those people who can prove to the satisfaction of the Legal Aid Office that they are in a position of 'special hardship'. All the apparatus of social stigmatisation is thus laid out before our eyes in these criteria: Demonstrated hardship, substantial hardship and special hardship. Is this the Fraser Government's contribution to the development of a civilised society? If it is, it ought to be ashamed of itself. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was referring to that aspect of Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) which deals with legal aid. I was discussing the nature of the crisis which has developed in this area of government expenditure over the last three years of office of the Fraser Government and I was referring to the inadequacy and, indeed, general heartlessness of the measures which have been proposed by the Government to resolve, at least temporarily, this crisis. Those measures involve a number of attempts to cut expenditure. On that side of the ledger I have already referred to the requirement that a minimum contribution of $20 be demanded of every recipient of legal aid. 
The second initiative which has been taken on the expenditure cutting side is the rather drastic one of abandoning altogether provision for legal aid in the case of undefended dissolution of marriage proceedings not involving any other ancillary proceedings. It is true, it must be conceded, that undefended divorces of this relatively simple kind have certainly placed a great strain on the limited legal aid resources and there may have been a case for applying some surgery in this area. But, once again, that surgery has been excessively drastic. Such are the procedural complexities that remain under the Family Law Act that it is still true that most people will require legal aid and assistance if they are to be able to manage the conduct of dissolution proceedings. They certainly will not get such assistance from the understaffed personnel of the Family Court and they certainly will not be able to get it from the grossly understaffed salaried complement of the Australian Legal Aid Office, who have been forced by the present Government to operate under severely restrictive staff ceilings- so restrictive that the ceilings have not only been not increased over the years since the Fraser Government has been in office but in fact have been reduced from 442 to 364 during that period. The reality is that legal costs for a simple undefended divorce will be still of the order of $300 or more for any litigant in this area, and this sort of sum is just hopelessly out of the reach of many people in the community. As a result many people will continue to be trapped in the formalities of marriage relationships which have hopelessly broken down. Once again this Government has demonstrated that it just does not care. 
The major initiative which the Government has now taken on the expenditure cutting side has been in the area of drastically revising cost scales for lawyers in the area of Family Court proceedings generally. This must be said to be the area of the new proposals with which I would have least disagreement. The complexity of the new cost scales is such that it is difficult to estimate precisely what their impact will be. No doubt that is the major reason that the profession has reacted to the new scales with somewhat bemused silence. But what the new cost scales would seem to amount to is, roughly speaking, a reduction of the return to lawyers in Family Court matters from the existing 90 per cent to something like 80 per cent of their normal fees. I believe that those lawyers who have the interests of their clients and, indeed, of the community as a whole at heart- there are some still in the profession who satisfy that description- will accept this new imposition reasonably cheerfully if, and it is a very big if, it means that legal aid in the future in fact will be delivered more widely and more effectively than it has been in the last three years and if it means that they will be able to get on with the job of litigating cases and representing people in need and will not be in a position of having to defer endlessly urgent cases and, even worse, in many instances to turn away people who are desperately in need of help and who are just not getting it. 
The other side of the ledger is the new provision announced by the Attorney-General that is supposedly to increase the pool- the pool so drastically reduced over the last three years- of those eligible to receive legal aid. We have the so-called relaxation of the guidelines. But what a fraud that is! In a fit of enormous generosity the Attorney-General announced that the income test has been amended so as to increase the basic disposable income for a person without dependants from $40 to $52. In other words, the ceiling of disposable income which will entitle a person to legal aid, or disentitle him to legal aid if his disposable income is above that limit, is now $52. There has been no consequential increase, however, in the allowances for dependants. They remain as they were at $15 for the first dependant and $10 for the second and subsequent dependants. That does no more than simply restore the income test to where it stood in 1975. It does absolutely nothing to compensate for the 3 1 per cent increase in the consumer price index that has occurred during that period. 
However much the Government and the Attorney-General may twist, turn, evade and seek to rationalise their position on this matter, the reality still is that very many pensioners and others below the current Henderson poverty line will still miss out on legal aid. It is true that single people whose sole income is the unemployment benefit- we know how many of those people there are now in the community- will just squeeze within the test, to the extent that the current single person's benefit is $51.45. But- and what a breath-taking little bit of irony this is- a single person who is in receipt of an age pension, an invalid pension or a widow 's pension will now be prima facie disentitled to be eligible for legal aid. This is because just six days after the Attorney-General announced the increases in the legal aid means test, those pensions were increased from $51.45- it will be noticed that this is just under the $52 level-to $53.20. So people in receipt of the age pension, the invalid pension or a widow's pension will now be over the income entitlement level. 
The reality, thus, is that legal aid is still in a shameful and discrediting mess in this country and no one has been more discredited by this mess than the Fraser Government, which has allowed it all to happen. The only immediate way out of the mess is for the Government to do what it has not done in this legislation before us- that is, to make a massive injection of funds into the federal legal aid budget. It is only by doing that that we can restore sanity, credibility and, above all, humanity to the operation of the federal legal aid system. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 28 September 1 978: 
Has the Government yet decided whether it will implement the recommendations in the Annual Report of the Trade Practices Commission, tabled in the Senate on 1 9 September 1978, relating to those directors, agents or servants of a company who must be in possession of knowledge before their knowledge can be imputed to the company; if so, when will the necessary amendment to the Trade Practices Act 1 974 be brought forward. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the denial by the Government of a passport to  Mr Michael  Brandon which, as the Minister will recall, came to public prominence in the context of the Peter Henry suicide threat episode in the second week of October. Is the Minister now in a position to advise the Senate of the outcome of the review of that passport matter which was promised at the time by the then Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Sinclair. 
-This is not a debate about the rights or wrongs, the morality or immorality, or even the legality or illegality of abortion. This proposition no doubt will prove somewhat disappointing to those who have been eagerly anticipating the spilling of buckets of sectarian blood on this occasion. It is also a proposition which no doubt will be somewhat befuddling to all but about 10 of my 2,000 recent correspondents on this subject who have leapt into the fray on the assumption that the debate is about the rights and wrongs of abortion as such. 
The debate is about several things. It is about the relations between the Commonwealth on the one hand and the people and government of the Australian Capital Territory on the other. It is also about the status of ministerial undertakings which are given in apparent good faith at the time, but which are then cynically and, I would say, inexcusably subsequently breached. It is also about- this no doubt is a matter of regret to most people in this chamber except the lawyers- some very highly technical matters of law and procedure relating to the promulgation and disallowance of ordinances. 
To appreciate the issues which call for a decision by us today, it is necessary, as the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has just acknowledged, to appreciate the sequence of events which has created the present controversy and the present debate. To some extent that task has been performed for us by the Minister but, I regret to say, with some conspicuous omissions. So it is necessary to relate briefly again just precisely what has happened. 
It all began with a controversy which erupted early in 1977 in the Australian Capital Territory when it became known that one or more private abortion clinics were proposed to be established. The question of the most appropriate facilities to satisfy the large and very largely unmet demand for legal abortions in the Australian Capital Territory, currently estimated to be running at about 500 or 600 per annum- the vast majority of which in fact are carried out outside the Territory- had been a matter of fairly lively discussion. It became more so as a result of the proposal to introduce private clinics. Not only was it a matter of discussion among those numerous people who were, and remain, implacably and absolutely opposed to any form of abortion facility being provided in the Australian Capital Territory or anywhere else to anyone at all, but it was also a matter of concern to those who have been unhappy about the demand for abortions being satisfied by private profiteers. Thus began the controversy. 
The response of the then Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Staley,  was to request the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly to consider the matter and to give him and the Minister for Health its views. That proposition was communicated in a letter from  Mr Staley  on 16 March 1977. The request was that such views be communicated before the Minister for Health took such positive action as was thought appropriate. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  then came into the picture, and this is the particularly crucial matter which was omitted, regrettably, from  Senator Guilfoyle  's chronology of events. 
The substance of the reply by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  to a very important question by  Mr Beazley  in the House of Representatives on 24 March 1977 was that the decision about what appropriate course of action would be taken would be left to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. It was not just a matter of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly considering the matter or making recommendations or communicating its views; it was anticipated- indeed, this undertaking was given- by the Minister that the Australian Capital Territory legislature would be given the opportunity to decide this matter. That appears very clearly from the language employed by  Mr Hunt  in his answer in the House of Representatives on that day and from which I now quote: 
We have decided as a government, and quite rightly so, that matters relating to the Australian Capital Territory, matters that have great social consequence and matters that have wide-ranging consequences for the people in this community, will be debated, discussed and decided by those people who were elected by the local community. 
Further on the Minister states:  1 conclude by saying that the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly voted to ban abortions outside the recognised hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory for a 90-day period during which time it will debate the wider issues and take decisions in respect of the way in which abortions will be carried out in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I am not sure how those particular passages are going to be construed by opposing speakers in this debate. I suggest that it would be very difficult indeed to take those passages at other than their face value and not to construe them as a positive, clear and unequivocal undertaking by the Minister that in respect of this particular vexed social issue, on which local views rather than governmental views are of paramount importance in ensuring the acceptability of whatever solution was adopted, whatever the legal situation might be and whatever the normal situation might be, he would be prepared to accept the considered decision of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. As a result of that undertaking, accordingly the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly set in train a public inquiry, which inquiry was carried out by the Standing Committee on Education and Health. For the duration of that inquiry, which turned into a very thorough examination indeed of the issues, a temporary Ordinance, as the Minister has said, was made by the Government with the full and active consent and cooperation of the local assembly. This had the intention, and certainly the effect, of prohibiting the establishment of private clinics until such time as the matter was finally resolved. 
In June 1 977 the report of that Committee was brought down. It was a detailed and responsible report which contained, as has been said, no less than 47 recommendations concerning not only the immediate question of private abortion clinics, which had prompted the whole exercise, but also an elaborate set of recommendations as to the favoured way in which abortion should be carried out. It also referred to a number of ancillary matters relating to contraception, sex education and so on. 
The major recommendations of that committee of inquiry were: Firstly, the general recommendation 'That free standing abortion clinics, that is, outside public hospital grounds, shall not be permitted in the Australian Capital Territory'. As to the question of what specific legislation would be necessary, recommendation 2 was: 'That a permanent Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance be made to ensure that private free standing abortion clinics do not operate in the ACT.' Turning to the positive side of the ledger, recommendation 5 was: 'That there should be a clinic, conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission, within the grounds of a public hospital to perform abortions up to eleven (11) weeks of pregnancy. . . . '. So there was provision there for the establishment of a separate clinic in the public hospital grounds to conduct early term abortions. Subsequent recommendations made it clear that the intention was to create thereby a separately administered clinic, a separately staffed clinic, which would only geographically be associated with the hospital, and would only be associated with the hospital in terms of administration to the extent that both would be under the general auspices of the Capital Territory Health Commission. 
Those were the recommendations and they were accompanied, as I say, by a very large number of ancillary recommendations as to the procedures which should accompany the establishment of a clinic, and procedures which should govern the carrying out of later term abortions. There were also a number of recommendations with respect to such matters as contraception, counselling and sex education. The recommendations were endorsed by an overwhelming majority- it is true that they were not endorsed unanimously but they were certainly endorsed by an overwhelming majority- of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. I think it ought to be said also that the recommendations were, to the extent that we have evidence of this, manifestly in line with the thinking of the great body of the people ofthe Territory. 
The evidence for that is the survey that Australian National Opinion Polls conducted during the course of the Committee's inquiry in May 1977. The people surveyed were asked the following question: 'Do you think Canberra should or should not have clinics where doctors carry out abortions under suitable medical conditions?'. An astonishingly large number of respondents- 70 per cent in factreplied yes to that question and a mere 24 per cent replied no. I appreciate that there is some ambiguity in the formulation of that question to the extent that it does not distinguish between public and private clinics. Indeed, the fact that it does not so distinguish and the fact that there are many pro-abortion people who nonetheless are opposed to private clinics makes one think that had the question been more carefully and specifically formulated so as to relate to publicly conducted clinics the affirmative response may well have been higher. One cannot make too much of opinion polls on this or any other question, of course, but, to the extent that we do have evidence as to public acceptability within the Territory of the kind of recommendations that emerged from the Legislative Assembly, I suggest to the Senate that the evidence is very clear indeed that those recommendations were acceptable not only to the people's representatives but also to the people themselves. 
Then we come to the Government's response to this report and to the adoption of the report by the Legislative Assembly. For a long time no response at all emerged from the Government.  Senator Guilfoyle  has said, I think, that the decision in fact was made by the Government as early as July 1977. That decision may well have been made but whether it was communicated to the public at large at that early stage remains, on my understanding, a matter of very considerable doubt. What appeared to happen was simply that a succession of further temporary ordinances to maintain the status quo was promulgated and the real position of the Government did not emerge clearly until as late as August of this year- 1978- when, of course, the major thing that happened was that the Government made and tabled, on 15 August, the Ordinance which we are now debating. The effect of that Ordinance, in my submission, was to prohibit freestanding abortion clinics of all kinds. 
There is some controversy, to which I will advert in more detail later, as to what exactly is encompassed by the Ordinance which presently exists and which we are now debating. Let me say at this stage that it has been construed all along by most people, and reasonably so, as not just continuing the prohibition of private abortion clinics, which after all was the stated intention of the original Ordinance, as  Senator Guilfoyle  has conceded, but also as appearing on its face to extend to the prohibition of any other sort of clinics, to the prohibition of any abortion procedures other than those carried out within the four walls, as it were, of an ordinary hospital. 
The subsequent series of statements communicated in various guises by the Minister to individual honourable senators and to the world at large has made it clear beyond doubt that, as the 
Minister has said, the Government rejected absolutely, unequivocally and finally all the other recommendations of the Legislative Assembly. That has been communicated in a number of ways, one of the more unequivocal ways of which was in a letter which was addressed to  Senator Ryan  dated 2 November and which I understand has had a wider circulation at the Minister's instance. 1 submit that the following paragraph explains quite clearly what the Minister's attitude is both to the present Ordinance and to the Australian Capital Territory recommendations as a whole: 
The Ordinance which you have moved to disallow reflects the Government's decision to prohibit free-standing abortion clinics in the ACT. As you know the Government has decided not to implement the other recommendations contained in the ACT Legislative Assembly Report No. 26. 
This brings us to the fundamental point which is in issue here and which must guide our deliberations throughout the course of this debate, that is, the proposition that the decision by the Minister and the Government as a whole represents a gross breach of faith by the Minister and the Government, by reference back to the earlier undertaking which the Minister gave in March 1977. He promised to allow the local people, through their representatives, to decide the question as to what abortion facilities, if any, should be made available in the Australian Capital Territory. The Assembly went ahead and, in good faith, conducted an inquiry. It made such an inquiry, producing careful, responsible and, as I have said, popularly accepted recommendations only to find itself in the situation now in which it and the Territory people have been treated with contempt. 
The question now is: What, if anything, should be done about this state of affairs? Should the Minister be allowed to get away with his actions or should the Senate, vested as it is with the responsibility to pass upon, scrutinise and keep control of subordinate legislation enacted by the Executive, do something to unwind the situation, as it were, and keep the Minister to his promises?  Senator Ryan  has been in no doubt about what should be done about this matter and, in her capacity both as a senator for the ACT and, I might add, a responsible member of this Parliament, concerned as we all should be to maintain standards as to the probity and integrity of the Executive, she has moved the motion of disallowance which is now before us. She has done it- the reasons why she has done it were clearly stated in her opening speech on 1 1 October- so as to wipe the slate clean and to enable a new and different ordinance to be made which will reflect the wishes of the people of the ACT and which will honour the Minister's promise to let the ACT people decide the outcome of this issue. 
In moving this motion it is unfortunately the case that not only the good sense but also the good faith, motives and integrity of both  Senator Ryan  and those who have indicated support for her have been called into question.  Senator Ryan,  in particular, has been vilified and calumnied very widely as being either a knave or a fool- a knave to the extent that, whatever she might have been pretending to say by way of justification for her position, really she was in favour of a massive extension of abortions through the agency of private abortion clinics. An alternative and increasingly familiar characterisation which is round the place has been that  Senator Ryan  is not so much a knave but, with respect, a poor and bemused fool who, however honourable her intentions may have been, is producing, if the motion she has moved is accepted, the result of creating, among other things, the very situation which she says she is anxious to avoid, namely the creation of abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory as a result of the legal vacuum which, as the Minister says, on the face of the Act will be created if a disallowance motion is passed and the primary rule operates that no further ordinance containing material which is the same in substance as that which has been disallowed can be passed for another six months. 
They are the kind of allegations that have been floating around. We in politics all have to be rather robust to survive, but that would seem to be a particularly necessary requisite of politicians in the Australian Capital Territory, where the peculiar viciousness of the parish pump everywhere seems to have been elevated to a particularly high art. The net result of all of these allegations which have been flying around is that there are a great many misunderstandings now abroad as to what exactly it is that  Senator Ryan,  and those who support her for the reasons that I support her, are all about. I suggest that there is an urgent need for the sake of the record simply to clarify what this debate is all about and why this motion of disallowance has been moved. Accordingly, I hope to accomplish that clarification. An amendment has been circulated to honourable senators in my name. The acceptance of this amendment would have the effect of amending  Senator Ryan's  motion of disallowance by adding certain words of purpose and of explanation at the end of the motion. I move: 
At end of motion, add 
in order that an Ordinance may be made prohibiting the establishment of private abortion clinics in the ACT; and 
to enable the Government to take such other administrative and legislative steps as are necessary to implement the recommendations ofthe ACT Legislative Assembly Standing Committee on Education and Health in its Report No. 26 entitled 'Pregnancy Termination'. 
I do not believe for a moment that the explanation which is embodied in those words will do anything to alter either the opinion or the understanding of those whose misunderstanding is deliberate and wilful. What it may do, I hope, is do a great deal to clarify the situation for everyone else, to make it clear that  Senator Ryan  and those who support her are seeking disallowance not in order to give private abortion clinics a free rein in the Australian Capital Territory but rather to enable the implementation of the very different recommendations of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. 
That, unfortunately, is not the end of the matter, nor is it the end of my speech. Establishing motives for moving this motion of disallowance is but one thing; establishing the good legal sense of the motion is quite another. It remains to consider and to argue out the legal implications of what is now sought to be done. The legal issues, as I have said, have probably created more confusion, misunderstanding and uncertainty than the other more substantive issues to which I have referred. 
There are, in fact, two quite distinct legal issues which we need to untangle and understand before voting upon this motion. The first such legal question is whether it is really necessary to disallow the existing Ordinance in order to accomplish the aims of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. Is the Ordinance really as bad as  Senator Ryan  says it is? Is it not the case that it does allow the establishment of public clinics at least in hospital grounds, which is the recommendation ofthe Legislative Assembly? If so, all the fuss is unnecessary. That is the first kind of legal question to which I wish to address some remarks. 
The second area of legal difficulty and controversy is this: What will happen if the present Ordinance is disallowed? Will there not be a legal vacuum and, even worse, a legal vacuum lasting some six months, by virtue of the provisions of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act, which provide, as I indicated a moment ago, a new ordinance cannot be proclaimed which is in any way the same in substance as the one which has just been disallowed? That is the primary effect of that section. Is it not then the case that this vacuum, a vacuum lasting as long as six months, will enable establishment at least during this period, of these private clinics which we say we do not want to be established? 
Let us look at each of those legal areas in turn. First, there is the question of the precise effect of the present Ordinance and more particularly sub-clause 3. (2) of the Ordinance, which is in the following terms: 
A registered medical practitioner shall not carry out treatment for the termination of a pregnancy otherwise than at a hospital conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission. 
Penalty: $1,000. 
The suggestion is that the expression 'at a hospital' means not just within the four walls of a hospital but also within the hospital grounds, within the larger perimeters of a hospital, thus allowing the establishment of a separate clinic, provided it is within those hospital grounds. The Right to Life people, who have been such vociferous and aggressive lobbyists on this occasion, have made this point but faintly, being understandably not anxious, to concede the legal possibility of any clinic at all being able to be established in the Territory. But some others, however, have made the point rather more vigorously. I suspect that it will be seized upon with some considerable vigour in the course of this debate during the day, especially, I understand, by my friend and colleague,  Senator Tate,  who seems to have stumbled on this point with all the sense of discovery and excitement of Balboa discovering the Pacific or perhaps, more appropriately, Tasman discovering Van Diemen 's land. 
What is to be said in response to this kind of argument? As a lawyer, let me concede right at the outset that that point is certainly arguable. It might even be accepted by a court. I know that only too well all sorts of implausible propositions are accepted by courts these days; but it is certainly not clear beyond any doubt, and this is the key point I want to emphasise. The first point to make about the matter in appreciating this argument is that in common usage I suggest that the expression 'at a hospital' carries very different connotations from the expression 'at a clinic'. Certainly the connotations of 'at a hospital' are obviously different from the connotations of 'at a private clinic'. 
Perhaps so. Let me deal with that point. I suggest that although other interpretations are possible, in common usage the expression 'at a hospital' would also be construed as being different from the notion of 'in a public clinic' particularly if that clinic is run outside the hospital walls, albeit within the hospital grounds. This would especially be the case if the particular clinic, as here, is under separate administration and has an entirely different staff, that is, if it is not just perceived to be some sort of physical arm of the main hospital administration. 
Under those circumstances I suggest that it is a perfectly reasonable, ordinary, common language interpretation of that clause to read the expression 'at a hospital' as conveying something very different from the notion 'at a clinic', bearing in mind the kind of clinic we are talking about here. This is how, I suggest, nearly all laymen would read this clause, and indeed have read it, at first blush. Certainly it is the way  Senator Ryan  has read it, in good faith all along, and I venture to suggest that this is how most lawyers would read it. Let me make another point. It certainly appears to be the way the Minister and the Government have read this clause. The Minister, in all his many and various statements to the Parliament, to individual senators and to the world at large, to my knowledge has made no suggestion at all that a public clinic could be established under the present Ordinance. What he has done is make absolutely clear his unwillingness to establish such a clinic, despite the recommendations of the Legislative Assembly, or to regard the Ordinance as in any way requiring him to do so. 
I suggest that the Senate is entitled not to be convinced that the Ordinance before us allows for the adoption of the Assembly recommendations. It does not say so, obviously, in so many words. It is hopelessly inexplicit in terms of its ability to convey the notion that it is referring to clinics as well as to hospitals. And there is a very real doubt, I suggest, as to whether a court would hold the Ordinance to extend its operation in that way. If we take seriously the principle of decision-making by the Australian Capital Territory people and the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, which the Minister originally acknowledged and which he was obviously prepared to take seriously, we should make it possible for the people of the Territory to get the explicit ordinance, the understandable ordinance, that in fact they want and not the present Ordinance, which could mean anything or nothing in its application to public clinics. The new ordinance should fully, clearly and explicitly spell out its adoption of the main body of the Legislative Assembly recommendations or at least such of them as are appropriate for inclusion in an ordinance. 
Let me turn now to the second legal point, which is the one that has been exercising the minds of most honourable senators in contemplating the difficulties of the motion before the House. I refer to the effect of a disallowance if it is accomplished by a vote here today. The argument, of course, as I have already foreshadowed, is as follows: Has  Senator Ryan  not created by her disallowance motion, if successful, one of the very results which she says she does not want to achieve and in fact which she most wants to avoid? Has she established the pre-conditions for the establishment of private clinics in the ACT? Again as I foreshadowed and as the Minister has foreshadowed, that consequence is said to flow from the language of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910 which makes it clear that if an ordinance is disallowed no subsequent ordinance which covers the same basic ground can be put to the Senate within six months unless certain other steps are taken. I will come to those other steps in a moment because they are crucial to the answering of this argument. 
To clarify the situation I concede right at the outset that if this disallowance motion succeeds no ordinance will be left in existence and there will be no prohibition accomplished by law of any kind of clinic, including private clinics. It follows that the language in section 7 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act that it is also true, as I have just said, that no further ordinance which is the same in substance can be made within six months unless certain things happen. The way to answer this is to make clearly and unequivocally understood what ought, after all, to be already understood; that is, that our intention,  Senator Ryan's  intention and the intention of everyone, I imagine, who will be supporting her motion is that certain things will happen to correct the vacuum situation which will obviously and concededly be created if this disallowance motion is passed. It has always been part of  Senator Ryan's  position that further positive action should be taken, and indeed would be taken, in the aftermath of a successful disallowance motion. It has always been part of her understanding that the Government would not be irresponsible or cynical enough simply to let the matter rest there and to take no remedial and no further positive action in the aftermath of a successful disallowance motion. I hope that does not demonstrate another example of the naivety of which some of her correspondents apparently have been prone to accuse her. Surely even this Government would not be so irresponsible. 
Surely it would take one of the kinds of action that are legally open to it. Surely, however reluctant it is to embody in an ordinance or in other ways the other recommendations of the A.C.T. Legislative Assembly, in the light of everything that both the opponents and proponents of the motion have been saying, it would not be irresponsible enough not to take the action legally open to it at least to prohibit the establishment of private abortion clinics. 
What action then is legally open to the Government to fill this vacuum which, it is acknowledged, will arise if this motion is passed? There has been an extraordinary parade of obfuscation and misrepresentation attending the discussions and representations we have all had on this matter. The situation, which was partly acknowledged by what  Senator Guilfoyle  said this morning, is that at least four different routes are available in one way or another to the Government to solve the problems which will arise if this motion is passed. There are four different ways of filling to a greater or lesser extent the vacuum that will arise. The first of them is that the Government could simply take the view that any new ordinance which dealt with those recommendations ofthe A.C.T. Legislative Assembly that are legally appropriate for inclusion in an ordinance would not be in law an ordinance 'the same in substance' as the present ordinance. That is a course which would be open to the Government. It could take that particular view and promulgate a new ordinance accordingly. Without going into all the detail of the analysis of that argument, let me simply say that it is a possible way through the dilemma. But I concede that on this particular question the law is by no means clear. The one High Court pronouncement on this subject is just not clear on what is meant by one ordinance being wholly or partly the same in substance as another. It is a matter of doubt how one applies that particular criteria and, as a result, that would leave any new ordinance of the kind I have suggested open to legal challenge, which challenge, even if ultimately unsuccessful, would leave the position uncertain for a considerable time. As a result I anticipate that that course would not be especially attractive to the Government as a practical matter. Albeit that it is unattractive, it is one of the courses that is open. It is the first answer to those who say: 'When you have a disallowance situation you have a vacuum, you have got yourself a brand new crisis and there is no way out of the impasse '. One way out of it is the way I have just mentioned. 
The second way is that the Government could take action before this matter actually comes to a vote. It has had this option available to it for some considerable time now since  Senator Ryan  first gave notice that a disallowance motion would be moved. The Government could take action simply to repeal the existing ordinance and substitute one that reflects more accurately the feelings and the wishes of the ACT Legislative Assembly and the ACT people, which feelings and wishes were stated, after all, as I keep saying, as a result of the Minister's undertaking to respect any decision made. It may be that as a practical matter there are only a few hours left for this course to be adopted, although from the length of the list of speakers it may be that the Government will have rather more time than that. 
The point is that it should not go unremarked that this option has been open to the Government ever since  Senator Ryan  first gave notice of her motion several weeks ago. It is just not true, as  Mr Hunt  has intimated in various of his communications, that the Government essentially has no choice except to sit helplessly by and wait, after disallowance, for the so-called vacuum to fade away after a period of six months, unless the Senate acted after the disallowance. 
The third course of action that is open is for the Senate to employ the procedures which are actually laid down in sub-sections (a) and (b) of section 7 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act to which I have referred, the course of action being, in the case of a disallowance motion having been passed, for the Senate to pass a recision motion of the kind which has now been foreshadowed by  Senator Rae. Senator Rae's  exercise and the talk of those who favour that course of action have been much misunderstood, but really I suggest that the course of action is perfectly simple. As is the case here, I hope, it means that where the Senate is unhappy with an existing ordinance, wants a new ordinance made in its place but wants part of the new ordinance to be the same in substance as at least one provision of the old ordinance, the Senate can move a motion which entitles the Government to do what it otherwise might not be able to do within a six months period. In the present context that means that the Government would be able, without waiting six months, to make a new ordinance which overlapped the existing one to the extent that- hopefully along with many other things- it contained a provision prohibiting the establishment of private abortion clinics. 
The exercise is simply one, as  Senator Hamer  would understand, of clearing the decks. I am not sure about his colleagues, including the noisy one sitting in front of him. If  Senator Lewis  could bring himself to concentrate for another two minutes, although I know that that is difficult, he would understand that it is not a matter of undoing with the one hand what somehow has just been done with the other. That has manifestly not been understood in anything that  Senator Lewis  has previously contributed to the discussions in this chamber or outside it. Rather, it is a question of clearing the path of a possible legal obstruction and enabling a positive step forward to be taken. I have no doubt that the Government- although I do have increasing doubt in the light of the exchange I have just had- basically would be responsible enough, once the path is cleared in this way, to fill the vacuum in the way indicated by the Senate. 
The final option- the fourth option in the list- is for the following action to be taken: The Government or a private member could introduce a Bill- I hope that  Senator Lewis  understands what that means- for the purpose of implementing the recommendations of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. Filling the vacuum in that way unquestionably would be enough to override the effects of any other existing ordinance or lack of ordinance. There would be legally no question as to the effects of such a Bill once it were enacted. It would clearly, as I said, override any other existing provision. It would certainly override the six months prohibition provision in the Seat of Government (Administration) Act. Such a Bill unquestionably would enable among other things, private abortion clinics to be banned. The further point that perhaps needs to be noted is that any such Bill could be made retrospective to the date of the passing of the disallowance motion- presumably today. So there would be no question of any difficulty arising because of the length of time that is might take for such a Bill to get through both chambers. The only real doubt one has about the utility of the Bill method is the response of our colleagues in the House of Representatives who I am not sure would thank us for involving them in the kind of lobbying controversy to which all of us have been exposed over the last few weeks. 
The point I want to make is this: There are ways through the apparent impasse. There are ways which certainly, as conceded by  Senator Guilfoyle  this morning in this place, are known to the Government. There are ways which, if they were properly explained- and they need to be explained carefully to some honourable senators- would be capable of being understood by members of this Parliament and certainly by the community as a whole. There are ways which will ensure that no private clinics are opened in the next six months at least, or thereafter if that is the desire. Finally and crucially, because this is the central point of the debate, there are ways of clearing this impasse which will ensure that the will of the Australian Capital Territory people, as reflected in the Legislative Assembly recommendations, will prevail in the way that the Minister promised they would. That after all, to return to the point at which I began, is what this debate is all about. That is why this motion, together with the explanatory addendum which I have moved as an amendment, should be supported by the Senate. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is the amendment seconded? 
In this third anniversary week, I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister for an answer to one of those numerous unanswered questions in relation to the events of 11 November 1975. I ask him whether  Mr Fraser  's advice in support of his request to  Sir John  Kerr for a double dissolution on that day was in oral or written form. If it was in written form, when will that advice be tabled in this Parliament as was done with the Prime Ministers' advice and the Governor-Generals' decisions respectively after the 1914, 1951 and 1974 double dissolutions? 
-I seek a ministerial response on three matters which arise under the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department. The first matter concerns a question which I raised in this chamber a week ago when speaking on the subject of legal aid. I have also made it the subject of a question on notice to the Minister; so far without response. It concerns the important question of the level of funds committed, as the expression goes, for legal aid offices to use for the purposes of referring matters to private legal practitioners. Briefly, the situation is that the commitment level provided for this financial year in the Budget was $ 12.2m. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  in his statement to the House on 26 October, acknowledged that there was a backlog of some $333,000 nationally. This means that the offices had used up their commitment beyond current levels to a sum of that order. 
The Attorney-General in his statement said that he would release commitment funds to enable the present backlog to be taken up. The question on which I seek a response from the Minister, have done in the past and persist in doing so now, is whether this means that the commitment level for this financial year, viewed in total, will be increased from the original $ 12.2m by that sum of $333,000 so that the working commitment level which the legal aid offices can now rely on for the whole financial year in fact will not be $ 12.2m but a sum of the order of $12. 53m? I would appreciate a specific response to that narrow but very important question on the administration of legal aid. 
The second matter on which I seek a response is almost minute in terms of the financial impost that it would involve if the Government were prepared to outlay the sum in question. But I think the question does raise a quite significant matter of principle. My question concerns a matter that was raised in the course of the Estimates Committee hearings. I refer the Minister in this respect to the relevant  Hansard  transcript of 13 October at pages 325 and 326. The matter relates to the provision by the Government to Australian university law schools of transcripts of argument in constitutional cases which was raised at that stage of the Committee's hearings. That question has been the subject now of a follow-up written reply which I think was tabled by the  Chairman  of the Committee yesterday. 
Briefly, the situation is that back in July 1975 the then Labor Attorney-General,  Mr Enderby,  approved the supply to university law schools of such transcript of constitutional litigation. But with the change of government, before the scheme had been implemented, the new Attorney-General, the present Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Ellicott,  decided against the implementation of the scheme. As a result, no such transcript has been made available to any university law school. The order of magnitude that we are talking about is transcript for some 10 or 12 constitutional cases, because that is all that are, being heard per annum by the High Court. It now appears from the written reply that we are given that the cost to the universities of purchasing such transcript is quite high based on the Government's current pricing policy of charging for zeroxes of all such public documents at a rate of 50c a page. The cost to university law schools on that basis would be of the order of $9,620. However, the actual cost to the Government of providing such transcript would be the minute sum of$l,815. 
I ask the Attorney-General: Why on earth has the Government been so mean spirited as both to reverse the original decision of the Labor Government in this respect and, indeed, to maintain that policy subsequently. I fear that there might be reasons behind this which go further than simply its cash aspect. There would appear to be three possible reasons. One is that it would be too expensive given the current Government's obsessive preoccupation with Budget ceilings. The second possible explanation is that such material would be of no conceivable utility to anyone, or at least would not be of such utility as would outweigh the expenditure of such a sum of money. The third possible explanation is that the provision of such material to university law schools, researchers and their students, somehow would be inappropriate. 
If the third explanation is the one that in fact is motivating the Government, this would appear to raise quite a serious issue of principle. As I have said, looking at each of those possible explanations in turn, it does not appear credible that the cost factor, some $1,800 in any given year in terms of actual moneys having to be expended by the Government, could really be the crucial consideration when we are talking of estimates for the Attorney-General's Department totalling some $78,604,000. As to the question of the usefulness of such material, I suggest to the Attorney-General that this can hardly be in doubt, even though we are advised in the written answer supplied to the Estimates Committee that the previous Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott,  did mention that he personally doubted the worth of the transcripts to law schools as objects of research. 
Might I suggest that, if  Mr Ellicott  was indeed of that opinion, he was rather sadly mistaken because the utility of such transcript in litigation of this kind to law school teachers and students is very great indeed. It provides a great opportunity to understand and appreciate the art of advocacy as practised in the highest court in the land at supposedly the highest level which that art attains and, indeed, in matters of the greatest possible significance, both for the legal system and for Australia as a whole. It would contribute also much to students' and researchers' understanding of the dynamics of adjudication, as it were- the process of opinion formulation by High Court judges as it emerges with tentative questions and answers becoming more certain in the course of argument. It is of very great interest to legal researchers and analysts of High Court decisions to be able to compare the opinions, or judgments as they finally come down, with the nature of the arguments that have been given and the material that has been put to the judges in the course of argument. Very often it appears- sometimes regrettably, sometimes rather less so- that the basis of the judgment as finally handed down varies quite considerably from the nature of the argument and the content of the argument that is put during the course of the court proceedings. 
I also make the more general point that to improve in any way the community's knowledge, through at least its professional members, of the operation and dynamics of the High Court is something hardly to be sneezed at. It is becoming increasingly recognised, particularly with the more dramatic events of recent years, that the High Court is an institution playing a role of significance in our political and governmental system which is at least on a par with the significance of this Parliament and which in many ways is a role which is approaching the significance of the Executive. Any way that assists people to come to grips with the way that that organisation works and to understand it can hardly be regarded as a matter without utility. 
That leads one to the suggestion, which I now put to the Attorney-General, that the guiding motivation for this so-called budgetary decision might well have been the third possible explanation, namely, that the Government or those people whose advice the Government took regarded the provision of such transcript to law schools as being somehow inappropriate. I have been led to understand- I communicated this understanding to the Minister in the course of the Estimates Committee proceedings- that at least one of the High Court justices had taken the view that it was inappropriate or wrong for students to be exposed to the argument that takes place in the High Court before such argument has been shaped up or the High Court judges' opinions have reached final fruition in the form of their final written opinions. That that is so was not disconfirmed by anything which was said in the written reply to which I referred, in which it is acknowledged that the Chief Justice made some comment upon this whole issue. Indeed, we are told: 
The Chief Justice has expressed the view that transcripts of argument are made to enable Justices to refresh their recollection when considering judgment. 
The fact that the Chief Justice took that particular view of the function of transcript rather suggests that he was also of the view, as I suggested might have been possible, that the provision of this material to law school academics, researchers and students, was bad; that it would give them misconceived ideas of the nature of the judicial process; and that perhaps not only would it make them excessively willing to criticise High Court judges for what they produced in their final opinions, which these academics are prone enough to do at the moment, but also might it tempt them to start using the text of what fell from judges in the course of argument as further grounds for criticising them. If this indeed is the kind of thinking that lies behind this petty and rather small-minded governmental decision, it would appear, that our judges are demonstrating a quite extraordinary sensitivity to criticism and a quite inappropriate sensitivity given the importance of the position that they hold. They ought to be considerably more robust. As their contribution to creating greater community awareness of what they are about, they certainly should not pose any barriers to the dispersement of this kind of material. 
The third matter which I briefly seek to put before the Attorney-General and get a response from him, is in relation to a matter which was debated also at the hearing of Estimates Committee B of 10 October. The relevant exchange appears at page 80 of  Hansard.  The question arose concerning the guidelines applied by the Attorney-General in determining what legal costs would be met by the Government in relation to certain conciliation and arbitration proceedings, in particular intra-union disputes. The Attorney-General and his officers indicated that there had been some recent tightening up of the guidelines which had been applicable in this area. The Attorney-General further indicated that he would give consideration to making a detailed public statement as to the content and operation of these guidelines. In relation to this particular point, I ask the Attorney-General: Has he finally made up his mind whether he is going to make such a statement? If so, when can we expect it to be made? 
I seek a specific ministerial response concerning a matter which arises out of the estimates of the Department of Trade and Resources and which relates to the appointment of the Uranium Advisory Council. It is now something like eight months since  Mr Anthony  announced that he expected in the near future to invite individuals to be members of the Uranium Advisory Council, yet no announcement of any kind in this respect has been made by the Minister to date. Indeed, it became clear from the evidence of the officers of his Department at the Estimates committee discussions that little progress had been made in selecting appropriate members, that indeed little thought had been given as to how the Council, once established, would operate. This cannot but lead one to suspect that the Government just does not want any independent scrutiny of its uranium policy and decisions. 
One notices in particular in this respect that the Ranger agreement itself and the nuclear safeguards agreements which have now been entered into with the Philippines and Finland have all been finalised without the advice of the Uranium Advisory Council or the scrutiny by that Council of the proposed terms of the agreements in question- this, despite the various problems that have emerged and the many criticisms that have been made in relation to the method of reaching these respective agreements, and their content. Therefore, I ask the Minister specifically: When can we expect the Uranium Advisory Council to be appointed, set on foot, and established on an on-going, proper basis? 
I wish to make three short points in relation to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission estimates which appear under the Department of National Development. The first point concerns the research function of that Commission. There is now to be an inquiry into the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. It was announced by the Minister on 2 November. However, that inquiry has several manifest faults in that it fails to go far enough in reviewing the work of the Commission and leaves virtually untouched the non-research functions of the Commission. The terms of reference direct the review to look at ways to expand the Commission's energy research role; the focus is very much on the expansion of that role even though for some time there has been- this emerged again in the course of the Estimates Committee hearings- some considerable criticism of the quality of the AAEC research. The question has loomed very largely in scientific discussion whether the AAEC should be actually reduced in status in this area to the extent that its currently quite dominant role in Australian atomic energy research should be reduced. The further point I make with respect to that inquiry is that manifestly, because of its importance to the community as a whole, it should be a public inquiry and not an internal inquiry as now appears to be proposed. 
The second point that I make about the Commission goes to the staffing of the Commission. This is a matter which has been raised in one of its guises by both  Senator Rae  and  Senator Young.  I draw the Senate's attention to the further specific information which has been supplied in written form by the departmental officers. This material is on page 83 of the document and indicates- among other things- that the appointment of another six staff members engaged in isotope production and the manufacture of radio pharmaceuticals and the provision of irradiation services would result in a revenue gain per annum of the order of $350,000. On no view could the staff costs involved, given perhaps some additional overheads, come to anything like that sum. 
That point is well taken by  Senator Young  and deserves to be repeated. I join with him in pressing the Minister and his Department on that particular matter. 
May I mention also under the heading of staffing that there has been a great deal of concern expressed by the relevant union, the Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draughtsmen of Australia, that the staff ceilings and staff cuts which have been imposed at the Atomic Energy Commission research establishments are adversely affecting a variety of areas of work including safety operations and certainly including environmental controls and studies. Again, these concerns were not alleviated by the evidence which was heard by the Estimates Committee. I suggest that, if the Government were as genuinely concerned about nuclear safety and environmental responsibility as it purports to be, this would be an absolute priority area for its attention and would be at the top of its priority list in terms of additional staff rather than as shown here, apparently at the bottom, and one of the first areas to be adversely affected by the operation of the present staff ceilings. 
The third point that I make about the Australian Atomic Energy Commission is that it certainly appeared from the detailed discussion at the Estimates Committee, which I do not here rehearse with any elaboration, that the Australian Safeguards Office is a complete farce and charade. It is a creature of the Government's public relations machine rather than something which has any obvious useful role to play in either the formulation or implementation of Australian nuclear policy in the very sensitive safeguards area. It is and must remain a matter of concern that the Australian Safeguards Office clearly is not perceived to be in any way independent of the governmental structure; it is absorbed within the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. But, what is more immediately pertinent, as appeared from the Estimates Committee hearings, is that its functions are extremely unclear and its staffing absolutely derisory. It has a present staff of four people and that apparently is not proposed to be increased in any way in the present financial year notwithstanding that we have been led by Government publicity on this subject to anticipate that that agency would have an absolutely essential and strategic role in the formulation and implementation of the Government's nuclear policy. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) When the High Court's principal seat is established in Canberra will the Court continue to make even occasional visits to the more distant States. 
Will the Justices live in Canberra. 
3 ) Will the numbers of the Court remain at seven. 
What changes, if any, will be made in relation to the Executive Government's role and the Court's own role on matters of Court administration. 
Will appointments to the Court reflect regional interests and provide regional representation. 
Will appointments to the Court remain the sole prerogative of the Federal Government. 
Will steps be taken to amend the Constitution to enable the Court to give advisory opinions, as was strongly suggested at the recent Constitutional Convention held in Perth. 
Did the Attorney-General tell the 75th Anniversary Sitting of the High Court on 6 October 1978, that these matters 'should desirably be solved as soon as possible'. If so, when does he propose to state the Government's attitude thereon. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
Did the Australian National Group consult any of the following groups before making its nominations of candidates for the International Court of Justice: (a) the High Court; (b) legal faculties and schools of law; and (c) national academies and national sections of international academies devoted to the study of law, in accordance with the recommendations of Article 6 of the Statute of the International Court. If not, which, if any, individual judges, academies and lawyers from those groups were consulted. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
Did the Attorney-General announce in Estimates Committee B on 13 October 1978, that the commitment allocation in respect of matters referred to private practitioners for 1 978-79 was $ 1 2.2 million. 
Did he announce in the Senate on 26 October 1978 that to meet a then backlog in the Australian Legal Aid Office of $333,684, he had 'directed that commitment funds be made available to meet their cases in each State '. 
Has the Commitment Allocation for 1978-79 been increased to $12,533,684 or some other amount, in view of this later announcement; if so, to what amount; if not, why not. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it true as reported in this morning's  Australian  that the British Government has snubbed Australian requests to remove waste plutonium buried at Maralinga in that it has failed to respond to Australian requests to this effect by the required deadline of 7 November or, indeed, at all? If this is so, and if the British Government continues to remain unbeguiled by the subtleties of Australian diplomacy, what other plans does the Australian Government have in mind for the safeguarding of this material? 
I am indebted to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  for giving me at least that much of an answer. But I would seek from him, even at this late hour, an assurance that, given the present staff ceilings situation which we have been told about so often, the additional resources to man the Administrative Appeals Tribunal at a satisfactory level for this and other areas will be found within the lifetime of this Government. I seek a more specific indication from him as to when, on present indications, he anticipates that the Government will be in a position to make this proclamation? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Given the ideological and political leadership traditionally given to the Liberal Party by the Victorian Division of that Party, when can we expect last weekend 's vote in favour of the restoration of capital punishment by the Victorian State Council of the Liberal Party to be reflected in moves by the Federal Government to reintroduce that barbaric punishment into Federal law? 
I am unhappy with clause 17 (6) of the Export Expansion Grants Bill 1978 as it presently stands. I suggest that the Senate and the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  ought to be unhappy with it. It is the procedural provision relating to rights of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. As this clause was originally introduced into the House of Representatives it was in the commendably brief form as follows: 
Applications may be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for review of decisions of the Board that have been confirmed or varied under sub-section (4). 
What happened, however, at the Committee stage of this Bill in the other place is that an amendment was moved at the instance of the Government, which inserted in the clause the following additional words:  on or after a date to be fixed by proclamation. 
The only explanation that was offered in support of that amendment by the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland),  who was in charge of the Bill, appears in the legislation committee  Hansard  of 25 October. The Minister said: 
The purpose of allowing this Part to be brought into effect by proclamation is that it is intended that the Administrative Appeals Tribunal shall be the body of appeal. However the Government has been advised by the AAT that it is not yet ready to handle such appeals and so that at this stage it is proposed to put this flexibility into the Bill. 
This question was not further debated either in the legislation committee or in the House of Representatives. Nor has it not been further adverted to in this chamber, except by the AttorneyGeneral in his second reading speech, when it was said, rather misleadingly, that there would be additional provisions to permit appeals against the Export Development Grants Board's decisions to be heard by an independent body, the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. I suggest to the Minister that that statement is true only in the most formal sense and that the right of appeal granted by the Bill as it now stands is quite empty and illusory and will remain so until it is proclaimed and put into effect. We have been given no indication, and I would seek such indication from the Minister, as to when this proclamation is likely to be made. It will be noted that there is no provision for such a proclamation, when made, to be retrospective in its effect, so the reality is that adverse decisions received by claimants under this Bill by the Board will go on being completely unappealable until such time as the proclamation is made, and even then it will not be possible for appeals relating to the earlier period to be taken to the Tribunal. I would contend that that situation is consonant with quite a degree of injustice to individual claimants in what is obviously a very sensitive area. 
Might I just say generally on this subject that the pace of the extension of the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal has been disappointingly slow in the period since the establishment of that body. We do have at the moment what can be described only as a rag-tag and bob-tail collection of matters presently vested within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. Certainly, the present list is not as extensive as was recommended back in 1973 by the Bland Committee. I suggest to the Attorney-General that before asking this chamber to accept a clause in these terms he might well tell us- he should feel under an obligation to tell us- just what it is that justifies this action being taken and this provision in fact being inserted. Perhaps he might tell us just what is the anticipated rate of appeals under this legislation which will produce, apparently, a very substantial workload for the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Perhaps he might also be kind enough to tell us just what it is that is so unduly occupying and busying the 
Administrative Appeals Tribunal as presently constituted, given its present somewhat limited jurisdiction, as would make it impossible, or difficult at least, to take on this additional load. 
I for one would need to be persuaded by the Attorney-General- I would need to be persuaded very convincingly- that the Tribunal as presently constituted is unable to cope effectively with its present body of work. I would want to be persuaded that it will be in a position to cope very shortly indeed with such additional body of work as is contemplated by these appeals. I would wish to be further persuaded that, when the Tribunal is ready to assume this jurisdiction, the proclamation will be made very quickly. I would wish to be persuaded of all these aspects before accepting the clause in its present very unsatisfactory form. I seek a fairly extensive answer from the Attorney-General on this question. I would hope that the Senate as a whole thinks likewise that such an answer is required. 
I would appreciate, in response to that reply, some more detailed indication from the Government of what in its view would constitute proper activity on the part of a union official. The parameters of propriety may well be thought to be somewhat flexible and, indeed, somewhat narrow in the general attitude of this Government to industrial relations questions. It would be appreciated if some more detailed response were forthcoming on the Government's attitude to the particular criterion to which the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  referred. 
-There is a further question which arises with respect to the disciplinary provisions of this Bill and to which I would appreciate some response from the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney).  It concerns proposed Subdivision D, which relates to the position of unattached officers. Is the Minister aware of a degree of concern which has been expressed by at least some Public Service unions, in particular the Professional Officers Association, as to the possible use of these provisions to embarrass and generally make life difficult for those unattached officers of the Service who are in fact employed as full time public service union officials? I understand that a number of unattached officers satisfy that description. I refer the Minister in particular to proposed section 63J (2), which states: 
For the purposes of this Subdivision, an unattached officer shall be taken to have failed to fulfil his duty as an unattached officer if, and only if, while he is an unattached officer he engages in improper conduct, being conduct which brings the Service into disrepute. 
It may well be thought that the aggressive performance by an official of his duties on behalf of his members may constitute in some eyes at least- perhaps in some official eyes- behaviour which brings the Service into disrepute to the extent that vigorous criticism is advanced about the conduct of the Service as a whole and particular sections thereof. Given, on the face of it, the potential applicability of this proposed section and the very wide terms in which it is drafted to officers satisfying this description, what assurance is the Minister able to give the Senate that the proposed section either is not capable of being applied in this way or alternatively will not under any circumstances be applied in this way against the class of officers to whom I have referred? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
1 ) What foreign policy considerations were brought to the attention ofthe Australian National Group which was responsible for nominating candidates to the International Court of Justice. 
Who were the candidates on which the Minister's Department reported to the Group, and from what countries did they come. 
I am indebted to  Senator Missen  for his kind remarks about the contributions made by  Senator Tate  and me to these reports. For myself, I regard that contribution as nothing out of the ordinary. These reports, like so many others that emerge from the Senate committee system, are very much the product of a team effort by all members and staff of committees. Here, as elsewhere, I have been very pleased to note that partisan considerations have been quite submerged in the desire of all members to make a constructive contribution to the solution of difficult and important problems. I would not wish  Senator Missen  's reference to the legal input of  Senator Tate  and myself- we are both, after all, lawyers and, what is worse, constitutional lawyers and even worse still, former academic lawyers- to mislead anyone into thinking that these reports are just a lawyer's exercise of the usual exotic, technical and, for the most part, unintelligible kind to which lawyers are prone. They are very much more important than that. 
I acknowledge the force of what  Senator Melzer  has said. I hope that these reports before us will be counter examples of that phenomenon rather than illustrative of it. As I say, these reports are very much more important. I venture to say that the report concerning the scrutiny of Bills is one of the most important ever to be presented to this chamber. It might seem extravagant to claim that a proposal to create a new committee of this Senate could be very important to anyone given the positive sea of committees in which we are all presently immersed. 
We are seeking, as  Senator Missen  explained, to make a major innovation in our legislative machinery, one which should enormously improve and enhance the quality and in many ways the legitimacy of all the legislation produced by this Parliament, whichever party is in power. The reality, as all of us are only too well aware, is that there is far too little effective scrutiny of the details of Bills that pass through our hands. Perhaps new members such as  Senator Tate, Senator Puplick  and I are most aware of this because we have not yet had time to be anaesthetised by familiarity against the deficiencies in the system in this respect. The problem is not so much with the major clauses of Bills which are central to the policy of the legislation to which the Government of the day has committed itself. They are announced as such and attract Opposition attention, and they do tend to be fully debated in the chambers. Rather, the problem is with all the rest of the provisions, the subordinate provisions, the machinery provisions and the procedural provisions which are not necessarily at the very heart of the Bills which come before us but which, nonetheless, are very much part of the total legislative package with which the community is presented each time legislation is passed. All too often there are such provisions which, as  Senator Missen  has said, trespass unduly on individual rights and liberties or which amount to undue delegations of parliamentary authority in one or other of the ways  Senator Missen  outlined. 
As long ago as 1931 the Parliament and the Senate recognised the necessity for some more effective scrutiny procedure of regulations and ordinances. The Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, which was created in that year and functions effectively to this day, became a model which was praised, emulated and adopted throughout the parliamentary world. It has been adopted in nearly every country and every State within countries where the Westminster system or variants of it have prevailed. It has taken us a very long time to recognise and come to grips with the necessity for creating a similar piece of machinery to deal not just with subordinate legislation but also with principal legislation. With the ever-increasing number of Bills coming before us this has become as big a problem area in practice as subordinate legislation has ever been. It is my hope, and the hope of all the Committee members, that the recommendation of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for the establishment of a joint committee on the scrutiny of Bills will be adopted by this Parliament and that in due course, just as with the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, it will become a model that will be equally widely praised and adopted throughout the Westminster parliamentary world. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-The Senate does not need me or the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to tell it what an unhappy chain of backsliding has been involved in the Commonwealth's dealings with the Aurukun and Mornington Island communities over the last few months. I make that remark in no partisan spirit. The tale is an unhappy one and it has been told many times already in this chamber. What the Senate may need to be told, and what the Committee tries to set out in this report, is that a large number of legislative alternatives are available to the Commonwealth should it be minded to act more positively and effectively than it has in the past to protect the rights, interests, cultures and lifestyles not only of the Aurukun and Mornington Island communities but of all the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander reserve communities in Queensland. 
I might add that nearly all the Committee's reasoning is in fact applicable elsewhere, but our terms of reference were such as to direct us specifically to the Queensland situation. It is to that State that the report is accordingly directed. The question of alternatives has been constantly fudged and muddled in ministerial statements, and indeed in the contributions of nearly everyone to this debate. Wildly varying figures, ranging from as low as $500,000 to as extravagantly high as $ 1,000m have been thrown around as the price of Commonwealth intervention in the Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander reserves. Indeed, the very existence of the Commonwealth's constitutional powers to act in this area has been called into question. 
In an endeavour to untangle and clarify what has become a very muddled situation, the Committee 's report does four things: First of all, it gives a detailed analysis, for really the first time in the legal literature, of the nature, scope and extent of section 51 (xxvi) of the Constitution, which of course empowers the Commonwealth to make laws with respect to the people of any race for whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws. That power was conferred upon the Commonwealth in those terms in the 1967 constitutional referendum. Our conclusion in respect of that particular power is that it is such as to fully enable the Commonwealth to act in any conceivable way that it might wish to in conferring self-management rights on Aborigines and Tones Strait Islanders in Queensland. 
The second thing that the report does is to give a full account of the relevance and application of section 5 1 (xxxi) of the Constitution, which sets out the power of the Commonwealth to acquire property on just terms. The third thing that the report does is to make a detailed analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the present Commonwealth legislation in this area- the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-Management) Act 1978. In that respect we make certain suggestions as to how the all too obvious weaknesses of that Act could be remedied so that it might in fact in the future produce a reasonably viable basis for future Commonwealth legislative action in this area. Fourthly, what we do in the report is to list a series of alternative courses of legislative action in which the Commonwealth could constitutionally engage so as to secure effective self-management rights for Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders in Queensland. 

 Senator Missen in his remarks has identified in detail what some of those options are and there is no need for me to repeat them, except to say that they cover the whole canvas, from modes of control falling short of proprietary rights, through various kinds of familiar proprietary rights, including freehold and leasehold acquisitions, to various other forms of lesser proprietary rights which can indeed be created by statute should the Commonwealth choose to so do. I hope that one of the major contributions of the report in this respect will be to untangle in people's minds the almost universal confusion which seems to apply with respect to mineral rights. What the report does is to explain- I hope in such a way that even  Senator Melzer  will be able to appreciate it- the nature and diversity of these rights, how they are capable of being conferred in various degrees, and how indeed the cost of acquiring them will vary in accordance with just what degree of mineral rights is sought to be secured. 
This is not, of course, the time to expound these points further or to debate the respective merits of these various options. I simply urge both the Senate and the Government to study very carefully indeed the range of options which the Committee has identified. I further hope that in all future discussions of what on earth we are to do to alleviate the distress of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people of Queensland, to whom we owe so much, we will remain very fully aware of just how flexible and just how wide ranging those options are.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted. 
I rise not to speak on any policy issue underlying this Bill but on a matter which I submit is equally appropriate for a house of review to contemplate- the question of the constitutional validity of this Bill if it is enacted in its present form. The question arises under section 55 of the Constitution which states, in part: 
Laws imposing taxation shall deal only with the imposition of taxation, and any provision therein dealing with any other matter shall be of no effect. 
This, of course, is the basis on which, over many years now, with the effective approval, if not the direction, of the High Court to this effect, assessment Acts have been traditionally distinguished in their presentation from taxing Acts properly so called. Against this background I draw the attention of the Senate to the existence of the Customs Tariff Act 1966 which already makes provision for taxing the kind of packaging which is very much an issue in this legislation. Section 1 5 of the 
Customs Tariff Act is the general section which imposes duties of customs in accordance with the detailed schedules. The First Schedule of that Act, item 44.2 1 , makes specific provision with respect to both a general rate and a preferential rate for wooden packaging of the kind that is in issue here. I think that the currently applicable general rate under that schedule is 22.5 per cent. The Second Schedule of the Act, item 12, is the exempting provision and that makes it clear that such outside packaging is entirely exempt under the terms at least of the Customs Tariff Act and that no duty is applicable. It counterbalances, as it were, the effect of the general duty imposing provision in the First Schedule. 
The Customs Tariff Act is the Act in the package of customs legislation which always has been thought to be, and properly so, the Act which actually imposes the respective levels of duty on particular classes of goods. What we are dealing with here is an amendment to the Customs Act 1901 which, of course, is the Act which deals with just about everything except the actual imposition of taxing rates. It deals with assessment procedures, the administration of customs and with innumerable other aspects associated with customs. What we now have is an amendment to the Customs Act 1910 which, when read in conjunction with the amendment attempted along the same lines in 1976, will have the effect of bringing outside packaging within the dutiable value of imported goods. The result is that packaging of the kind that is in question here now will be dutiable at quite substantial rates- indeed, at the rates that are applicable to the particular class of goods around which the packaging is established. In the case, for example, of car parts brought into Australia for the purpose of assembly, the duty that is now applicable, if it has not recently risen, is of the order of 35 per cent. The effect of this amendment to the Customs Act would be to make such packaging surrounding car assembly components dutiable at that higher rate. 
Bringing all this together, the suggestion has been made to me- it seems to be a point of some considerable validity and certainly is strongly arguable- that the result of the provision we are now asked to enact is a Bill which could be construed by the courts and indeed is likely to be construed, as itself imposing taxation. I suggest that this legislation is itself imposing the rate of tax on packaging which is applicable to the particular goods it surrounds. The argument then becomes that this provision is intended to appear in the Customs Act, not in the Customs Tariff Act. In other words it is to appear in an Act which, in the language of section 55 of the Constitution, cannot be said on any view to be an Act which imposes taxation and does nothing else. 
I have endeavoured to compress a rather complicated argument within a very short compass but I ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  whether he is prepared to concede that there may be some substance in the technical point I have just made. If he is prepared to concede that it may have some substance, I ask, further, whether he would be prepared to do what I suggest is the only appropriate thing to do under the circumstances and that is to withdraw this legislation and re-consider its form before reintroducing it into the Parliament. I make the further point that there is no basic constitutional limitation on the Commonwealth's ability to impose whatever rate of taxation it likes on packaging as such but there are some very real constitutional limitations on the form of presentation in which that legislation can be brought forward. It may well be, and I am putting the point quite strongly to the Minister, that this legislation will be unconstitutional in its present form, and, even worse, will throw into doubt the constitutional validity of the whole Customs Act if it can be perceived to impose a duty of taxation. Accordingly, if it is to become part of our law it ought to be through the route of the Customs Tariff Act, not the route proposed in this amendment which, as I have said, is a change to the Customs Act itself. 
Might I make a small contribution in this debate to clarify what appears to be some misunderstanding, at least on the part of  Senator Walters,  of what are the powers of the respective committees of this chamber with respect to the kind of problem to which  Senator Cavanagh  has so graphically drawn our attention tonight. What he has drawn out attention to is a provision in legislation delegating authority to a Minister without making sufficiently adequate provision for the control by this Parliament of that authority once exercised. The machinery for control which is available to this Parliament and which ought to be incorporated, as  Senator Cavanagh  has pointed out, in legislation of this kind, is a provision for the tabling and disallowance of all relevant aspects of the ministerial discretion in question. That is the solution to which  Senator Cavanagh  draws our attention. 
The Regulations and Ordinances Committee, in the exercise of its power to scrutinise regulations and, informally, instruments in writing which are perpetrated by the Executive, from time to time draws to the attention of the Senate deficiencies in the principal parent legislation. It is not the function of that Committee to perform that particular role and, indeed, that is the reason why the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee, in its report which was tabled today in this Parliament, recommended very strongly the case for the establishment of a further joint committee of this Parliament to scrutinise Bills for various deficiencies of exactly the kind that  Senator Cavanagh  has drawn our attention to tonight. I refer here to deficiencies in the sense that the Bill might unduly impinge upon civil liberties and to, what is more relevant to present purposes, deficiencies in the undue excessive and uncontrolled delegation of authority to the Executive. 
The most that any committee could do if a matter like this were referred to it and the most that a joint committee could do, if one of the kind that the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee has recommended were already established, would simply be to report back to this chamber the deficiencies in the legislation in question. That is exactly what  Senator Cavanagh  has done tonight. He has singlehandedly and unilaterally carried out that function which the rest of us so rarely perform, that is, of looking at the detailed terms of the Bill. He has singlehandedly performed the function that I hope this new committee would be set up to do, and he has brought to the attention of this chamber and to the Minister what appears to be a fairly clear deficiency in the legislation. 
There is nothing further to be achieved by referring this matter to another committee of the kind suggested by  Senator Walters,  be it the Regulations and Ordinances Committee or one of the other standing committees, or indeed the new joint committee if we can wait around long enough for that committee to be set up, because the job has been done for us by  Senator Cavanagh.  It is up to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and to this chamber to react accordingly to the suggestion that  Senator Cavanagh  has made. In the spirit in which  Senator Cavanagh  has spoken on this issue, and if what he said is right, it would appear to me and to the Opposition to be a case of gross neglect of the Government's duty in this respect. This would apply equally to Government members if they were simply to follow the Minister in this respect and allow this legislation to go through in its present form without it being amended in the way in which  Senator Cavanagh  has pointed out it should be amended. 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, relates to the sensitive question of the Australian nominations for the recent elections to the International Court of Justice. The Attorney-General will recall that he recently told me, in answer to question on notice No. 972, that, contrary to the procedures recommended by the statute of the International Court, the Australian national group failed to consult either the High Court or the nation's law faculties before making its nomination of candidates for election to the International Court. What are the reasons for this failure to consult in accordance with the international statute? In particular, will the Attorney-General confirm that it was linked with the Prime Minister's veto earlier this year, against the advice of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, of the possible candidature for this court of the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gough  Whitlam, this veto producing a situation where there was no potential Australian nominee with sufficient international stature to have a chance of election? 
-The Opposition's primary concern in this cognate debate is the Trade Practices Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 which has the effect of increasing very substantially the scope of section 45D of the Trade Practices Act. It is to that Bill that I devote my remarks. The amending legislation before us represents the final abandonment by the Government of the pretence that section 45D has anything at all to do with anti-competitive activity, or indeed to do with anything else that is properly within the scope of the Trade Practices Act Neither section 45D nor this amending legislation increasing its scope has anything at all to do with commercial law, with consumer protection or with the maintenance of fair and open competition in the market place. What section 45D is about is not the law of trade practices but the law of industrial relations. 
What an ill-conceived, what a misguided, what a provocative and what a destructive piece of legislation this is. What it is about is the protection of the interests of business, not from the depredations of monopolies or from other people unfairly manipulating market power, but rather from the legitimate activities of trade unions and their members; protection from trade unions and their officials doing the kind of things for the protection of their members that they have done since time immemorial and that they will go on doing so long as they are to discharge the trust and the confidence that their members vest in them. 
Like so much of the industrial legislation for which this Government has been responsiblethe establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau; the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act significantly increasing the scope of the punitive or penal powers under that legislation; and the Commonwealth Employees Act vesting powers of suspension, stand down or dismissal of public employees engaged in just about any conceivable form of industrial action; specific provisions of legislation like the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill, aimed quite specifically and directly at particular forms of legitimate trade union protest- this Bill is just another crude and vulgar piece of legislative union-bashing. Section 4SD is such in its original form, and it will become even more so by the passage of this amending legislation. 
Section 4SD, in its short and unhappy history so far, has done absolutely nothing to improve or rationalise industrial relations in this country. It has done nothing to encourage the effective resolution of disputes through the only machinery that has proved itself capable over the years of so doing- the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. On the contrary, section 45D has done an enormous amount to sour and embitter industrial relations, to create a climate in which simple and routine industrial disputes can and do rapidly escalate into full blown industrial crises. As a result, the work of the industrial tribunal is made infinitely more difficult. 
Let me remind the Senate of just what kinds of penalties and sanctions are associated with the operation of section 45D. They are penalties and sanctions on a scale which is unparalleled in any previous industrial legislation. Under section 76 of the parent Act, trade unions or their officials are liable for statutory penalties of up to $250,000. They are also liable under section 82 for open-ended civil actions for damages. Furthermore, under section 8 1 they are liable for injunction proceedings, with all the consequential liability associated therewith for contempt if injunctions are breached by maintenance of bans after court orders have been made. 
In respect of what kinds of industrial action can these penalties and sanctions be applied? Under section 45d, any kind of industrial action which is aimed at hindering the movement of goods or services to or from a corporation- the corporation in question not being the immediate employer of those applying the bans- subjects unions and their officials to these sorts of penalties. It is true that the provision is subject to exemptions, the effect of which I will mention in a moment. But simply to state the basic prohibition in those terms is not to appreciate the enormous potential width of it. It has a particular, and immediate and an obvious application in the service industries to unions which are engaged in the packing, the storage, the transport and the distribution of goods from corporation to corporation. That point, of course, has not been lost on employers in that area and in recent days writs have been flying around like confetti against unions like the Transport Workers Union and the Storemen and Packers Union. 
Apparently section 45d is not wide enough and far reaching enough to satisfy the insatiable appetite for industrial provocation of this Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Government. We now have before us amending legislation extending the range of that basic prohibition into all forms of industrial activity aimed at hindering not just corporations but anyone at all in the market place, again other than the immediate employers of those imposing the bans. It is aimed at anyone engaged in trade, as the Bill says, between Australia and places outside Australia, in trade among the States or in trade within a territory, between a State and a terri.tiory or between two territories. A whole new set of constitutional powers is being wheeled in to sustain the legislation, not just the previous power in section 51 (20) of the Constitution relating to corporations. Now section 51(1), the trade and commerce power, and section 122, the Territories power, of the Constitution are being employed. What we have in this amending legislation is a massive escalation in the scope of the operation of the Act so that it will bite on all forms of industrial action as they affect interstate, overseas or territorial trade. I hardly need spell out in burdensome detail just what proportion of Australian industrial and commercial activity is subsumed under those particular categories. 
We were told that the object of the amending legislation- we were not told this very candidly in the second reading speech but it emerged during debates, particularly in the other place- is specifically to empower the Government and the courts to deal with the particular issue of live sheep exports which, for technical reasons, were not specifically caught up by section 45D. But on the very face of the provision now before us it is clear that the amended section is to have an infinitely wider application than that. A whole set of new ingredients is being added to the already potent recipe for industrial conflict that section 45d represents. It is said that legitimate or proper trade union activity is exempt from the operation of section 4Sd, that it is excluded both from the scope of the provision as it now stands and the scope of the provision as it will be if this amending Bill is passed. 
-It is true that industrial action is exempt by virtue of section 4SD (3) if its dominant purpose- how difficult it is to establish the dominant purpose of any particular piece of industrial action- has to do with the remuneration, the conditions of employment, the hours of work or the working conditions of particular employees engaging in a strike or a ban or other limitation action in question. It is also said, and it follows from the terms of the legislation, that if it is a dispute about job terminations in the particular work place in question, then that also is covered. But even the most cursory scrutiny of the terms of those exemptions makes it very obvious that they cover only one small corner of what has been traditionally regarded as legitimate industrial action. 
Let me indicate just some of the familiar areas of industrial controversy which are not covered by the terms of those exemptions. I can identify without too much difficulty seven substantial and familiar areas of industrial controversy which are not so covered. In the first place, any form of action which is designed to assist the remuneration or the conditions of employment of fellow members of one's union working under different employers is not covered by those exemptions. 
Even if it is familiar industrial action in the sense of that term that  Senator Durack  or  Senator MacGibbon  would accept, it is not covered by the terms of that exemption if it involves a situation where employers other than the immediate employers of the unionists in question are concerned. In the second place any form of industrial sympathy action, whether or not it extends across different union boundaries but certainly if it extends across the boundaries of different employers or different work situations, is again outside the scope of this legislation. Thirdly, any action taken by unionists to protect the strength and the bargaining power of themselves and their union by an endeavour to unionise work places which are not unionised or not completely unionised at the time of such action- for example, the kind of action that is in issue in the present Alliance Messenger dispute in which the Transport Workers Union again finds itself involved and which aroused the indignation of  Mr Justice  Smithers earlier this week- again is clearly outside the scope of those limited exemptions for which the Act provides. 
Fourthly, any industrial action by employees of a particular employer which is aimed at securing an increase m their actual remuneration, their take home pay, by means of an increase in their actual earnings- for example, in the form of additional overtime rather than an increase in the rates of pay themselves, which is entirely familiar and routine industrial action- is again outside the scope of that section. Again, we have the authority of  Mr Justice  Smithers in the Red North case for that astonishingly limiting interpretation. In the fifth place, any industrial action which is taken to improve the actual take home pay of workers by political protests against Medibank levies or increases in taxes, which have a direct and immediate bearing on their actual remuneration, is clearly outside the scope of these exemptions. 
Sixthly, any action which is taken in support of what might be described as peripheral employment benefits- for example, the provision of a creche for working mothers in a factory- would be outside the scope of these exemptions. On a strict interpretation of these words it could not be construed as something going to employment conditions, nor, I think, would it be construed legally speaking as relating to the actual working conditions of employees in the sense that it involves safety considerations or other things immediately related to job performance in the work place itself. Seventhly, it has to be said, acknowledged and noted that the certainly regrettable but all too familiar feature of our industrial scene- demarcation disputes between unions as to their respective coverage in a particular work place- would also be quite outside the scope of those exemption provisions. 
I am not saying that full blown industrial action in the form of strikes, bans or limitations is necessarily always defensible in every one of the industrial action situations that I have just been outlining and listing. But what I am saying is that there is an enormous range of forms of industrial action of the kind in which trade unions and their members have always engaged and will always engage from time to time so long as this is necessary to protect the interests of the working men and women of this country. An enormous range of industrial activities of this kind had been absolutely and completely outlawed by this draconic legislation in a way that is quite unprecedented in the 74-year history of our federal industrial system. 
The whole history of industrial relations in this country, both in recent years and going back over the whole course of this century, suggests that this kind of iron glove approach to industrial problem solving which has been taken to extremes in this particular legislation just cannot and will not ever solve anything. In taking a look back over the course of industrial relations in this century, the Prime Minister should stop and take a particularly long and hard look at the fate of Stanley Melbourne Bruce in 1929 when he decided single-handedly and unilaterally to achieve an industrial millennium at the expense of relying on the conciliation and arbitration machinery. 
The argument is made, and no doubt it will be made again by someone in the course of this debate, that what this Act is really doing is simply giving a bargaining counter to the employers, giving them some muscle with which to force the unions into a posture of retreat and compromise, and that its real significance is as a counterbalance to the raw brute force of industrial bargaining power exercised by the unions themselves. It may be a bargaining power, but so is a can of petrol and a match in the hands of a madman. Just as with a can of petrol, waving this kind of legislation about in a kind of random fashion to which it is potentially applicable can result in an explosion which will engulf not just the intended victim but also indeed everyone in the vicinity. Section 4SD of the Act has become the wild card in the pack. It is being used with an ever increasing frequency by people, especially small scale employers, who have no real experience, sensitivity or sense of responsibility when it comes to the handling of large scale industrial confrontations. 
The capacity of section 45D, with all the paraphernalia of lawyers, courts, injunctions and fines that go with it, to escalate with extraordinary rapidity small manageable industrial disputes into large and unmanageable industrial disputes is being increasingly recognised by everyone in the system who is concerned with maintaining industrial harmony, within the parameters that that is ever possible, rather than sharing the Prime Minister's obsession with political points scoring and provocation at all costs. Every leading spokesman and participant in the industrial arena who has some responsibility for actually solving industrial disputes rather than creating them or making public or political capital out of them has shared either publicly or privately this particular view. It is certainly the view of Bob Hawke, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions; it has been put on the record on innumerable occasions. It also is the view of George Polites. It also is the view of  Sir John  Moore. It also is the view of every commissioner of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission who has been forced into the position of having to untangle the industrial nightmares which are created when section 4SD writs are issued. I do not think that it is telling any tales out of school if I say, as is indeed universally known, that it is the view of the Minister in charge of this particular area, Tony Street, who has, for all his other deficiencies, slightly more of a realistic feel for his industrial responsibilities than his political master would ever allow him to express publicly. 
As everyone who has any experience or even a skerrick of experience in the industrial arena knows, industrial disputes can be finally solved only in an atmosphere of what has nicely been described as 'jaw not war', in an attitude where it is consultation rather than confrontation which is the order of the day. As  Senator Button  said earlier, this was acknowledged in an extraordinarily lucid and sensible passage in what the present Prime Minister had to say in 1975 on industrial relations. Let me remind the Senate of what  Mr Malcolm  Fraser had to say in August 1975. He said: 
Our view is that satisfactory industrial relations depend ultimately on the attitudes of mind of people in industry. Attitudes of mutual respect, of willingness to listen, to understand, to reason and to discuss in an informed way are essential. 
The pity of it is that like so many other of the Prime Minister's pronouncements that have any kind of credible ring about them, this pronouncement has been more honoured in the breach than in the observance. If the Prime Minister and the senators who follow him so sheep-like really believed what he said in 1975, the Government would withdraw this latest lunatic piece of industrial provocation and consign this Bill to the dustbin where it belongs. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) Where and when has the Asian and Pacific Chief Jusdees' Conference met. 
Which Chief Justices have attended each conference. 
Have the papers presented to each conference and the communiques issued by it been published. If so, where. 
What costs have been incurred by the Australian Government with respect to each conference. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1978: 
Was  Mr Peter  Barbour, the former Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation removed from the position following KGB infiltration of the organisation, as alleged by Richard Hall in  The Secret StateAustralian Spy Industry! 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
What is the nature of Australia's interest in the composition of the International Court of Justice, referred to in the Minister's answer to Question 973  (Hansard,  22 November 1978, page 2425). 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Will the Treasurer provide a table showing, for each financial year from 1973-74 to 1977-78 and from 1 July to 23 November 1978, the average annual employment in the Australian Taxation Office of officers whose main function is to investigate taxation returns. 
Will he, in each case, show, as nearly as can be estimated, the number of officers investigating: (a) returns by pay-as-you-earn taxpayers; (b) returns by companies; (c) returns by business and professional persons, including primary producers; (d) returns involving investment and property income; and (e) returns of trust estates and partnerships. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) What criteria are proposed for the determination of the languages to be regarded as 'main community languages' following the Government's acceptance of the recommendations on pages60-65 of the Galbally Report that various facilities be publicised in the 'main community languages'. 
When will the Government release information on language use taken from the 1 976 Census statistics. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and concerns another apparently neglected contribution to Australian jurisprudence by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Staples. Is it true that  Mr Justice  Staples, following his extended tour overseas, has recently produced a report recommending quite substantial changes in human rights law, which report the Commonwealth has refused to make public or, indeed, to produce on request to meetings of the FederalState Standing Committee of AttorneysGeneral? If so, when, if at all, will that report be so produced, at least to the State AttorneysGeneral? Perhaps more importantly, when can we expect it to be tabled in this Parliament? 
-Whilst the demise of the system of the preparation periodically of consolidations of Commonwealth legislation might be a matter of mild regret to  Senator Missen,  it certainly is not a matter of regret to me, nor, I would suggest, to any other legislator or member of the legal profession who has been involved or is involved on a daily basis with seeking access to legislation. I regard the kind of system which is now being introduced, as a result of the Government's decision, by way of the statement made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  as a highly desirable system and an infinitely more attractive and accessible one than we have had in the past. The Government is to be congratulated for at last taking this long overdue initiative. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Peter  Baume) adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 12.53 to 2.15 p.m. 
-This Bill is a lengthy and highly technical Bill to which, as  Senator Button  has said, the Opposition has no basic objections in principle. The objective of the Bill is to make the necessary detailed jurisdictional changes in order to complete the achievement of what the Government describes as a coordinated structure of Federal and State courts in Australia- a system in which the High Court is freed of a good deal of its previous original and appellate jurisdiction in order to be able to concentrate its scarce resources and efforts on appellate matters of major significance; a system in which the new Federal Court is vested with both appellate and original jurisdiction in a variety of matters, including the whole jurisdiction of the previous Bankruptcy and industrial courts and appellate jurisdiction from the Territory Supreme Courts; and thirdly, a system in which the State and Territory Supreme Courts become the primary trial courts in their respective areas with the State courts exercising in addition a more significant role than hitherto in the application of federal law- for example, in tax and industrial property questions and also to some extent in constitutional litigation at first instance. 
In the kind of federal system we inhabit and I fear will go on suffering for some time yet there is a whole variety of constraints which do militate against the rational and particularly the adventurously rational solution of institutional and policy problems. If the Government accepts these constraints as being inevitable, perhaps even desirable, as it appears to do, there is much to be said for the kind of shuffling of jurisdictions which is involved in this Bill and the series of Bills which have preceded it in recent years. 
In particular it is pleasing to see such developments as the final removal of the long-standing anomaly whereby single High Court Justices had to spend endless sitting weeks in the trial of highly complex and often legally quite trivial patent and trade mark matters. It is pleasing to see the creation of a streamlined and uniform pattern of jurisdiction in taxation prosecutions and appeals. Equally, it is pleasing to see the general avoidance- not the completely satisfactory avoidance, but certainly the general avoidance- of a dual or overlapping jurisdiction between State and Federal courts. That is a problem which has dogged the United States judicial system for so many years. It is pleasing also to see the general clearing away of some of the byzantine jurisdictional complexities of the Judiciary Act and its associated legislation, which has given generations of students, teachers and practitioners nightmares trying to understand and apply. 
It must be said the appearance of order and rationality which is accomplished by this Bill and its predecessor legislation is not wholly successfully maintained by some aspects of the legislation now before us. In particular, the jurisdiction of the Federal Court seems destined to remain an extraordinarily mixed bag of matters with no particularly obvious rhyme or reason evident, at least on the surface, in many of the matters that have been chosen for its attention. I notice that the Attorney-General said in his second reading speech:   . . the Federal Court of Australia will have jurisdiction only in those matters where, for historical or special policy reasons, it is desirable that jurisdiction be exercised by a federal court. 
I suppose that one can see this kind of rationale clearly enough in the case of the industrial and bankruptcy jurisdictions of the Federal Court which have been taken over directly from the previous specialist industrial and bankruptcy courts. One can also see in legislation such as the Trade Practices Act that it has been thought desirable in this respect- one can readily perceive this rationale- that at least in the early stages of building a new body of law in this area there should be a general uniformity of approach of the kind that can best be guaranteed by having a small group of judges trying the cases rather than their being open to the courts of the nation at large. 
I wonder what on earth are the compelling historical or rational policy reasons which required the Federal Court to be given some of the matters which are being conferred on it by the Bill before us today. I instance here the jurisdiction which it is to have under the Banking Act, the Royal Commissions Act, Treasury Bills Act, the Insurance Deposits Act and also in relation to certain Crimes Act and court martial appeals matters. If the Attorney-General is moved to comment on this in his reply I would be interested to learn from him what particular reasons- historical reasons, policy reasons or whatever- motivated the choice of this particular bag of licorice all-sorts. 
A larger question which is raised by this Bill and to which I think it is appropriate to direct the Senate's attention for a few moments is whether the kind of co-ordinated jurisdiction model that the Government is endeavouring to implement with this legislation is really the best ultimate or long term solution to the problem of the administration of justice in Australia. The AttorneyGeneral himself conceded in his second reading speech, as in fact he has done on several previous public occasions, that a uniform court system would be ideal. By a 'uniform court system I take it he meant the commonly accepted connotation of that notion as one single Australia-wide hierarchy of courts in which State and Federal jurisdictions are completely integrated into a single system under a single set of national administrative arrangements and a single set of procedural rules and where most importantly, the question of choice of courts to litigate a particular kind of fact situation never has to arise. There is a very long history in Australia of quite respectable and indeed bipartisan advocacy for this idea of a single national uniform court system. This began I suppose in 1935 when  Sir Owen  Dixon said, among other things, in a major paper: 
It would appear natural to endeavour to establish the courts of justice as independent organs which were neither Commonwealth nor State. The basis of the system is the supremacy of the law. The courts administering the law should all derive an independent existence and authority from the Constitution. Some practical difficulties would occur in carrying such principle beyond the superior courts, but it is not easy to see why the entire system of superior courts should not have been organised and directed under the Constitution to administer the total content of the law. 
The debate has continued more recently with a major contribution along these lines by  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell in 1970 and more recently again in a paper delivered by  Mr Bob  Ellicott to the 19th Australian Legal Convention in 1977. This paper, which has been subsequently reprinted in the August 1978 issue of  Australian Law Journal,  has sparked off a quite major debate on this question in the legal literature. In the course of what is a quite admirable analysis of the issues associated with the concept of a uniform court system,  Mr Ellicott  in opening his remarks said: 
There has, in recent years, been growing support for the establishment under our Constitution of one set of courts for Australia. It is a proposition which I thoroughly support. There is no basic inconsistency between that idea and the federal nature of our Constitution. The substantive law may differ from State to State but there is no good reason why every Australian should not be able to have his rights and duties whether derived from Federal or State law determined in the one court as part of a system which all Australians share. 
At the Constitutional Convention which took place in Perth last year this question was again the subject of a major debate which culminated in a resolution expressing, quite surprisingly to many delegates and observers in prospect, quite overwhelming support for the concept of the creation by agreement of a single Australian court system. The vote was 54 to 30 with the majority component of that vote cutting right across party lines and, indeed, including delegates from all States as well as from the Commonwealth. This enthusiasm for a uniform court system has been around for a long lime in quite respectable and often conservative circles and appears to have been gaining more and more momentum in recent times. The rationale for it is really obvious enough. The fact is that even with the kind of developments which are embodied in the legislation before us today, there are still a great many problems associated with the present system of so-called co-ordinated jurisdiction; problems which are certainly not resolved by the present legislation. 
Let me instance just a couple of them. It is still possible in various areas of the law for exactly the same fact situation to be capable of litigation in either State or Federal courts with the outcome being quite likely to differ according to which court is chosen and it being by no means clear how on earth the situation will be resolved, if it comes to pass, of conflicting decisions from respective courts in litigation undertaken simultaneously in both. Perhaps the most obvious and familiar example of the area of law where this kind of situation is arising daily is the area of consumer protection litigation; for example, claims for damages arising out of the purchase of a defective motor vehicle. That kind of litigation can be initiated either under the consumer protection provisions of the Trade Practices Act in the Federal Court or under common law rules as expanded by the State sale of goods statutes in the State Supreme Courts. Another major and very familiar problem area is of course that of family law, where, as is quite well known, the High Court has held in the case of Russell and Russell that there are constitutional inhibitions on the Federal Family Court being able to deal with the full range of matters that can arise in matrimonial and particularly child custody cases. 
There is a whole number of different ways in which this problem can present itself. Let me quote just one example of its operation which came to prominent public attention in the New 
South Wales case of Clarke and Mcinnes in 1978. In a quite refreshing burst of judicial candour the trial judge in that case,  Mr Justice  Helsham, who is Chief Judge in Equity in the New South Wales Supreme Court, was moved to make a public statement at the conclusion of that case in the following terms: 
When the law is stupid, those who suffer because of it are entitled to have this stupidity publicly exposed. Three small children were, by consent of their father, in the legal custody of their mother following a divorce. They lost their mother and legal custodian when she was killed in a motor car accident. Two people or groups of people were thereafter concerned with the welfare of those small children: their maternal grandparents and their father. Their grandparents made application for custody to the Court exercising jurisdiction under the  Family Law Act  1975. Their father made application for custody by way of a writ of habeas corpus to this Court. 
He was referring to the New South Wales Supreme Court. He continued: 
Unfortunately, the grandparents chose the wrong court. The Court operating under the  Family Law Act  1975 has no power to deal with their application. They should have come to this Court which could deal with it. Unfortunately, the father chose the wrong court. He came here. This Court has no power to deal with his application. He should have gone to the Family Court of Australia which could deal with it. Neither Court therefore can deal with the applications before it. 
But, had each party started in the right court, two different courts would have had power to deal with custody of the same children between the same parties. 
Then, in what must be the judicial understatement of the century, his Honour concluded: 
This is just silly. 
Well, it is true that most of the kinds of problems to which I have referred, both in the context of family law and in the earlier context of dual jurisdiction in trade practices and so on, could be coped with by less extreme measures, as  Senator Missen  indicates, than the integration of all Australian courts into a single centrally administered system. Certainly the family law type situation could, as the honourable senator indicates, be solved by the State governments being much more willing than they hitherto have been to refer to the Commonwealth under the constitutional provision in section 51(xxxvii), the exercise of legislative power in respect of certain presently exclusive State matters. An example of a matter which could thus be referred would be the power to legislate and to confer jurisdiction in respect of custody applications by persons who are not parties to a marriage, which is the kind of situation that was in issue in the case to which I referred. 
It is equally true, on the other side of the coin, that other sorts of problems which have arisen could be resolved to some extent by the Federal Government in its turn going even further than it has gone already to vest Federal jurisdiction in State courts- for example, in the trade practices context by not keeping this jurisdiction exclusively unto itself in the Federal Court and by vesting the State supreme courts with jurisdiction in consumer protection matters. That solution has been followed in the family law context in Western Australia where the Federal Government has vested its jurisdiction in matrimonial matters in a State established family law court. There is in Western Australia a situation in which all family law and matrimonial matters can be dealt with by a single court and the New South Wales case to which I referred would not have turned out the way it did. 
However, even though some of the more extreme problems of the present system could be resolved with appropriate goodwill on all sidesgoodwill which has been fairly conspicuously lacking in some of these areas, it has to be acknowledged- my own inclination leads me still to believe, with  Mr Ellicott-  I refer again to that excellent article of his published in August 1977 in the  Australian Law Journal-  that measures such as this are essentially stop-gap and patchwork in their nature, and rationality and common sense in this whole area will ultimately be served only by going the whole way towards a single integrated court system. Indeed, the only serious objection which has been made to this uniform court proposal as an ultimate objective worth pursuing, apart from the predictable irrational and emotional States rights squawkings from the present Queensland and Western Australian governments, is that this goal, in practice, is perceived to be quite unattainable and should therefore, however attractive it might be in theory, be completely abandoned in favour of the hard headed realism which is, apparently we are to believe, embodied in the present legislation now before us. This was the kind of point made by the Attorney,  Senator Durack,  in his second reading speech. This point also has been taken, although I suspect rather less sincerely, by the New South Wales Chief Justice,  Sir Laurence  Street, who has been the most conspicuous public opponent of the recent developments in the Federal courts system. 
But might I suggest that this kind of resigned acquiescence in the so-called inevitability of State hostility to the development of a unified court system and the loss of identity of the present State courts that this will entail is unfortunate. It is an unfortunate attitude in that it may become a self-fulfilling prophecy. As we all know, institutional change of any kind in the Australian federal system is very, very difficult to achieve, but such changes can be achieved in the long run if those who at least are impressed with the rational necessity of making them do keep the courage of their convictions and keep on working away to achieve them. There is already, as I have indicated, a quite impressive battery of champions in favour of the concept of a unified court system and, as I have also indicated, a surprisingly impressive body of bipartisan political support for the concept from all over Australia, as indicated by the vote of the 1978 Perth convention. So while the Government is to be congratulated for going as far as it has in this Bill and the earlier legislation to improve the coordination of the present system, I would hate it to abandon altogether the ultimate goal of a unified system of administration of justice in Australia. I can assure the Government that in any moves it might make in this direction it will have the full support of the Opposition. 
I refer to the amendment to which the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  devoted the bulk of his remarks, namely, the amendment to the Schedule accompanying Division 3 of Part III of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976. While appreciating the force of the practical considerations which have motivated the Government to introduce this amendment, I ask: Has the Government seriously considered just how far-reaching the implications of this change may prove to be? The Attorney-General will surely be aware of just how often interlocutory or chamber applications or proceedings, particularly in the context of an application for an interlocutory injunction, can amount, for all practical purposes, to the trial of the action itself. If that is so, what then happens to the principle which is supposed to be behind the allocation of hitherto exclusive jurisdiction in these matters to the Federal Court, namely, the principle of ensuring a uniformity of interpretation, particularly in sensitive, delicate and new areas of the law? 
Let me take just one example of the potentially explosive implications of this change. I refer to the most controversial section of the Trade Practices Act, namely, section  45D,  which I believe- I am subject to correction on thiscomes within the jurisdiction of the Federal Court in its General Division, not its Industrial Division, and which therefore is squarely within the ambit of this provision. It has been hard enough for the Labor movement, which has been very much on the receiving end of section  45D,  to get even remotely tolerable interpretations and applications of section  45D  from the existing squad of Federal judges who have had a hand in its interpretation. God knows how much harder the task of the unions, accordingly, will be in defending themselves against the rigours of this extraordinary piece of legislation if they find themselves subject to possible proceedings before every judicial Tom, Dick and Harry right around Australia. With the greatest of respect, as usual, to the members of the judiciary who may be called upon to resolve these matters, I suggest that in the context of section 45D one has a classic example of a politico-legal provision which requires interpretation and application by judges who have at least some sense of the context in which the legislation is being applied. 
As I have said, it is hard enough, as it is, to get that kind of appreciation from the existing Federal Court. How much harder will it be if judges all around Australia can have a hand in the application of this legislation? This is not an artificial, remote or fantastical problem because, to my knowledge, most of the really explosive section 45  D  court confrontations have arisen in the context of interlocutory applications rather than at the trial of the action itself. I raise those questions with the greatest of seriousness on behalf of the Opposition to draw to the Government's attention the fact that the characters of these changes quite possibly have been rather more substantive and less procedural in their connotations than the Government has conceded in the remarks of the Attorney-General who introduced this amendment. 
Whilst one must no doubt learn to be thankful for small mercies when one is in opposition, it is a matter for regret that it is only now- four months after the ministerial statement was made- that a formal opportunity has been given to debate the issues raised by it. Because of the delay it has been necessary for honourable senators on both sides of the chamber to find other ways and means of getting their respective positions on the record. I for one found the opportunity, as did  Senator Missen  on the Government side, in the context of the Budget debate on 8 November and for that reason my remarks today perhaps will be a little briefer than might otherwise have been the case. In so doing, however, I would not wish it to be thought that either I or the Opposition views with other than the utmost gravity the critical position in which legal aid funding has been increasingly finding itself over the last few years or that we view with anything other than the utmost concern the measures which have been taken by the Government in this ministerial statement to relieve the situation. 
The package announced by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  contains five basic measures. Some of them, as  Senator Peter  Baume acknowledged in his rather half-hearted defence of the Government's position, are aimed at reducing costs and increasing the resources available for legal aid expenditure and otherssupposedly at least- are aimed at increasing the number of people eligible to receive aid. Let me go through each of those five measures in turn. The first one is the abolition of aid for dissolution cases except in circumstances of so-called special hardship. The rationale for this measure is that undefended dissolution cases involving no ancillary property or custody matters are simple to mount and the money could be spent elsewhere. Whilst there is certainly some force to that assertion, the difficulty,  Mr Deputy President  and  Senator Baume,  is that what might appear simple to Ministers, lawyers or other professional men in this Parliament does not necessarily appear so for ordinary people. 
There is still a regrettable mystique about the law in all its aspects. This is so even with the 
Family Court, which I acknowledge has been the subject of many endeavours on both the Government and Opposition sides of the Parliament to make a more informal tribunal. It is still a frightening experience for the ordinary layman to contemplate an appearance before or involvement with any court in the land. As procedures now stand it is still necessary for such an appearance to be made in all family law matters. A mass of quite complex forms still has to be filled in. This whole paraphernalia of procedures is intimidating to the ordinary person who, as a result, will continue to need and to seek advice and aid in this respect. It may be that the situation to which I have been referring could be coped with by the further simplification of Family Court procedures of the kind that have been recommended by the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission in its first report. Certainly I hope that the Joint Committee on the Family Law Act, which is considering the operation of that Act, will given urgent attention to these matters. 
It might be possible also to solve many of the problems to which I have referred by providing proper facilities for detailed personal advice to be given at all stages to people embarking on dissolution procedures. Certainly it is true that the staff of family courts around the country are doing their best to provide that advice. But the staffing situation in this area, as is the case everywhere else in the public sector, is such that on the ground they are just too hard pressed to cope in the kind of detailed way that is necessary if that advice is to be realistically helpful to people who are seeking it. A similar consideration applies to an even greater extent to the officers of the Australian Legal Aid Office, who have been very hard pressed to give advice and assistance in this area, notwithstanding their technical unavailability to provide legal aid under these new guidelines; that is, to provide legal aid in a monetary sense. They are just unable to cope with the demands for advice which are now being placed upon them. That staffing situation is a matter to which I will refer again in a few moments. 
The second element in the ministerial package is the requirement that a $100 court fee is to be paid by people who institute dissolution proceedings on their own behalf, with the qualification that a registrar of the Family Court can waive that fee on the basis of considerations of substantial hardship. This needs only to be stated for one to appreciate the disincentive that this represents to the ordinary working man or woman who may urgently need a dissolution. This is even more so for the unemployed, the pensioners and others who are so financially hard pressed in current economic circumstances. If it is impossible for the person in question to find that $100, which will prove to be the case for many people in the community, the only alternative is for the applicant to throw himself or herself on the mercy of the registrar. Although there is certainly no evidence that the registrars' discretion in this respect is being exercised with anything other than the utmost benevolence around the country this, as with other qualifications in the ministerial package of measures, reintroduces the whole concept of the smell of the charity ward which I previously understood that in recent years we had all been trying so hard to get beyond in this area of basic unsatisfied needs. 
Similar considerations apply to the third of the five elements in the package, that is, the requirement that in cases where legal aid is granted a minimum contribution of $20 is to be made by the applicant for legal aid. Again, this is subject to waiver, this time by the Australian Legal Aid Office in cases of so-called demonstrated hardship. An amount of $20 may not mean much to the Minister,  Senator Baume  or me, but it is a very significant sum indeed to the kind of people about whom we are talking. We should remember who they are because under these guidelines the only people who are eligible for legal aid in the first place are, in the case of individuals, people whose net disposable incomes are a mere $52 a week or in the case of the ordinary average family of four with a breadwinner and three dependants, where the total net disposable income of the family is $87. One has to appreciate that these are the kinds of people we are talking about when we talk of a requirement to pay a $20 fee to swell the revenue from which aid can be made available to a larger section of the community. It is a most unhappy impost for those reasons. 
The fourth element in the package is the new cost scale for solicitors in Family Court proceedings, which cost scale represents certainly a drastic downward revision of the fees payable to the private legal profession on matters referred to that profession by the Legal Aid Office. The provisions are quite complex and I will not attempt to review them in any detail, but it has been estimated that their general effect probably will be to reduce the fees payable to the profession from the previous level of 90 per cent to something like 80 per cent of the normal fees payable and in fact probably rather less than that in many individual cases. As far as I for one am concerned, as a professional lawyer I do not regard this as a change necessarily to be resisted. 
Certainly there was room for stripping away some areas of unjustified fat in this respect, despite the predictable yelps we have now heard from the legal profession suggesting that no such fat existed. 
Nonetheless, I think it has to be acknowledged- I hope the Government will take this point seriously- that the reduction in the fees payable to the private profession has produced a series of quite serious practical difficulties in the administration of legal aid in most of the States. These have come about as a result of a number of firms of solicitors now refusing to take on legal aid matters in family law cases. The firms that have been most conspicuous in this respect include some of the most specialised and expert firms in the family law area and firms which previously have handled quite a large bulk of the work load in this area. Perhaps the best known firm in Victoria to have made this decision- its name deserves to be put on the public record- is Russell Kennedy and Cook. But there are quite a number of other firms which are distinguishable from that one only by virtue of the less flamboyant way in which they have been evading their professional responsibilities. 
Whatever one thinks of the attitudes of the firms in question- I offer no justification whatever for that kind of professional behaviour- the effect has been to place enormous additional pressures on the staffs of the Australian Legal Aid Office, both in the sense that they have had to do a great deal of extra work in trying to find firms willing to take on legal aid cases which, surprising as it may sound, I am informed has often proved difficult and lengthy, and in the even more obvious and significant sense as far as the staffs are concerned, has caused them to accept substantial additional burdens by way of the direct representation of legal aid clients in family law cases. They are burdens and pressures which the staffs just are not numerically equipped to handle within the staff guidelines and the resources that have been made available by the present Government to the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
The final element in the package, and one which  Senator Baume  made much of, was the upward revision of the means test. I have mentioned what the base figures now are. There has been an increase from $40 to $52 in the case of individual income earners, which sum it will be noticed is still under the base level which is now payable for age, widow and invalid pensions. That is how small the net disposable income figure is. In addition, there has been the unamended provision for an extra $15 to be allowed for a first dependant and $10 for a second and each subsequent dependant. The point cannot be too strongly made that these limits, however much  Senator Baume  and other defenders of the Government might seek to justify them, are still hopelessly inadequate to meet real legal aid needs. Accepting  Senator Baume  's adoption of a strict needs criterion as that which should govern one's assessment of legal aid programs, the reality of the situation is that there are still many people who are in desperate need. Many pensioners, many people below the Henderson poverty line, will still be excluded and will still miss out on the provision of legal aid by virtue of the low level at which these guidelines are set. 
I will come to solutions in a moment, but before doing that just let me oblige the honourable senator to acknowledge, if he possibly can, how inadequate the provision has been, even by the Government's own lights. The increase does no more than restore the income test to the position at which it stood in 1975; it does nothing whatsoever to compensate for the 30 per cent increase in the general cost of living which has occurred since that time. So, even by the most generous standards which one might be tempted to adopt by the special pleading of  Senator Baume,  it must be said that the provision of funding in this area and the needs test levels which have been fixed by the Government are not merely marginally inadequate but grossly and spectacularly inadequate to meet real and apparent needs. 
In the context of solutions, despite what  Senator Baume  has said the Opposition's view is, and will remain, that the basic solution to the problem of legal aid, however else one might tackle present crises- I will come to that matter in a moment- must continue to be an acknowledgment by government of its responsibility to inject substantial additional funds into the legal aid system. Where those funds are to come from and the allocation of the cake obviously are matters for continuing argument. But the beginning of wisdom is at least to appreciate that this is one area of the social welfare system- I accept what  Senator Baume  has said about the characterisation of legal aid as properly being regarded as one element in a total welfare system- in relation to which the real level of the funding that is supplied cannot be allowed to drift back in the way in which this Government has allowed it to do. The allocation of $ 19.6m made in this year's 
Budget is, as has been acknowledged by  Senator Baume,  in fact down $300,000 on that of the previous year. It is a sum which is hopelessly inadequate to meet that to which the present Government committed itself in its 1975 election program, namely, ensuring that no person be denied legal aid because of lack of means. 
Let me go beyond that consideration and try to offer what  Senator Baume  might regard as a more constructive solution and approach to the problem and one which picks up his own preoccupation with the question of the allocation of presumed scarce resources. Presuming, for the sake of this argument, that the resources are scarce, there is one way in which the Government, even if it persists with its present stinginess so far as the actual allocation of dollars is concerned, can do a great deal to alleviate the present situation. That solution is for the Government to abandon some of its ideological prejudice in this area and to opt not to continue supporting the private legal profession on the present scale but rather to deliver a much greater proportion of legal aid through a salaried service, through salaried officers on the ground. 
All the research that has been done in this area- I am referring to the work of Professor Sackville, of the Australian Legal Aid Office and of the Australian Law Reform Commission in the context of its criminal investigation report, although I readily acknowledge that more needs to be done- indicates that in cost efficiency terms legal aid delivered by salaried officers is at least 50 per cent cheaper than that delivered by private legal practitioners; that is, twice as much aid per dollar can be delivered through salaried officers as can be achieved by the present system of dispensation of aid through the medium of the private legal profession. It is fascinating to note that even in Western Australia, that bastion of conservatism in all things, as no doubt  Senator Chaney  will readily acknowledge, there are some glimmers of progressive behaviour to the extent that the Legal Services Commission in that State has, I understand, been asking for budgetary assistance from the Federal Government in the context of a reallocation of its resources substantially away from the private profession into increased salaried staff. 
There is an enormous reservoir of social responsibility in the profession, not least from those many members of the profession, both presently employed and unemployed, who would be only too delighted to work in the public sector were the positions made available to enable them to join the public sector. I know as a fact that one recently advertised position for a legal officer in the Victorian branch of the Australian Legal Aid Office attracted 43 applicants. The level of remuneration was not especially consonant with that prevailing in the private profession for the level of experience required. Within the private profession there is a huge reservoir of people who would prefer to devote their intellectual energies and their physical resources to the provision of legal aid to the community at large. In the same way, of course, it must be acknowledged that there are many members of the private profession who, while staying within that particular framework, have in the past and are at the moment perfectly prepared to accept legal aid briefs for much less remuneration than they might otherwise be able to charge if they were doing that work privately. 
The point upon which I want to insist is that the present Government's lunatic preoccupation with the size of the public sector, combined with an unquestioning ideological commitment by it to the private profession, has meant that staff ceilings have been applied in the Australian Legal Aid Office which make any such rational reallocation of resources impossible at the moment. Not only have ceilings in the ALAO area not been increased over the last few years, but in fact they have been reduced. In 1 975 the original ceiling in the Australian Legal Aid Office was 442 for the country as a whole. In September 1975 the approved ceiling was increased by another 1 12 to 564. But, following the change of government, which some of us regrettably cannot help but remember took place in the latter part of 1975, that base figure of 442, the increase in which had not had time to be implemented at the time of the election, was reduced to 364, and it has sat there ever since. I am not talking just about a reduction in ceilings associated with the shift of officers which has recently taken place from the ALAO to the newly established State commissions; I am talking about the basic situation which has obtained now for the whole of the lifetime of this Government in regard to ceilings in the ALAO. 
The ALAO is full of dedicated officers who have been working their hearts out to satisfy the huge need for legal aid services which exists in this community; but it has been impossible for significant gains to be made, and it will continue to be impossible for significant gains to be made so long as those now in charge of the Government continue to adopt the attitude they have, in relation to both the basic level of funding which is made available and the way in which that funding is allocated between different possible efficient uses. All I hope is that in the next ministerial statement that comes down in this Parliament on this subject the Government will show a much more enlightened appreciation of what is both inevitable and desirable if the situation is to be significantly improved. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. With respect to his answer earlier today on the subject of  Mr Robinson's  resignation and re-birth, I ask: Are there any precedents in the history of this Parliament for a Minister resigning his portfolio for administrative and organisational reasons unconnected with matters of government policy? Is not a resignation for these reasons one that trifles with the principles of ministerial responsibility- indeed, one that trifles with this Parliament- and for that reason, if for no other, it deserves the censure of this House? 
-The remaining matter on which the Opposition would appreciate a response from the Minister for Science and the Environment, although our position is not expressed in the form of an amendment, relates to clause 60 and the question of exempt accounts. As it stands, the clause has, it appears, the effect of removing altogether from the Auditor-General's domain certain classes of accounts, essentially in the national security area, if I may thus summarise the effect of a quite substantial section of the Bill. It has traditionally been the case that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and other government operations of that kind have been immune from parliamentary and public scrutiny as far as their detailed working is concerned, but at least the Parliament and the public have had the considerable comfort, given the reputation and credibility of the Auditor-General's office, of the knowledge that at least these agencies and operations were being subjected to the rigorous scrutiny of the Auditor-General. Now it appears there is to be a new ministerial certification procedure, and we will all simply have to be satisfied with that. 
Could the Minister please articulate, if that fairly rudimentary account of the effect of the clause is accurate, why it has been thought desirable or necessary after all these years to take the final complete plunge into secrecy as far as this regrettably large area of public expenditure is concerned? 
I am prompted by the Minister's remarks to ask one further question: If it has been the case all these years that this kind of informal certification procedure has been operative in respect of ASIO and it is only now that the Audit Act is being amended, in fact, to give legal force to that arrangement, are we to understand that the auditing of ASIO for the last 30 years has been characterised by illegality in that the procedures required by the Audit Act, as unamended until today, have not been complied with? 
I wish to pursue that matter one step further. If in the areas that it is proposed this new procedure should cover the confidentiality of the material is such that it is too sensitive for the eyes even of our auditors, I ask the Minister: What has been the change of circumstances which has precipitated this legislative action? If the material in question is too sensitive now to be able to be contemplated as being within the reach of the Auditor-General, surely one would have thought that in the past similar material has been equally as sensitive. What has been the change of circumstances? What has been the leakage, if any, from the Auditor-General's Office which has prompted the Government to take this course of action and to create this new machinery? 
-The Opposition opposes the reference of this matter to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the basis that no useful purpose would be served by so doing. The arguments for and against citizen initiative are well known. We of the Opposition regard the case against it as sufficiently obvious and clear cut as not to justify the kind of expenditure of time and effort that a reference to a committee would involve. 
A rude and dismissive response to  Senator Mason's  proposal might be to say that this is just another example of that cheap, crude, two-bob populism which the Australian Democrats have made so peculiarly their own; their tendency to confront complex problems with slogans and simplistic solutions and to do so wallowing in the luxury of the knowledge that they will never be in the position of having to govern, and confront these problems, in their own right. But because the proposal has acquired a degree of support in the community, as evidenced by the size of the petition which  Senator Mason  has submitted to the Senate, it does, I acknowledge deserve a more thoughtful and reasoned response than one along those lines. 
Let me begin by saying that the fundamental problem with the proposal for citizen initiative is that it is a nineteenth century solution to a nineteenth century problem. Although I readily acknowledge that citizen initiative does enjoy some current popularity in certain overseas countries, particularly the United States, it is true that the idea of citizen initiative and a referendum dates from the time, and was most fashionable at the time, when nations were essentially run by elites elected by rich and powerful minorities, when full adult franchise was unknown, when representative democracy was not fully developed, and when there was genuine frustration at the absence of an opportunity for the popular voice to make itself heard in the business of government. Perhaps more importantly it dates from the time when governments had much less to do and when they were expected to do much less. The questions which confronted them were much less complex than they are today. 
Unfortunately, the issues with which governments have to deal today are no longer simple; our world is no longer as simple as it was. The important issues, particularly those involving the allocation of community resources and the raising and spending of public revenue- the kind of issue which was involved in the notorious Proposition 13 decision in California a couple of years ago- are no longer the kind of issues for which every voter will be able to find answers from within his or her personal experience. Attractive though it is maybe, for any democrat to favour the idea of the people making the decisions, the fact is that it is just no longer possible, if indeed it ever was possible, for the people to be aware of all the factors that are necessary to sensibly determine an issue. 
-What I have said should be clear enough from the lessons of our own history and from the record of the Australian people in constitutional referendums. It is well known, of course, that only eight out of the 40 referendums that have been held to change the Australian Constitution have been agreed to. I suggest this has happened not because most of those proposals have in fact been bad- indeed, a great many have achieved either bipartisan support or support from different political parties at different times when the referendums have been put- and should not have been passed; rather it is because most of them have been extraordinarily complex. They have raised large and difficult questions which have been all too capable of being cheapened and vulgarised by opponents of the particular change in issue. They have been vulgarised in terms of crude appeals to prejudice and self-interest. I am not suggesting- despite the suggestions of  Senator Chipp  in earlier interjections that this is so- that the electorate is unintelligent; rather 1 am simply suggesting that politicians and others in the community can be quite unscrupulous in appealing to prejudice and fear. It is a far easier task to suggest that people play safe and vote no than it is to persuade people to agree to change. 
There are many recent examples of this phenomenon at work. Perhaps the most recent example is the simultaneous elections referendum in 1977. But perhaps the worst single example of the way in which the Australian people have been misled by a totally unscrupulous campaign occurred 12 years ago when some members of the Senate opposed an amendment, which was supported by all the political parties, to abandon the nexus which links the size of this chamber with the size of the House of Representatives. The campaign was run essentially, and quite cynically, along the lines of hatred against all politicians- 'Don't vote yes or you will finish up politicians more of them'. The success of that appeal to ignorance and prejudice will affect the course of government and of parliament in this country for many years to come. Most of us will acknowledge now, as then, that the Senate is large enough to perform the sort of review functions which most of us believe we ought to be concentrating on, and confining ourselves to. But the fact that the Senate is generally agreed to be large enough does not mean that the House of Representatives is; that its size is appropriate in terms of the representative function of its members of the balance between the front and back benches that is necessary in that chamber. Yet, thanks to the insidious campaign mounted by a minority of the Senate in 1967, the House of Representatives can be increased in size only if the size of the Senate is also increased. 
Let me turn to another aspect of this problem: The cost of citizen initiative in the sense of the resources that need to be expended if an initiative and referendum system is to be introduced, and the implications of that cost for the quality of the democracy it is supposed to embody. I would have thought that  Senator Mason's  party and  Senator Chipp  's party would have been aware that there is a vast difference between getting the support of 10 per cent of the Australian people in an election and getting the support of over half the population, which of course would be necessary at the second stage, the referendum stage, of the citizen initiative system. I seem to remember that in the last election their party complained bitterly about its lack of financial resources and its inability to get much space in the media to put its programs. Yet it seems that  Senator Mason  just has not applied that lesson to the proposal he now puts. 
Whilst  Senator Mason  might well be able to whip up a campaign to get the support of 2 per cent of the electors to force a referendum on a hot political issue, it seems that he just has not thought about the problem of what will happen after he has succeeded in getting that referendum. That is the point where money and access to the media really begin to matter. It matters to our party and I would certainly have thought that it would matter to his Party. Presumably it will not be his party, and I can assure the Senate that it certainly will not be ours, which will control most of the resources open to persuading the public how to vote on the issues. He ought to realise that putting a pamphlet of a Yes case and a No case in everyone's letterbox is not going to lead inevitably, by itself, to a rational decision. Those who will be concerned about the issue will spend a lot of money and expend a lot of effort to persuade people to support their views. But those resources will not be shared equally among the proponents and the opponents of the change. To take a familiar and recent United States example, it is widely accepted that the defeat of a Californian initiative proposal for a ban on smoking in public places was primarily due to a massive $5m advertising campaign by the tobacco industry. 
It is frequently suggested that Australians have too many elections with which to concern themselves. They have two elections every three years if both the State and Federal parliaments run their full terms and if upper and lower Houses are elected at the same time. Of course they have rather more than that if the system operates in the perverse way in which it has been operating in recent years. We on our side of the chamber certainly find it difficult enough to marshal the necessary financial resources to put the Labor Party's point of view to the people in those elections. To add to those elections an unknown number of referendums would be to change the system and deliver it into the hands of those with financial and communications resources to spare. 
Let me put the argument finally back on the plane of democratic principle where  Senator Mason  has insisted throughout that it should remain. I recall in particular his remarks, when seeking unsuccessfully to introduce this matter last week, that one was either for or against democracy. Are those of us who oppose this system against democracy in the way in which  Senator Mason  suggests that we must be? I suggest that to argue and to talk in those terms again simply cheapens and vulgarises the argument, and the debate. What I would suggest is that the approach in this respect of  Senator Mason  and his colleagues is really a quite irresponsible one. Far be it for me to concede, after the events of 1975, that our present system of democracy is perfect, but the point that has to be made is that our system of government is one of representative democracy in which the people make a choice between the people and the parties that they want to represent them on the basis of the programs produced by those seeking election. When the representative does not make the right decision, he has to answer for that at the next election. He and his party can be judged, and are judged, on how successful they are in coping with a whole range of different issues. I suggest to  Senator Mason  that a politician is acting in a cowardly fashion, a non-responsible position, if every time a difficult issue comes up he says that he will have none of it, and that he would regard it as more appropriate that on that issue the initiative and referendum course bears the responsibility of producing a policy decision, a policy result. Politicians have to make unpopular decisions from time to time. By definition, of course, they are decisions that go against the popular will at the time they are taken. By and large we tend to distinguish these sorts of decisions as being 'statesman like' rather than political because, and just because, they tend to look beyond short term political popularity towards the greater good, in the long term, of the nation.  Senator Mason's  proposal would eliminate the possibility of responsible politicians acting contrary to popular prejudice. That, I suggest, would be the ultimate tragedy for Australian democracy if his proposal were to come to fruition. 
-As my learned and gallant leader,  Senator Wriedt,  indicated in his opening remarks the Audit Amendment Bill is not nearly as boring as it looks, or indeed as the state of the chamber would suggest. The most important part of it and the part to which I, like  Senator Watson  propose to confine my remarks, concerns the introduction of efficiency audits. This could prove to be one of the most important innovations in public administration that this country has seen for many decades. A recommendation for the introduction of efficiency audits in the public sector was made- as previous speakers have said- by the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, that is the Coombs Commission, which was established by the Whitlam Government in 1974. What the Bill proposes is not exactly what the Coombs Commission recommended and I will return to some of the major differences later. It was the Commission's report which gave the impetus to the present Government to legislate for efficiency audits and that is a decision which we certainly applaud. It is very important to appreciate that the proposed new functions for the Auditor-General, the efficiency audits, are not merely a quantitative extension to the existing work of the AuditorGeneral and his staff. An efficiency audit is something fundamentally different from the financial audit with which we are all familiar. As  Senator Watson  has indicated, in a financial audit the Auditor-General is concerned to ensure that money is spent in accordance with the requirements of the law and especially Treasury regulations, that there is proper accounting, that money appropriated for one purpose is not spent for another and matters of that kind. He is concerned that there are no criminal practices and no fraudulent appropriations whether by officers of the Government or by recipients of government benefit. The Auditor-General's reports on account of all departments and authorities are presented to the Parliament and are examined by the Joint Committee of Public Accounts.  His  annual reports tend to highlight areas where there have been breakdowns in the system. Those breakdowns are, for the most part, very rigorously and effectively scrutinised by existing parliamentary machinery. 
The existing audit procedure involves no evaluation of the efficiency of departments or authorities and the programs they administer. It involves no consideration of whether in respect of each program it has defined objectives, whether it is meeting those objectives, or whether if it is meeting them it is doing so with minimum wastage of human and other material resources. This, of course, is essentially what efficiency auditing is all about. It is a system, as has been said, which was pioneered in the United States and indeed is so well entrenched there now, that the Government Auditing Office in the United States devotes only about 10 per cent of its resources to the traditional financial audit and 90 per cent of its resources to efficiency and program auditing. 
To clarify these terms- to some extent this has been done by other speakers, although regrettably it was not done at all either here or in the other place by the Ministers who introduced the second reading speeches- I point out that efficiency auditing is the middle stage in what is generally described as the audit continuum at the lower end of which is financial auditing, as presently practised by the Auditor-General's Office and at the top end of which is what  Senator Watson  has described as a program effectiveness review which involves a full-scale analysis, not merely of whether the program in question is meeting its objective, but of the objectives themselves. Full-scale program effectiveness reviews are not within the AuditorGeneral's brief, nor are they proposed to be by virtue of the present legislation. I note we were told in November 1976 that program effectiveness reviews in future would be the function of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, although it remains, to me at least, a matter of some considerable obscurity just to what has happened to that particular commitment. I would be interested to know from the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  in his reply exactly what is happening in respect of program effectiveness reviews. Whatever machinery is adopted and applied in respect of both program reviews and efficiency reviews which are embodied in the present legislation, the Opposition is certainly fully in favour of the existence of and the move towards a situation of continuous and independent program effectiveness and efficiency reviews, so as to force a constant re-thinking and re-analysis by the Government of the programs on which so much public money is spent. 
I make a point of emphasising on behalf of the Labor Opposition the importance of this kind of rigorous scrutiny of both efficiency and effectiveness simply because our attitudes in this respect are so often caricatured. Certainly, we on this side of politics, believing as we do in the virtue of public expenditure as a vehicle for the attainment of a whole variety of social objectives, are particularly conscious of our responsibility to ensure that the public sector works as efficiently and effectively as is humanly possible, and that resources, which we readily acknowledge to be scarce, in Australia as elsewhere, are allocated in the best possible way. One of the virtues of efficiency audits, as we see them from our perspective in politics, is that they enable us to assure the community that the expenditure of public money is being carried out in a proper and considered manner. Secondly, they offer a means of demonstrating to the community, which we are all too happy to do, the areas in which, due to Government policy, inadequate services are being provided. 
The Opposition welcomes the framework for efficiency audits which is set out in clause 40 of the Bill. However, it remains a matter of concern to us whether the system will work out as well in practice as it looks on paper. It is certainly true that the scale of efficiency auditing will be much more limited than generally has been appreciated. That this is so became clear, if it was not already so, from evidence given by  Mr Steele  Craik and  Mr Jones,  who is the head of the proposed Efficiency Auditing Division in the Auditor-General's Office. On 6 November last year those two gentlemen gave the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations a very full account of the intended operation of the new efficiency auditing system. It became quite clear from what they told that Committee, of which I was a member, that at least in the immediately foreseeable future there will be only three or four efficiency audits fully completed each year, each one of which will take at least three to four months to complete and cost in the order of $100,000. We were told that it is proposed that the full scale efficiency audits be preceded by feasibility studies to determine whether the cost of full scale efficiency auditing- a sort of full scale spring cleaning- is likely to be justified by the savings that might accrue from greater efficiency. Indeed, it seems to be anticipated that in any given year there will be about twice as many feasibility studies as actual efficiency audits. 
At this rate, it is evident that it will take a very long time to get around the full range of departments and authorities with programs which one might think are ripe for review. Of course, this is partly because of the nature of the efficiency auditing exercise itself. It is a large scale enterprise if done properly. As I think  Mr Steele  Craik put it at the Committee hearing, it is not a matter of chasing paper clips and candle ends. It is clear that the kinds of criteria that will be applied to justify the attention of the AuditorGeneral are such matters as the size of the program and the fact that it is a reasonably stable program in the sense that it is not in a state of flux or subject to imminent full scale government review. It is also clear that the considerations justifying a move beyond the initial feasibility study stage to a full scale efficiency audit will be, as we were told by those gentlemen in the evidence to which I have referred, considerations such as the unclear articulation of program objectives, the absence of internal efficiency assessment mechanisms, and some evidence that the program is just not performing very well. An example given to the Committee of the kind of area in which efficiency audits might operate was the whole area of welfare housing. 
I put these matters on record simply in order to explain to anyone who is interested just what the system is about. I repeat that, regrettably, the Government has done remarkably little to articulate to this Parliament or to the community what is about to happen. I also mention the nature of the enterprise in that degree of detail in order to repeat the obvious point that, in view of the scale and cost of the investigations that are contemplated, it is clear that we cannot expect a very wide area of public administration to be covered very quickly. What worries me also in this respect, and along the same line of thought, is that the resources that are being made available to the Auditor-General's Office- this point was made very effectively by  Senator Watson-  I fear are too little to enable a more than derisory approach to this whole problem. For example, I have been led to understand that the present total staff of the Auditor-General's Office is less than the staff employed in the computer section alone of the Department of Defence. In the light of these considerations the Opposition would appreciate an assurance from the Government that it is really serious about efficiency auditing; that It will not treat this matter as just another shop window exercise, glittering out front but empty behind; that it will make available to the Auditor-General's Office staff and other resources in sufficient quantities, given the scale of the enterprise involved in carrying out efficiency audits, to enable the presence of the AuditorGeneral and his staff to be felt in this crucially important area. 
I have one further serious qualification to make, not about the administration of the Bill but about the terms of the Bill itself. It concerns the method of ensuring that the AuditorGeneral's efficiency audit reports come promptly to the attention of the Parliament and the public. I said at the outset that there were some important differences between what the Royal Commission recommended and what the Government proposes in this Bill. As I see it, those differences concern the role Parliament is to play in the process, a role which, I regret to say, it appears the Government is trying to downgrade. Paragraph 3.6.1 of the Commission's report states: 
The Commission proposes, therefore, that there should be a regular program of efficiency audits in which departmental performance will be assessed. These assessments should be so designed that they would bring before ministers, Cabinet and Parliament both the assessment itself and the data on which it is based. Such a presentation would, at least to some extent, make the assessment open to public examination and comment. It would also clearly establish the primacy of political responsibility for administrative efficiency, including not merely that of the minister and Cabinet but also that of Parliament, which many observers consider has in recent decades been significantly eroded. 
Linked with that is a recommendation at paragraph 3.6.20 of the report in the following terms: 
The Commission considers that Parliament should have a significant role as guardian of the administrative and executive efficiency of government. It contemplates, therefore, that a report by the Auditor-General on the outcome of his audits of efficiency should be presented to Parliament and examined by a special committee specially designed for this purpose. This committee should be assisted by the AuditorGeneral and his staff. To strengthen the role of Parliament in this matter the Commission suggests for the consideration of Parliament: 
that the role of the Auditor-General as an officer of Parliament should be clarified and strengthened; 
that there should be a parliamentary committee on administrative efficiency (it is not for us to determine whether this function should be added to that of the 
Public Accounts Committee, or another existing committee, or whether a new and separate committee should be established for this purpose); (c) that the parliamentary committee on administrative efficiency should have the same powers to call witnesses as does the Public Accounts. 
If we look at this Bill we just do not see that this primacy of the Parliament has endured beyond the high hopes of the Royal Commission. It is true that in proposed new section 48g  (  1 ) the Auditor-General is required to report to Parliament once a year on the efficiency audits he carried out during the year in question. But this is a general report and it is distinctly different from the detailed reports on individual departments on which he has conducted efficiency audits and on which I suggest Parliament does need to be briefed. There is in addition, I acknowledge, a provision that does deal explicitly with individual efficiency audit reports. It is in proposed new section 48F, which provides that those individual reports which the Auditor-General prepares must be sent to the Public Service Board and to the responsible Minister except where the reports are actually on the functioning of departments of the Parliament. There is no reference so far to reporting to Parliament. 
Where the reports are in the class which is described as 'restricted'- this is a matter on which I do not stop to speak at length; I simply make the point that the classification of a report as 'restricted' is a matter which is to be determined by the Auditor-General on grounds which do seem extraordinarily wide under proposed new section 48f (5)- they go to the Public Service Board, the Minister and the Prime Minister. Again, there is no specific requirement in this part of the text of the Bill that the reports in question go to the Parliament. It is true when one looks at the specific text of proposed new section 48f (8) that the Auditor-General 'may' include these reports on efficiency audits in his annual report to Parliament on the body in question or in some other financial report which he might make to Parliament on the Department or body in question or in some special report which he might make to the Parliament. But he is not required under the text of that provision or any other provision in the Bill to do any of these things. There is nothing in the Bill which ensures, as the Coombs Commission recommended and as  Senator Watson  noted in the course of his remarks, that the role of the Auditor-General as an officer of Parliament should be clarified and strengthened '. There is nothing, insofar as going to that extent is concerned, which even requires him to report to the Parliament in detail on specific efficiency audits at all. I suggest that the thrust of the Bill is, if anything, to make the Auditor-General a more useful adjunct not to the Parliament but to the Executive. He is drawn into the net of government through additional reports which he is required to make to ministers, which reports there is not requirement that Parliament should ever get to see. I have no doubt that the Auditor-General himself, as indeed he made clear in his evidence to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, sees clearly his primary responsibility as being to report to Parliament, but a wilful Executive embarrassed by the disclosures he may well be endeavouring to make may well make it difficult or impossible for him to realise that intention. I am prepared to assume for the moment that this is not the Government's intention. I am prepared to assume that it is enacting this legislation with the intention both of making it work in the way to which I drew attention earlier and also of ensuring that the Parliament's central role in the process is acknowledged and accepted. But I would be reinforced in that assumption if the Minister for Science and the Environment were to give some assurances to that effect in the course of this debate and I would believe even more in the Government's good faith if it were to accept the amendment to proposed new section 48F which I propose to move in the Committee stage. 
-The Opposition proposes an amendment to that part of clause 40 which seeks to introduce a new section 48F into the legislation. In particular, the amendment that has been circulated in my name is to sub-section (8) of proposed new section 48F. The substance of the amendment is as foreshadowed in my speech during the second reading debate. It is to convert what is at the moment merely a permissive requirement, in our submission, so far as the Auditor-General's reporting to Parliament is concerned, into a mandatory requirement that he so report. The present sub-section deals with the reporting to Parliament in respect of particular efficiency audits in relation to particular departments or authorities. Other provisions of the Bill deal with the general reporting that the Auditor-General would do in this respect on an annual basis. 
It will be noted that the present text of the subsection in question states that when the AuditorGeneral prepares a report of the results of an efficiency audit, he may: 
. . . include the report in the next report made by him under section 5 1 . . . 
That is, his usual annual report with respect to a particular body- 
he may include the report in a report made by him, otherwise than under section 51, . . . or 
he may treat the report as a special report and transmit signed copies of the report to each House of the Parliament. 
It is our contention, as is the subject matter of our amendment, that the expression 'he may' should be deleted in each of those sub-paragraphs. The sub-section should simply state that the AuditorGeneral shall either do one or other of those things. The effect of the amendment, in our submission, is, as I indicated, to convert a merely permissive section into a mandatory requirement. The reasons for our thinking that it ought to be a mandatory requirement were stated at some length during my speech in the second reading debate so I do not propose to repeat those remarks. 
However I do suspect that it may be argued by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster),  in reply, that this amendment, while not unexceptionable in principle, and while consistent with the Government's intention and the Auditor-General's intention and everybody else's intention, is nonetheless unnecessary as a matter of strict statutory language because- no doubt this will be suggested- in this instance 'may' is to be read as meaning 'shall'. It will be argued that it is one of those curious categories of 'may' that one finds in legal literature which are to be construed by the courts as mandatory rather than directory. I suggest in answer to that sort of contention by the Minister that whether a 'may' can ever be construed as a shall' is always a matter for construction or interpretation in the context of a particular section. From the way in which this section is drawn, one could not be confident that a court would so construe this provision. Perhaps I could put the point to the Minister in a form which he might understand. For example, if my wife, in a fit of tolerance- unusual, I suppose, for wives of members of parliament- were to say to me one weekend. 'You may go to the beach, or you may go to the cricket, or you may go to the pub', I suggest that I would not regard myself as being strictly required by her to do any one of those things. It would simply be a permissive indication of how I might spend perhaps a permissive weekend. I suggest that that is the way in which this 'may' as it recurs through this section ought to be understood. 
The situation is unsatisfactory on a matter as important and as central to this legislation as this is. It is not a minor quibble on some obscure aspect of the legislation that is unlikely ever to be of practical significance: It goes to the heart and soul of this legislation and the relationship between the Auditor-General and this Parliament. For those reasons, I suggest it is imperative that the Government accept the amendment proposed by the Opposition.  Mr Temporary Chairman,  I seek leave to move the two amendments together. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
1 ) Page 30, clause 40, proposed new sub-section 48f (8 ), line 12, after'relevant body', insert 'he shall either'. 
Let us look at proposed new section 48F. There is no permissiveness about it. We do not act in that way. The honourable senator can apply it to the problems with his wife if he wishes. Proposed new section 48F ( 1 ) states: 
Where the Auditor-General carries out an efficiency audit of operations of a relevant body under this Act, he shall prepare and sign a report of the results of the audit. 
There is nothing too permissive about that. It is a direction to the Auditor-General as to what he shall do. 
What does he do with the report after he has written it and signed it? That is the question. Does he just deliver it to the Minister or does he have to give it to the Parliament? 
Whether you carry on from there is the sixty-four dollar question. 
A report of the results of an efficiency audit of operations of a relevant body carried out by the Auditor-General- 
may include such information as he thinks desirable in relation to matters referred to in the report; 
shall set out his reasons for opinions expressed in the report and 
may include any recommendations arising out of the audit that he thinks fit to make. 
I have no quarrel with any of that. 
This doesn't help you; that's all. 
Subject to sub-section (9), where the Auditor-General prepared a report (other than a restricted report) of the results of an efficiency audit of operations of a relevant body- 
he may include the report in the next report made by him under section S 1 that includes his report with respect to the accounts, or financial statements, of that body; 
he may include the report in a report made by him, otherwise than under section 5 1 , with respect to the financial statements of the body, being a report a copy of which is required by an enactment to be laid before each House of the Parliament; or 
he may treat the report as a special report and transmit signed copies of the report to each House of the Parliament. 
Basically the amendment moved by  Senator Evans  is to insert after the words 'relevant body' the words 'he shall either' and to delete the words 'he may' wherever occurring in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of proposed new section 48F(8). 
Now you are getting warm. 
and (c) of proposed sub-section (2) require that the reports be tabled in Parliament. Section 53 of the existing Act states that a report prepared pursuant to section 5 1 shall be transmitted to Parliament. Clearly then, an efficiency audit report dealt with under paragraph (a) would also be tabled in Parliament.  Senator Evans  is perhaps concerned about the three paragraphs which commence with the words 'may'. The honourable senator did acknowledge that perhaps, in legal terms, it could be argued that may' means 'shall'.  His  interpretation might be that, because the Auditor-General may do certain things with his report, there is also an associated, silent option that he may do nothing and the report would not be tabled in Parliament. My advice from the Parliamentary Counsel is that proposed sub-section (8) not only gives the Auditor-General three options for dealing with the report but also imposes on him a duty to follow one of those options. That is certainly the spirit and intent of the proposed sub-section. That view is supported by the Auditor-General and the Department of Finance. 
A further relevant point is that proposed section 48g, which deals with the AuditorGeneral's annual report on efficiency audits, gives him two options in transmitting the report to Parliament. The wording of the options in that proposed section has the same structure as that used in proposed section 48f (8) but, as I understand it, no objection is raised to proposed section 48g. I have attempted to explain that the Government has had the benefit of the advice of Parliamentary Counsel. That advice seems to me to be fairly logical. The word 'may' is used, but as to the assertion that the Auditor-General may do nothing I point out that he is required to follow one of the options that are provided. 
-With respect, we have been subjected to some of the most mercilessly unmitigated waffle that we have been privileged to hear from the Minister for Science and Environment,  Senator Webster,  outside of the context of Question Time where, regrettably, that kind of behaviour is par for the course. Ninety per cent of what he said, and I suppose that as an accountant he has to be forgiven these excursions into the thickets of legalism, was absolutely and totally irrelevant to the point being made. Of course it is acknowledged that the Auditor-General has to prepare and sign a report, the contents of which are governed in various ways by other provisions of the Audit Act. The big question that remains to be considered is whether, having prepared a report, he is in fact obliged to give it to Parliament. All I will say about this- because it is the point to which the Minister finally came at the end of what he had to say- is that he was willing to concede what I am contending, that one possible construction of the language was that it had merely permissive rather than mandatory quality. 
The Minister was also willing to acknowledge that in this respect the Opposition was speaking on the basis of not merely a thought under the shower but rather a fairly careful legal analysis of the provision. All that he could weigh against that was the advice, which I readily concede is normally quite respectable, of Parliamentary Counsel to the effect that in this context the provision was to be read the other way; that there were all sorts of implications of a mandatory character. Might I put once again that in a situation like this, which surely concerns a matter with an importance of a very high order as far as this Parliament is concerned, if he is genuine in his desire to persuade the Senate that the Government of the day is anxious to look after the interests of Parliament he would concede at least the possibility- as indeed he has- of there being a rival interpretation of the provision and, as a result, indicate the Government's willingness to put the matter beyond doubt. That is what I ask him to do. If he concedes that there is some possible point to what I am saying, and if he concedes its importance, why will he not accept this amendment and involve himself in the necessarily rather cumbersome procedural things that will then have to be done to send the Bill again to the other House. Why will he not accept this point and put this important matter beyond doubt? 
-The reports in question were tabled in this chamber on 23 November last. On that occasion it was indicated to the Senate that the reports were aimed at tackling a series of problems which have beset the procedures of this place and this Parliament as a whole over the years and which have not really been satisfactorily resolved. The basic problem with which each report sought to deal was the way- regrettably it has been an all too common feature of our proceedings- in which Bills that come into the Parliament contain provisions which impinge in various ways upon the rights and liberties of the subject or, on the other hand, have the characteristic of amounting to a potentially excessive and unreasonable or inappropriate delegation of Parliament's authority. The particular problems in this respect that have been a feature of our legislative process are explained at some length in the reports. They were mentioned at some length in the comments of  Senator Missen  when introducing the reports and by me in speaking to them. 
Let me simply remind the Senate of the solutions to these problems proposed in the reports in question. The solution that is proposed by each of the reports in issue- the Scrutiny of Bills and the Delegation of Parliamentary Authority- is the same. It is the creation of a joint committee of this Parliament to be titled, we hope, the 'Joint Committee on Scrutiny of Bills'. The function of the committee would be to scrutinise Bills and report to Parliament about whether the text thereof, expressly or otherwise, did one of three things: First, trespassed unduly on personal rights and liberties; secondly, made rights, liberties and obligations unduly dependent upon insufficiently-denned administrative powers, or non-reviewable administrative decisions; or, thirdly, inappropriately delegated legislative powers or insufficiently subjected its exercise to parliamentary scrutiny. 
I remind the Senate also that the proposed joint committee would include four members of the House of Representatives and four members of the Senate. The proposed procedure would be that whenever a Bill was introduced in either House of the Parliament the committee would examine the terms of the legislation to see whether they conflicted with any of these three enunciated criteria- that is, any of the interests that the committee would be designed to safeguard. 
We recommend that the Standing Orders be changed so as to require a minimum delay of four sitting days between the introduction of a Bill and its passage. Of course, during that period the Committee would be expected to sit and to exercise its particular watchdog function, then report its findings to both Houses. In order to cope with the problem, which can arise from time to time, of" the need for emergency legislation, it was proposed that the Government still be able to pass legislation within that four-day period, but in order to do so be obliged to suspend Standing Orders. Also the committee would still have the power, after the legislation had been passed, to report, possibly adversely, on its terms. This would at least allow the Parliament an opportunity to come back and demand, after the event, that certain remedial action be taken. 
The Committee acknowledged that there were occasions when the Government, in the course of advancing some carefully thought out policy objective, would need consciously and deliberately to seek to pass a measure which, on the face of it, infringed one or other of these criteria. It may often be the case that when a government is set upon such a course that will be clear enough on the face of the legislation and the policy aspects of the legislation in that respect will be as a result the subject of extensive parliamentary debate. But that is not the particular kind of situation to which this proposed procedure is directed primarily. It is directed primarily at legislation which infringes these criteria in ways that are not obvious on the surface and tend not to be picked up. As I said earlier, all too often regrettably that is the case in the rather rushed circumstances in which we tend for the most part to go about our business. It is to ensure that there will be a residual safeguard- a watchdog or back-up mechanism to protect these fundamental parliamentary and community interests- that we are proposing the establishment of the committee. 
Having spoken at length previously on the subject, and not wishing to delay proceedings unduly by repeating myself, let me say simply that since the tabling of this report its virtues have received a considerable degree of editorial attention in the media. There has been some discussion of it in major feature articles in the Press. I refer in particular to an extensive article along these lines by David Solomon in the  Age  of 15 December. The report has been received with quite a degree of enthusiasm in the world at large. I hope that that enthusiasm will be repeated in this chamber, indeed in the Parliament as a whole and where it matters most- in the bosom of the Government. 
It is important to make just one final point in answer to those, perhaps now thankfully few, Senate chauvinists in our midst who may be tempted to take the view that there is something inappropriate about recommending a parliamentary review body of a joint rather than of a one-chamber kind. One does hear from the lips of some such people suggestions that it is the Senate which is, and ought to be, the chamber of review in this Parliament and that it is somehow an abdication of that function for the Senate to share the review process- even if it is acknowledged as highly desirable that there should be an innovative review process of the kind that is involved in this legislation. It is said by some to be undesirable that that function should be shared. I do not believe that that is a veiw that will commend itself to most honourable senators. I certainly hope that it is not one that ultimately will prevail. 
It ought to be a matter of maturity for us to appreciate and squarely acknowledge that what matters when one is talking about the reviewing of legislation, by reference to criteria such as these, is not the power or prerogatives of one chamber vis-a-vis another. What ought to be treated as mattering most is simply whether it amounts to an improvement in the legislative process as a whole. My suggestion is that the procedure contemplated in these reports which the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs have brought down, one that is quite innovative, not in existence to our knowledge anywhere else in the Westminster parliamentary world, will add a great deal to the quality of our legislative process. It is on that basis that I commend it to the Senate. 
My question also is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I remind him of his answer to a question asked in the Senate last Thursday on the subject of ministerial propriety when he spelt out the principle that Ministers should stand down or be stood down if there is any query as to their actions or where matters of high principle are involved. I ask: Is it not a fact that there have been substantial queries in relation to the activities of the current Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair?  Under those circumstances, why has the Minister for Primary Industry not stood down voluntarily or been asked to stand down? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the following matters be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: 
The desirability of amending section 44 (iv) of the Constitution in the terms proposed by the Constitution Alteration (Holders of Offices of Profit) Bill 1978 or otherwise; 
The desirability of changes to other provisions of the Constitution relating to the qualification and disqualification of members of parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
Was  Mr Malcolm  Fraser's advice to  Sir John  Kerr in support of his request for a double dissolution on 1 1 November 1975 made in oral or written form. 
If written, when will that advice be tabled in the Parliament, as was done with respect to the Prime Minister's advice and the Governor-General's decision after each of the 1914, 1951 and 1974 double dissolutions. 
-Despite the temptation which always comes upon me when I hear the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  make a speech such as that, let me ignore all the predictable, gratuitous and, as usual, quite ineffectual jibes, insults and heavy handed ironies of which his speech was so full. None of them remotely came to grips with the issues presently in dispute. Let me concentrate rather on analysing as coolly and rationally as I can just why the Opposition believes that there has been a failure by this Government to supervise and administer rural finance properly and why it is that that failure is properly regarded as a matter of urgent public importance. 
The particular aspects of Commonwealth rural finance with which we are concerned are Commonwealth moneys made available to the States for national disaster relief; Commonwealth moneys made available to the States for rural adjustment purposes; and probably alsothis is not altogether clear, for reasons I will explain- Commonwealth loan moneys made available to the States for general rural loan purposes through the respective State rural finance funds. 
The particular transactions which give rise to the Opposition's concern and this debate today are two loans of  $50,000  each, one at  4  per cent and the other at  10  per cent made on the same day in  1977  by the Victorian Rural Finance Commission to the Beggs family in the Western District. Of course, a part owner of the property concerned is none other than the wife of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Opposition is seriously and genuinely concerned about the circumstances under which these loans were made. I shall explain again why, taking each of the two loans in turn. The first loan of  $50,000  apparently is being justified as having been given for disaster relief purposes. Regrettably, this information did not come from the Minister today; it has had to come to us indirectly, from a statement apparently initiated by  Mr Morton  of the Rural Finance Commission. 
The loan was given by the Commission, acting as a general agent for the distribution of Commonwealth moneys in this respect, under section  35  of the Victorian Rural Finance Act. That provision, on its face, does not set any ceiling above which moneys cannot be given without the approval of the Victorian State Treasurer. It is an open-ended provision. The interest rate which was apparently set in respect of this loan was the concessional rate of  4  per cent, making it a very attractive little package for its recipients. The guidelines which govern the allocation of loan moneys for disaster relief purposes are set out in the  1977-78  Budget Papers. The criterion applicable is set out at page  88  of Budget Paper No.  7  in the following terms: 
. loan assistance on concessional terms to primary producers to enable them to get back into operation where finance is not available from other sources - 
That is the criterion which governs the administration of disaster relief through this mechanism. I shall summarise the questions which arise in respect of that matter: Firstly, conceding that there was substantial fire damage to the Beggs' property in question in early  1977,  was the Beggs family not sufficiently compensated for that damage by the  $180,000  compensation moneys which it received in the first instance from the insurance company, which moneys have been subsequently reimbursed to that insurance company by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria which has admitted liability? We have not been told of the extent to which that  $180,000  represented the totality or otherwise of the damage to the Beggs' property. It has been left up in the air for that assumption to be made by a gullible community. It has not been something to which the Government, in its replies to any of the Opposition approaches on this matter, has specifically expressed itself. 
Secondly, how does the  $50,000  which has been made available to the Beggs family for disaster relief, on top of that  $180,000  compensation which it has already received, compare with the sums that have been made available to other farmers in the area as a result of damage to a similar extent caused by the same fire? We have not been told. There has been no hard data put on the record. Honourable senators and the people of Victoria and Australia are entitled to their suspicions as to how this money was administered in the absence of such hard information. Perhaps more importantly, how does the payment compare with the amounts of money that have been made available for disaster relief purposes to the farmers of Gippsland arising out of the floods in that area, in particular during early  1978?  Dozens of farmers have been struggling to obtain no more than a lousy  $3,000  or  $4,000  each- if that- from the Victorian Rural Finance Commission to cope with their severe and substantial property damage, in many cases running into tens of thousands of dollars. When they compare the  $50,000  handout that has been made to the Beggs-Fraser family in the Western District with the money the family has been able to obtain from the same agency, how can they be blamed if they suspect that something has gone haywire in the administration and supervision of this aspect of Commonwealth rural funds? 
I now wish to turn to the second loan of  $50,000.  Apparently this is being justified as a loan made under the general loan provisions in Part III of the Victorian Rural Finance Act. Again,  Senator Webster  has not put this on the record, so honourable senators are left to speculate through indirect information. Of course, the moneys in question were derived largely from Commonwealth loan moneys and, as such, are a proper matter for Commonwealth responsibility and concern. The Senate has been informed that this loan was made at an interest rate of  10  per cent. This provision in the Victorian Act- if, indeed, this loan was made under the Part III provisions of the Act- is subject to a statutory ceiling of $50,000 beyond which the approval of the State Treasurer is necessary. Loans below the $50,000 mark can be made under Part III of that Act without the formal approval of the Treasurer. Of course, the Victorian State Treasurer is  Mr Hamer,  whose financial connections with the Fraser-Beggs family are by now a matter of public record. 
What are the questions that arise in respect of this particular loan about which the Australian community and this Parliament are entitled to be very concerned? I suggest that there are some very serious questions. In the first place, let me put to the Parliament the following question: Was this second loan of $50,000 really made under this head of the Victorian Rural Finance Act, as is apparently being claimed by  Mr Morton  in justification of that loan? If it was, I suggest that the loan was made quite illegally. I say that carefully and thoughtfully on the basis of a reading of section 38 ( 1 ) (a) of the Victorian Rural Finance Act, which states: 
Any loan made under this Part-(a) shall . . . (together with the amount of any other loan made by the Commission to the same borrower and not repaid) shall unless the Treasurer approves not be greater than $50,000; 
I suggest that the Act states clearly and unequivocally that if a loan made under this section, together with any other loan currently made and outstanding by the Commission to the same borrower, totals more than $50,000, the approval of the Treasurer- in this case the approval of the State Premier,  Mr Hamer-  is required. We know that such an approval was not obtained. I suggest it follows as clearly as night follows day that either the loan was made under this section and is illegal or that it was not made under this section but was made under some other section. If it was not made under this part of the Rural Finance Act, under what part could it have been made if it was a legally authorised loan? 
The only possible alternative is that, once again, it was made under section 35 of the general agency provisions of the Victorian Act. There are two possible purposes for which it could have been made under those provisions. One such purpose is our old friend, the natural disaster purpose. As honourable senators have heard, that was used to justify the first $50,000 loan. If this was the purpose for which the second $50,000 loan was being made- making a grand total of $100,000 being given to the Beggs family for disaster relief- how much stronger does that make the criticisms that I have already advanced about the doubts which surround the justice of and the justification for a loan being made at all to the Beggs family, given the $180,000 it received from the State Electricity Commission? If a total amount of $ 100,000 was received for disaster relief at a combined interest rate of 7V6 per cent, which is calculated on the basis of the 4 per cent and 10&amp; per cent interest rates, it is a very attractive package indeed. If the money was being paid out for disaster relief how much more entitled to be upset are those Gippsland dairy farmers who have been struggling to get their measly $3,000 or $4,000 out of this same fund? How much more demanding of justification and explanation is this particular loan? 
If it was not for disaster relief purposes the only other realistic alternative is that it must have been for debt reconstruction purposes. Perhaps this second $50,000 loan was made for debt reconstruction purposes. As  Senator Walsh  said, this was the kind of language employed by the Beggs family spokesman in explaining to the world at large how it was the family came to receive its loan. It is also suggested as the explanation by the fact that, as I will mention again in a moment, a mortgage in respect of another loan was simultaneously discharged at the time this particular loan was granted by the Rural Finance Commission, which does suggest that there was some debt reconstruction operation going on. 
If it were a debt reconstruction exercise, what are the criteria on which loan moneys should have been made available out of the public purse, basically out of the Commonwealth purse, for this purpose? Once again let us turn to the criteria that are set out in the Act and the agreements that govern these things. The relevant criteria are set out in the schedule to the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act with which  Senator Webster  is no doubt familiar. Part 2 of the Schedule states that if loans are to be granted for debt reconstruction purposes then they are to be made to assist a farmer who, although having sound prospects of long term commerical viability, has used all his cash and credit resources and cannot meet his financial commitments. Are we seriously to believe that this criterion was applicable to the Beggs-Fraser family in the Western District, one of the biggest and best known land owners and graziers in that area? Had they used all their cash and credit resources? 
A further question arises and adds a greater poignancy to that question which I have just asked when one appreciates, as I foreshadowed a moment ago, that at the same time as that loan was granted a mortgage was discharged in relation to a previously existing loan. The discharged mortgage was to an outfit called Ambulando Nominees. This was a financing concern carried on by a firm of solicitors, Aitken, Strachan and Walker, one of the partners of which firm was none other than James Ford Strachan who himself is one of the joint owners, along with Tamie Fraser, of the very Nareeb property that is now at issue. Maybe there is an explanation for all of this. Maybe  Mr Strachan  had no money in Ambulando Nominees that was the lender to the property of which he was part owner. Maybe the mortgage loan in question was for. some small sum which was insufficient to meet the current financial needs of the Nareeb property. Maybe some larger lo.an was justified. But the unsavoury impression lingers that the loan from the Rural Finance Commission from public moneys, essentially from Commonwealth moneys, was used to pay out a loan from a firm involving one of the property owners and to shift the burden of financing the. Fraser-Beggs property away from this owner and away from available private sources of funds on to the State, on to the taxpayer. 
As  Senator Walsh  has said,  Mr Hugh  Beggs has been reported on  Nationwide  as saying that the repayments on the Victorian Government loan were easier to manage than the interest on the original debts. The other  Mr Beggs  of course said that he shopped around for the lower rate. No doubt these payments were easier to manage but is this what Commonwealth rural finance is for? Is it to make life just a little easier for those who are already sitting on top of the economic peak and who are perfectly capable of coping with their own financial problems without resorting to the Australian taxpayer and to Commonwealth funds which have been so conspicuously mismanaged in this area by the Government of which  Senator Webster  purports to be a member? 
My question, which is addressed to the Attorney-General, concerns the Diplomatic and Consular Missions Act which was passed by this Parliament more than six months ago. Is the Attorney under pressure from senior Liberal Party officials in Victoria and New South Wales and from members of Parliament from those two States not to enforce that Act? Is it not true that the Commonwealth Police interviewed officials of the so-called 'Croatian Embassy' in Canberra on 8 November last year following instructions from the Attorney more than a month earlier? Did the Attorney receive a report on this matter from his Department or from the Crown Solicitor? If so, when? Has such a report recommended that he make application under section 4 of the Act for an injunction to restrain the continuance of this illegal organisation? When, if at all, does the Attorney propose toad? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. It follows her answer to an earlier question by  Senator Grimes  in which she said that the subject matter of today's exchange was different from the subject matter of  Senator Grimes's  earlier question. Is it not the case that  Senator Grimes's  original question in November 1978 asked about the involvement of departmental officers in the social security enforcement operation in April 1978? Is it not the case that the Minister replied in her letter to him of 5 December that she had been advised by the Director-General and the Commissioner of Police that no officer of the Department was involved? Is it further the case that the only qualification that she made to that proposition in her letter of 5 December was a reference to certain junior officers of the Department being involved as what she described as liaison officers in the provision of necessary information to the police? Would the Minister not concede that in those circumstances, whether it is all her fault or that of her Director-General and whatever the personal fate of the Director-General may be as a result of this latest extravaganza, that this was a serious misleading of the Parliament on a matter of substance, so serious in fact that if the principle of ministerial responsibility means anything she should add her name to the growing list of people who have tendered their resignations to the Prime Minister? 
I present the following petition from 39 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That annual indexation of pensions severely affects the livelihood and standard of living of Australia 's pensioners. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this House direct the Government to reintroduce twice yearly indexation as a prelude to quarterly indexation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
It is a great honour to follow  Senator Durack  at this late stage in the debate on the Sydney social securities fraud affair. After all, it is not often that the Government feels obliged to wheel in not just one but two Ministers to answer an Opposition urgency motion. Is it not an indication- if indeed that was not already obvious from the emptiness of what has been said by the two Ministers- of just how nervous the Government is about its inability to answer with precision, detail and conviction the series of questions about the conduct of this affair that have been put so admirably and succinctly by  Senator Grimes  and  Senator Gietzelt?  Their contributions have been so effective that I do not propose to burden the Senate with unnecessary and tedious repetition. The charges have already been effectively made. 
Let me proceed to deal with an aspect of the affair that has received only fleeting attention. I would suggest that not the least unpalatable feature of this whole unsavoury episode has been the way in which the whole Greek community has been abused, insulted, denigrated and defamed as a result of the actions and attitudes of those at all levels responsible for the conduct of the operation in question in April 1 978, and of course the reports by the media of those actions and their aftermath and the apparently endless court procedures. 
The contribution that I want to make is to suggest that one of the constructive things that might emerge from the kind of public inquiry that we are urging, is a recommendation for a change in the law, and in particular in the law of defamation, to ensure that this sort of thing will not happen again or be less likely to happen again. In considering the trauma that the Greek community has been subjected to since the start of this affair, nobody in the Government or in the media has emerged with much credit. We have learnt with regret just how close to the surface these reserves of xenophobia are in this country, even after 30 years of European immigration, and even after the creation, or what most of us would like to think has been the creation, of a multi-cultural society. 
For a start, little credit attaches to the behaviour of those most immediately involved in the conduct of the affair of April 1978. A number of aspects, specifically police behaviour, have been canvassed by earlier speakers. Well-founded complaints have been made and documented to the effect that many of the police barged in without having or producing warrants, perpetrated irregularities in the conduct of interviews and detained in police custody without charge for sustained periods particular members of the Greek community. These have all been recalled to the Senate. But in addition to all those particular matters, what emerges most clearly from all the accounts of this affair is what can only be described as a conspicuous lack of sensitivity on the part of the officers most immediately concerned. Several reports have come forward from the Redfern Legal Service of derogatory remarks being made by particular police officers in the course of conducting those raids- remarks to the effect that: 'We are going to fix you Greek people' and remarks to the effect that 'the Greek community should be sent back to an island '. In addition we have the documented allegations that a number of people were plucked from doctors' waiting rooms during the course of these police investigations, simply because of their 
Greek name or because of their obvious Greek descent. They were detained and interrogated even though on numerous instances charges were not subsequently laid, whereas others in identical circumstances, even in some cases in identical waiting rooms, were not so detained or interrogated simply because they were not in fact of Greek name or of Greek descent. It was a dragnet operation, but it was a dragnet operation of a very selective kind, directed specifically at the Greek community. 
Then there was the series of extravagant claims made by Chief Inspector Don Thomas to which both  Senator Grimes  and  Senator Gietzelt  have referred. The officer in charge of this operation, flushed with the drama of it all- and his character as the mastermind of it all- made a series of Press statements to the effect, as we have been reminded today, that some 1,000 or more people were involved, that up to 1,000 future charges would be laid, and that 350 or more people would be brought back from Greece- all prophecies which have completely misfired. As we have been reminded today, less than 200 charges have been pressed. No one has been brought back from Greece. Indeed, of all the thousands of people in Greece receiving pensions, only 135 of those pensions were stopped as a result of these investigations and I understand that at least 29 of them have been restored subsequently. Inspector Thomas's predictions were part of this whole set of self-serving statements that were made at the time about the massive scale of the operation. As  Senator Gietzelt  reminded us, the statement was made that this was the biggest crime operation, the biggest criminal breakthrough, in Australian police history. It was all part of the claim that huge sums of money were involved and that the tentacles of this matter spread throughout the migrant community, when in fact the misbehaviour, if such there was- and this of course is a matter for the courts to determine- was confined to a small group of people in a very small area of this country. 
Referring again in this context to aspects of the behaviour of those people most involved we have the Horafios Greek affair, which has been the subject of some discussion already today. It has been admitted that in at least one case a person was photographed with a signboard bearing his nationality described upon it. This was denied by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  as was subsequently revealed, on the basis that the word in question was not 'Greek', as had been claimed, but 'Greece'. Whether or not the Minister in fact can blame successfully all or part of this episode, like the others, on the bad advice she has received, the fact remains that with this one, as with the Lanigan affair that we discussed yesterday and today, the Minister is developing a reputation for semantic quibbling that would make a Jesuit blush. However much she may quibble about these semantic points, the point remains, as indeed she directly acknowledged today, that there was a gratuitous ethnic identification in this particular aspect of the police activity that was carried out. 
This phenomenon of gratuitous ethnic identification, which is the single greatest source of concern to us and to the Greek community, involves the media's handling of everything that followed this unhappy affair. The media reporting throughout the whole course of this matter has bordered on the really quite scandalous, with repeated reckless references to Greeks or the Greek community as being responsible for this so-called social security fraud of massive and unprecedented proportions. This is a perfect demonstration of what  Mr Grassby  complained of in his 1976 Commissioner for Community Relations report. He referred to the irresistible tendency which the Australian media seems to have in reporting criminal cases, of describing Australian citizens by their ethnic background, even if they are born in Australia, if that background happens to be other than Anglo-Saxon. There have been innumerable spectacular examples in the media of this phenomenon at work. 
I have noted at least three categories of media denigration along these lines. I shall give a quick example of each. The first category might be described as the 'giggling adolescent stereotyping'. An excellent example of that was a report which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of 13 June last year which, without reading it into the record, involved no less than five separate references to Greeks or to the Greek community in the first five sentences of that report, together with innumerable other references in what purported to be a description of the initial court hearings involving bedlam, chaos and unpronouncable names. The whole colour and flavour of this report was calculated, intentionally or otherwiseone does not know- to appeal to every latent schoolboy prejudice which regrettably still prevails in the Australian community. 
Then we had the class of media comment or analysis of this affair which one might describe as patronising irony'. An excellent example of that particular phenomenon is this by now notorious article by one Victor Walker headed, 'Ah, those "gentlemen pensioners" ', which appeared to the shame of the Melbourne  Herald  again round about June 1 978. The article, after a preface relating to the Sydney social security affair and pensioners returning to Greece to live on Australian pensions, went on to talk about the situation in these terms: 
Few ordinary Greeks in any kind of job, and almost none on pension, could hope to live as well in this country as a Greek Australian mucking along on $ 100 a week. 
It then went on to describe in elaborately ironical and cynical terms that perhaps would have made even Evelyn Waugh feel a little bit ashamed, the life in Athens of a Greek Australian pensioner gentleman of leisure. Patronising irony and a contemptible tone run right through that kind of reporting and, regrettably it is not unique. 
Then we had the kind of reporting which I describe simply as 'throw-away character assassination' of the kind perhaps revealed in a very fine example by that master of the art, Peter Samuel, in his contribution to the  Bulletin  of 4 July 1978. In the course of one short paragraph he succeeded in defaming no less than three complete ethnic communities by imputing massive criminality to them without offering a shred of evidence, and indeed no such evidence has subsequently appeared. This is the paragraph in which he said: 
For example, the $60 m a year fraud by Greeks is said to have been only one of three major organised rip-offs detected in the Social Security Department. Turks and Lebanese have been involved in other major organised frauds, say department officials. 
What can be done about this kind of thing which, as we know, has caused acute unhappiness, profound unhappiness, in the Greek community? If anyone was unable to get access, because of the language barrier, to what the Greek community has been saying in its own newspapers about this matter, I refer him to the report summarising complaints along these lines, once again received by the Commissioner for Community Relations. That report is set out in detail on pages 78 and 79 of the latest annual report of the Commissioner. I will read just one of the comments which have been recurring to the following effect: 
The Australian press is having an orgy and at this moment it is hard to predict the harmful consequences that this scandal will have for all of us. This constitutes a national insult and brings shame on us all. 
There are innumerable other comments to that effect in the report. The reaction of the Greek community is not in doubt. What do I suggest should be done about this? What sort of constructive suggestion can be made about this aspect of the problem which was generated in so conspicuous a way by this social security frauds affair? What sort of solution can perhaps emerge? I suggest that one of the most attractive proposals is a change in the law of defamation, to enable a remedy to be provided for group defamation- where no individual is specifically defamed or damaged but where there is an unjustified blackening of the good name of the whole community or social or ethnic group. At the moment, of course, to defame a group generally is not actionable. There must be some imputation about particular members of it. No doubt the justification for that prohibition is the perhaps oppressive multiplicity of damages claims which might otherwise be brought. 
Might I suggest that there is a relatively simple legal way of getting over that. It was canvassed by the Law Reform Commission in its discussion paper on the subject in 1977. It was not, as no doubt  Senator Missen  will tell us with great aplomb in a moment, ultimately recommended with any great enthusiasm by the Committee. Nonetheless, it is a proposition which I suggest deserves the careful and sympathetic attention of this Senate and this Parliament. The suggestion is that the law of defamation should be changed to create an avenue for an action by representatives or members, as a whole, of a group which has been defamed. That action would take the form not of a claim for damages but rather the seeking of a declaration as to the falsity of the slur in question, and perhaps an injunction, if that were sought, against its repetition in the future. It is the kind of action which is familiar enough in other jurisdictions overseas, where this kind of issue has long been one of community sensitivity. I would recommend it to this Parliament as something which deserves very serious consideration indeed. 
There are, of course, many contexts other than the Greek social security fraud affair in which such an action might have had some utility. One obvious example that is in the recent memory of all, I fear, would be the Griffith Italian marihuana growing affair. There was conspicuous repetition of reckless media references to Italians', 'Calabrians', 'Sicilians', the Mafia and so on, in a way that brought great and unjustified harm and disrepute upon the Italian community as a whole. 
I suggest that these proposals would not in any way inhibit the reporting, or conducting, of vigorous public debates on controversial issues. What it might do is curb some of the more wildly irresponsible racial statements that have been so deeply hurtful to large sections of the community, or at least ensure that the victims of such irresponsible statements will be given a right of reply. A right of reply, a right to be heard in their own defence, is something which the victims of the government mismanagement of the Sydney social security affair, which we are discussing today, have so far not had. The situation which arose was an unhappy one but one which could be remedied at least to some extent, we suggest, by the conducting of a public inquiry of the kind that this motion urges. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the existence of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. We did not as a responsible Government and we do not now as a responsible Opposition. Whether we like it or not, whether we have reservations or not- and many of us do- we have to recognise that the existence of an effective, national security organisation is a necessary evil. Nor do we oppose any genuine attempt to put the Organisation's structure, functions and powers on a proper statutory basis. We recognise that the present Act is hopelessly inadequate for this purpose. The Opposition when in government set in train the Hope Royal Commission in 1974 for the purpose, among others, of rewriting it. The findings of the Hope Commission- not that all of them have been officially made publicconfirmed our worst fears about the disreputable mess that the Organisation had got itself into by the early 1970s. 
The Hope report revealed a record of incompetence, of maladministration, of lack of professionalism, of erratic political bias and of systematic illegality in the use of surveillance techniques which were not specifically authorised by law. It was a record which demanded drastic action if ASIO's continued existence was to be capable of justification in any kind of democratic society. We have been told that remedial action has been set in train at the executive level; that there has been a substantial turnover in the composition of the Organisation, in the recruitment of many new staff, of a much higher level of qualification and professional competence. In particular, we have now seen the appointment of  Mr Justice  Woodward as the Director-General, a man of whose personal competence and integrity we are in no doubt. We have no doubt either that there has been a clean-up going on of quite massive proportions within the Organisation although we have been told very little about its details. This is the development which we applaud. 
Now we have before us a new ASIO Bill which is intended to be the cap stone of this whole process of renewal and reform, intended to be a detailed statutory statement of the structure and ground rules on which ASIO is to operate into the foreseeable future. Regrettably, however, the Bill that is now before us is not a development that we can applaud. As  Senator Button  and  Senator Puplick  said, it would be highly desirable if we could develop a bipartisan approach to these issues. We would like to but we cannot because the Bill is a spectacular disappointment. It is riddled with all the flaws and inadequacies that we have come to expect in government legislation on just about any topic- flaws and inadequacies that make its acceptance in its present form absolutely out of the question. 
There are of course some good things in the Bill.  Senator Button  identified them. In particular there is the long overdue establishment of the security appeals system. But, like the curate's egg, it is just not good enough for a Bill to be good in parts. The rotten parts are such as to make the whole of the Bill inedible and we cannot and will not accept it as it stands. Nor would I have thought that  Senator Puplick  would have been prepared to accept it as it stands given the variety and range of qualifications that he expressed of particular aspects. 
The amendment moved by the Opposition explains in detail just why it is that we do regard the ASIO Bill before the chamber now as unpalatable and unacceptable in its present form and why we demand that it should be withdrawn and redrafted. I take the Senate through the grounds of objection to the Bill which are set out in our amendment, foreshadowing in the process, albeit only in outline at this stage, the kind of detailed amendment that we will be seeking to make at the Committee stage if indeed the Bill survives that far and is read a second time. 
The first five of the matters to which we draw attention in our amendment all amount to a series of accountability measures which we believe should be incorporated in the Bill. They represent a set of additional institutional checks and balances which we believe are crucially necessary if ASIO is to be able to command any kind of confidence that it is not misusing its powers. The present Bill proceeds on the assumption that all we have to do is swallow our reservations and doubts and just have complete confidence in the personal good faith and integrity of two men- the Director-General of ASIO and the Attorney-General. The Bill makes no provision for any kind of accountability of, the reporting to or the involvement of any other person or body, be it the Parliament, the Leader of the Opposition on any scale, the AuditorGeneral, the judiciary or whoever else. It is true that it may be just possible to accept that state of affairs if matters go no further than the present incumbents of those particular offices. 
I have already said about  Mr Justice  Woodward that the Opposition does have complete confidence in his competence and integrity. So long as he remains in office we have no great cause for alarm in that particular respect. So far as the present Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  is concerned, I also feel obliged to concede that the Opposition does not feel especially threatened by him. Indeed, the greatest single threat most of us feel when  Senator Durack  is on his feet is that we will fall asleep before he finishes his sentence. In the present Government beastiary- if I can describe it as such- I would be obliged to concede that  Senator Durack  would not be at the lion or hyena end of the scale but rather what I may describe as the dormouse end of that particular scale. The problem with  Senator Durack  is not so much getting him to stop doing anything awful; rather it is to get him to start doing anything. 
The difficulty is that whilst we may be able to tolerate a state of affairs involving the two present incumbents we cannot be guaranteed that in the future ASIO will go on being governed by a civilised judge or a mild mannered and relatively indolent Attorney. We have to build a system which is proof, so far as it is possible to devise, against its incumbents, proof against the resurrection of a Spry or a Barbour as Director-General, and proof against the resurrection of someone with the kind of robust attitudes to his job that were so amply demonstrated publicly by the late  Senator Greenwood.  Accordingly, we propose a fivefold system of additional checks and balances which would embody a greater degree of accountability than is involved at the moment. 
The first such element- paragraph (a) of our amendment- would be to have a requirement of annual reports to Parliament. I agree with what  Senator Puplick  says; it is unreasonable to anticipate that any such reporting to Parliament could be anything more than fairly general in its terms but we would hope nonetheless that the general operations of ASIO could be described in this public forum. We also hope that an annual report to Parliament would provide and put on the public record quite specific details about the exercise of this extraordinary array of special powers which is now to be provided both in this Bill and reinforced in the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill which is also before the Senate. A precedent was set for disclosure of this kind of information by former  Senator Murphy  who, as Attorney-General in 1 973, disclosed that over the course of the previous 10 years there had been an average of 100 or so telephone taps- he gave the precise figures- authorised for security purposes under the then existing legislation. Although there were all sorts of dire prognostications to the contrary, the sky did not fall in when that revleation was made. We also believe that the sky would not fall in if detailed information as to the number and kind of warrants issued under this part of the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill 1979 relating to telephone taps and, in the case of this Bill, as to listening devices, mail interceptions, telegram interceptions and physical search warrants was revealed. Indeed, some indication could also be given of the categories of security pursuant to which and in the course of action against which those warrants were issued. We ask for a reporting requirement to Parliament. 
Secondly, we ask for a periodic judicial audit. This is dealt with in paragraph (b) of our amendment. The investigation by  Mr Justice  Hope, although we by no means agree with all of his recommendations, was itself an indication of the value of this kind of independent judicial scrutiny of and report on a security agency. So, too, in our opinion, although there might be contrary views about this from some sources, was the action of  Mr Justice  White in relation to cleaning up the extraordinary mess that the South Australian Special Branch had got itself into, as revealed in the course of the Salisbury affair. We want to embody in the legislation provision for a regular periodic independent judicial audit of that kind allowing the judge in question to have detailed access to and scrutiny of all the individual files as well as the general operations of the agency in question. 
It may not be much to the taste of the existing Director-General to contemplate having a brother judge second guessing him and looking over his shoulder in this kind of exercise. However, it is not a matter involving his personal integrity. Rather, it is a matter of guaranteeing the integrity of the system. In this proposed Act we may be designing a system which will outlive us all. 
The third matter relating to accountability, as set out in paragraph (c) of our amendment, deals with a restatement of the responsibility of the Minister himself. As  Senator Puplick  has stated, clause 8 of the present Bill confers upon the Minister of the day general powers to give directions to the Director-General. But it limits his specific powers to give directions in a number of specified ways, some of which we believe are unacceptable. We believe that the approach to the exercise of ministerial control and responsibility should be one of absolutely maximising so far as possible the power of the Minister vis-a-vis the Director-General because only the Minister is politically accountable to Parliament and the people in any sense at all. We believe that any restrictions on that power vested in the Minister should be as narrowly defined as possible. 
The only really legitimate or acceptable limitation we see as appropriate on the power of the Minister in this respect- in the Committee stage we will be attempting to amend the Bill accordingly- would be to limit his power of access to the detailed content of individual files or individual papers containing security assessments of particular individuals. Certainly, the 
Minister should know of the existence of such individual files or records, but not their actual content. The Opposition takes the view that in this area, and in this area alone, the dangers of political abuse by the Minister of the day, or legitimate community concerns about the possibility of that abuse, outweigh in this instance, and this instance alone, the concept of total control by total accountability in the Minister himself. 
Fourthly, we seek in paragraph (d) of our amendment to give the Leader of the Opposition a greater formal power and access to the system. We have been told that the Government's intention is to give the Leader of the Opposition a significant role. The bipartisan aspect of the new security arrangements was emphasised a very great deal by  Mr Justice  Hope. The difficulty about all of this is that the Bill, as it is presently drafted, does not convey or contain any such undertaking. It states only that the Leader of the Opposition shall be consulted before a new Director-General is appointed. He is not consulted before an acting Director-General is appointed. He does not get formal access to the annual report submitted to the Minister. He does not get told about the granting or the authorisation of special power warrants. We believe that in all these respects and others as well there should be a formal statutory authority and access to the system vested in the Leader of the Opposition, thus amounting to a quite significant deterrent to what might otherwise be the temptationS to abuse engaged in by the Director-General and more particularly the Minister of the day. It would not then be a matter of the only sanction being a possible change of government. The sanction would be the knowledge of the then immediately existing Leader of the Opposition that something was going wrong. 
I turn finally in this five point accountability approach that we are insisting upon to the financial accountability. It is dealt with in paragraph (e) in our amendment. The Hope report made it perfectly clear that there should be some independent element, namely the AuditorGeneral, involved in ensuring that there is no financial mismanagement in the Organisation and that there is a proper expenditure of the appropriation made by Parliament for the annual services of the organisation. This has been a subject of quite extraordinary revelations in this Parliament in recent weeks. Hitherto, the legal situation has been that the Audit Act applied in this area and the Auditor-General has had formal responsibility. Two or three weeks ago the Audit Act was amended to remove any role of the 
Auditor-General in this area and to create a system simply of ministerial certification. 

 Senator Webster, perhaps in his innocence, revealed to the Parliament on that occasion that all the amendment to the Audit Act was doing was formalising an illegal procedure which had been operating, God help us, for most of the last 30 years. The way the Opposition would tackle this is not to formalise an existing illegality but to rewrite the rules so as to provide a genuine independent auditing element to ensure that even if the Parliament does not get to see the details, even if it does not operate in the normal way that the Audit Act does, nonetheless the Parliament and the people could have some assurance and some credible belief at least about the level of financial control and accountability. As we all know, the lack of financial control and accountability has been enormously important in the United States of America in allowing the Central Intelligence Agency to run amok as it did for so many years. At least in that area we could be assured that the independent authority of the Auditor-General was being applied. 
So much for the general network of our provisions which we think are appropriate so far as accountability is concerned. Let me turn very briefly to some of the other major concerns about the operation and drafting of this Bill which the Opposition has and which, at this stage, mean that we cannot give it our support. Reference is made in paragraph (f) of our amendment to our concern about the width of the definition of security in the Bill as it stands at the moment. After all, the definition of security is the linchpin on which the whole Bill operates. It is the basis on which the powers of the Organisation to do anything are defined. It is the starting point.  Senator Puplick  expressed a number of reservations about particular aspects of this definition. Let me add a couple from the Opposition's point of view. 
At present we see the definition of security, and in particular the definition of that element of security described as subversion, as wide enough to encompass certain presently quite legal forms of industrial action, namely those affecting perhaps only indirectly aspects of the operation of the defence forces. We also see the definition of subversion as wide enough to encompass, certainly on its face, forms of political activity falling far short of anything to do with promoting or engaging in violence. We believe that the concept of subversion and the definition of security as a whole, of which it is part, should be redefined, narrowed and made much more precise so that the concept of subversion would be linked quite explicitly and directly to that of violence. If it is not, we suggest, in this way the concept of subversion and with it the whole concept of security on which the Bill turns will be completely open-ended and uncontrollable. 
The next matter for concern, from the Opposition 's point of view, is of course, the whole section of the Bill dealing with special powers and the warrants pursuant to which those powers can be exercised. It is a central feature of this Bill and the telecommunications Bills which go with it and which vest wholly new powers in the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in this area. Let me try to convey to the Senate some impression of just how staggering the implications for civil liberties and, in particular, of personal privacy are if these powers are exercised on any kind of substantial or regular basis. In the 1975 Australian Law Reform Commission report on Criminal Investigation to which  Senator Button  has already referred, a calculation was done based on United States experience of the effect that the 107 telephone tappings that had taken place in 1973 in this country would have had so far as the number of people caught up by such telephone tappings are concerned. I am referring to the number of security taps that the former  Senator Murphy  announced and acknowledged to have taken place in the 12 months prior to his announcement on 12 August 1973. 
The calculation that the Law Reform Commission came up with was that applying the sort of ratio of the number of conversations and the number of people overheard to each tap, based on United States experience and bearing in mind that the Act authorises and most taps stay on for periods of up to six months, that number of taps in 1973- telephone alone, nothing to do with listening devices and so on- may have resulted in as many as 12,000 different people being overheard having as many as 68,000 different conversations. 
Now it is a matter of lively debate just how far one goes towards resolving the legitimate worries it is possible to have about the extent and application and operation of these powers, whether one should have only judicial warrants in this area or limit the operation of the provision in some other way. In the event, the Opposition proposes to tackle this problem by specifying that the kind of restrictions which should operate here are essentially as to time, and the duration for which these warrants can be applied should be quite substantially limited. There also should be further limitations on the circumstances in which so-called emergency warrants can, in fact, be issued. 
A further point in our list of objections to this Bill, paragraph (h) in our proposed amendment, relates to the use of ASIO information by State authorities. We see the provision in clause 1 9 of the Bill providing for co-operation between ASIO and State authorities giving rise to what we cannot help but regard as the alarming prospect of federal information being supplied to the States for their own internal security purposes but without the kinds of safeguards attached to the supply of such information that are now to exist at the Federal level with the existence and creation of a security appeals system. We take the view that while there may be circumstances in which the supply of such information would be legitimate, the supply of such information ought only to be made upon condition that the States develop and have their own appeals mechanisms to ensure that if an injustice does occur in the application of this kind of assessment information there is a remedy for the person concerned. The Opposition will be moving accordingly again in Committee stage. 
A further objection, paragraph (i) in our proposed amendment, goes to the question of the retrospective operation of the proposed new securities appeals system.  Mr Justice  Hope clearly and unequivocally recommended that the new appeals procedure be retrospective in operation so that people who have been adversely affected in the past in their career opportunities, their citizenship applications and so on, should have the opportunity to get the validity of those proceedings in the past independently assessed and reviewed. Let us be clear about the number of cases that may well have arisen under this head in the past. At the moment as the main Bill now stands, the situation will not be subject to any kind of review.  Mr Justice  Hope reported that in the five years before 1977 ASIO security checks were done on 344,000 different people. Extrapolating backwards, taking into account the number of Australian Government applicants because they were the prime category, of course, of security checks in those days, it has been calculated, or one can readily calculate, that there must have been something over one million security checks done on people, a million files accumulated over the first 25 years of ASIO 's operation. 
What proportion of those checks resulted in an adverse security assessment? What proportion in turn of those adverse security assessments were, in fact, unjustifiable and would be, as it were, overturned on review, we cannot know. We do not have access to that kind of information. What is very clear is that there is a very large number of people in the community nursing grievances about real or imagined maltreatment in this respect. They ought to be given the opportunity to test them. It is a complicated matter to devise a procedure to enable this to happen, but we will tackle the task of putting the proposal in this respect to the Parliament again in the Committee stage. 
Now let me turn to paragraph (j) of our proposed amendment. This is the  Catch 22  provision as it has been quite accurately described in the legislation. That extraordinary provision in clause 37(2) of the Bill provides that if the Attorney-General certifies that it would be dangerous to security to do so then the notification of an adverse security assessment need not be given to the person affected, thus denying him any opportunity not only to know what has happened but in fact to bring an appeal before the Tribunal. The Opposition believes that that kind of provision is quite indefensible. There is no security situation that is likely to arise in any practical sense which could ever justify it. We shall certainly be moving for its deletion. 
We can discuss the details,  Senator Hamer,  in the Committee stage and will be delighted to do so. 
Then we come finally to paragraph (k) of the proposed amendment, the question of communication of information. The primary concern of the Opposition here- I suggest it is a concern which should be felt by the community at large and, of course, by every one in this Parliament- is that quite extraordinarily harsh penalties of $1,000 fines or one year's gaol are being provided. I am referring primarily here to clause 90 which refers to persons who communicate information which could be regarded as identifying an ASIO employee or an ASIO agent. It could be anyone at all in the Organisation or a paid recipient of organisation benevolence other than the Director-General himself. The Opposition believes, putting it simply and shortly, that this provision is too harsh and should be substantially modified in terms of the kind of expectation that communications, the media and everyone else in the community have hitherto had about the operations of these organisations and that the modification should take the form of requiring this kind of clause apply only when the revelation of the information in question would either endanger the physical safety of the particular operative concerned or else would seriously prejudice national security. 
It should be clear then that our objections to the ASIO Bill are sweeping and far ranging. The demands of security do require that there be many special provisions, I suppose, in the legislation which would not be tolerable elsewhere but which do have to be somehow swallowed because of the very specially sensitive nature of the subject matter. The Opposition is prepared to accept many of these provisions as necessary. Our attitude is not one of cantankerous root and branch hostility to this legislation and all its works. What we are not prepared to accept is this Bill which goes much further, in our suggestion, than it needs to in authorising interferences with or restrictions on personal liberty and which does not go nearly far enough in incorporating within it the kinds of checks and balances which we believe are quite indispensable if security legislation is ever to be acceptable in a democratic society. 
Does the Attorney-General recall that in the recent guidelines issued by the Australian Legal Aid Office it was stated that legal aid would not, as a general rule, be granted in quasi-criminal matters, such as traffic charges and the possession and smoking of cannabis? In view of the concern expressed in the community about drug offences generally, in the light of the serious effects of any kind of drug conviction on matters such as employment and travel, and particularly given the present maximum penalty under Federal legislation of two years' gaol or $2,000 for the possession of small amounts of imported cannabis for personal use, does the Minister really believe that the possession and smoking of cannabis can be characterised as quasi-criminal and not deserving of legal aid? 
-Although this report was certainly prompted by the continuing, unhappy course of events of Aurukun and Mornington Island- events on which my colleagues Senators Cavanagh and Keeffe will speak later in this debate with all the knowledge and feeling that they command on that subject- it ought to be appreciated that the report is much more wide-ranging in its scope and implications than just that. It has implications for the whole course of Commonwealth Government policy generally, throughout the nation and it certainly has implications for Commonwealth Government policy in the whole of Queensland- not just those two communities. 
Before I conclude my remarks, which I do not want to prolong unduly because I commenced them on 23 November when the report was tabled, let me remind the Senate of just what the report contains and indicate what kind of responses to it we hope will be forthcoming from the Government. The first thing the report does is make a quite detailed analysis of section 5 1 (xxvi) of the Constitution, the Commonwealth's power to make laws with respect to people of any race for whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws, a provision which assumed that form as a result of the 1 967 Aboriginal powers referendum. The Committee concludes on this particular subject matter that the doubts which have been thrown up from time to time about the scope and effect of that Constitutional power are, by and large, without any real substance at all. Certainly there should be no thought of any legal inhibition on the Government taking any steps that it considers appropriate to secure genuine self-management for Aborigines and Torres 
Strait Islanders in the Australian States and in particular, of course, Queensland. The second thing that the report does is to make a detailed analysis of the scope and operation of section 5 1 (xxxi) of the Constitution, the guarantee of just terms for compulsory acquisitions of property. Just what kind of obligation this represents is the subject of quite exhaustive commentary in our report. It has been a subject of much confusion, not only among laymen but, it must be conceded, among lawyers, and in our report we tried to unravel that confusion and indicate again that 51 (xxxi) need not amount to any great barrier to effective Commonwealth action in this area. 
The third thing that the report does is to endeavour to make a thorough analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the particular legislation that was referred to us, namely, the Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-Management) Act 1978. It should be apparent from a most cursory reading of our report that we believe the weaknesses in that Act far outstrip its strengths. These weaknesses were revealed most obviously in the way in which the Act was quite denuded of any effective operation with respect to Aurukun and Mornington Island by the Queensland Government taking the simple step of degazetting the status of those communities as reserves under the Queensland legislation. That is not to say that the Act is incapable of amendment to make it a useful - at least supplementary- tool in the Commonwealth armoury. We recommend the kind of amendments which we believe are appropriate. We would certainly be interested to know what the Government response is in respect to those initiatives and we hope that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  can bring himself to make a response to that before the conclusion of this debate. 
The final thing that the report does is to make a number of recommendations as to the course of legislative action which we believe the Commonwealth could, and indeed should, now take to ensure that self-management becomes a reality for those communities in Queensland who want it. There should be no doubt that there are many Aboriginal and Island communities in Queensland who do want this, who do not believe that they are going to get it under the Queensland Government, whether it is under the Local Government Act or anything else. The Aurukun and Mornington Island communities have made their position absolutely clear over the last couple of years, as have the communities of Yarrabah, from whom many of us have recently received a petition from the governing council of that community, from Weipa, from Mosman George and from Kowanyama. We should hear their voices. The Government should hear their voices because it is all too clear that nobody in Queensland is listening. The approach which the Committee has suggested in this respect is summarised in the concluding paragraph 77 of our report. I will quote it in full because it articulates precisely what we believe should happen. The report reads as follows: 
The Committee recommends that the Commonwealth Parliament legislate to ensure that Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders in Queensland are free to manage and control their own affairs. The Committee does not consider that a single, general statute such as the Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-Management) Act 1978, provides the best means of achieving this objective. Instead, the Committee recommends that Parliament enact specific statutes designed to deal with the conditions prevailing in different communities of Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders. The nature and form of any acquisition of property required to re-inforce the self-management scheme, and the type and extent of compensation payable in respect of such acquisition, should then be determined on a case-by-case basis according to the needs of different communities. 
All the elements which are available in that kind of case-by-case approach are set out in the report. We suggest that there is no excuse for the kind of tentative, tiptoeing, deferential attitude which the Government has so far adopted toward what can only be described as the racist bigotry of the present Queensland Government. The Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders people of Queensland are crying out for dignity and respect. It is a dignity and respect which only the Commonwealth Parliament is going to be able to give them. It is only the Commonwealth Parliament upon which they can rely to give them that dignity and respect. I hope that the Minister has been listening. 
-In the course of his remarks in the urgency debate today,  Senator Carrick  repeated a challenge made to me towards the end of the last session to define the difference between bona fide family trusts and those which I would regard as tax dodging arrangements. I am not one to shirk a challenge, least of all one coming from  Senator Carrick.  I am grateful to him for reminding me of it. Let me try to state the position as succinctly as I can and I invite him in turn to honour his own promise made to me on 10 October last year to provide information on the revenue loss that is associated with those trusts that can be more or less unequivocally characterised, whatever other incidental purpose they might serve, as tax avoidance arrangements. 
One class of family trust with which I would have no quarrel is that of testamentary trusts, those which come into operation on a testator's death and are designed simply as a convenient means of administering the estate, in particular and most commonly as a vehicle for the keeping of family property together for the lifetime of the surviving spouse while still allowing the possibility of ultimate and equitable distribution among the testator's children or whoever else he wants to benefit. The kind of trusts that raise serious tax avoidance questions, and those to which I was essentially referring in the remarks which I made last October, are those which are genetically described as inter vivos trusts, in other words, where the trust is created and operates during the settlor 's lifetime. 
There are innumerable functions which these trusts can perform and there are innumerable ways of identifying and classifying them, ways which are thoroughly familiar to lawyers, accountants and the Taxation Office. There are trading trusts, service trusts, unit trusts, fixed trusts, discretionary trusts and so on. The most popular way of setting up a trust these days, particularly in the family context, is to use the flexible discretionary trust. The great advantage here is that the parent employing this device, while still enjoying all the income splitting tax advantages that any trust arrangement givesand to which I will refer again in a momentretains more or less complete control over the trust property and the income which is derived from it. 
No one denies that trust arrangements can serve, quite apart from their taxation implications, various legitimate, commercial and other purposes. For example, for private companies they can be quite essential for certain trading purposes, particularly outside Australia, and for meeting specialist requirements such as performance bonds. Again, unit trusts, it is acknowledged, can be a quite useful mechanism for accumulating capital from a number of small contributors for property investment purposes. I acknowledge that certain trust arrangements and certain circumstances, particularly simple fixed trusts, can be a means for public figures to dissociate themselves from family businesses, either for reasons of propriety or perhaps for reasons of a simple lack of time. The point about every single kind of inter vivos trust arrangement which is used today, and certainly every kind of family trust arrangement, is that, as the law now stands, they can operate and do operate in practice to confer very significant tax advantages on their users. First of all, and most obviously, they enable income splitting which enables high income earners to have their wives or children assessed on part of the primary earner's income at much lower rates of tax. Traditionally they have estate planning and the avoidance of gift and death duties, although obviously this has ceased to be as relevant a consideration as it used to be with the progressive dismantling of taxes of this kind at State and Federal level. Indeed, the dismantling of these kinds of taxes destroys any real rationale that may be claimed for trusts in terms of keeping together family farms and businesses. 
The third most obvious tax advantage of trust arrangements is in the case of the family business situation. It enables the avoidance of company tax. Just how significant these taxation advantages can be is graphically illustrated in the course of an article by Max Suich in the  National Times  in the issue of 19 August last year. The example was as follows: Assume a family of father, mother and three children, with the business having a net income of $40,000 before deducting the proprietor's wages, and then consider the following changes which can be rung upon that scenario. If the business is owned wholly by the father that tax will be $16,080. If the business is owned by the father and mother in equal partnership the tax will be $1 1,520. If the business is owned by a company in which the shares are held on the following basis, the father one-third, the mother one-third and each child one-ninth, and assuming that wages are paid out of $20,000 for the father, and $6,000 for the mother, the tax goes down to $13,707. Lastly, if the business is owned by a discretionary trust and $3,750- to take an example- is distributed during the year to each child, or to a parent for each child, and if the balance is then allocated at the end of the year equally between the father and the mother the tax on that $40,000 net income will be only $6,800. So instead of over 40 per cent of the income being paid in tax as a first possible way of doing things, only 17 per cent is paid. There is a saving of almost $10,000. You would have to be a real mug- perhaps even a socialist mug- not to set up a family trust in those circumstances. It is undoubtedly for these reasons that trust arrangements have been proliferating almost exponentially in recent years- much faster than the number of partnerships and the number of taxable companies, as Taxation Office statistics show. There is no doubt at all that this has been causing quite huge concern to the taxation authorities, if not to the Government itself, as indicated by a memo from the  Deputy  Commissioner in Melbourne dated 7 January 1977, which recently came to light, one passage of which reads as follows: 
The inability to deal with the problem of tax avoidance through the agency of trusts under the existing taxation laws is causing considerable concern in this office. The trust arrangements being entered into at an ever-increasing rate are considered to be a negation of the intention of the law and completely nullify any equity as between individual taxpayers, particularly in regard to businessmen and salary and wage earners. 
There is a great deal more material of this kind, including such statistics as are presently available, which was put on record by the Opposition shadow Treasurer,  Mr Ralph  Willis, in another place in a major speech on tax questions on 1 March this year. What is not yet a matter of public record is any quantification of the loss to revenue associated with these inter vivos trusts. 
It is this information which I am asking  Senator Carrick  to seek out and to communicate to me and to the Parliament. The Opposition's argument is not against trusts or even family trusts as such. Rather it goes to the fact that they can be and are being used for tax minimisation, or to put it more bluntly tax avoidance purposes, in a way that is thoroughly inequitable to the great mass of Australian wage and salary earners. There are a number of ways around the problem. It is too late in the evening to canvass them in any detail. Many of them are set out in the Asprey report. Just to take two of the best known ways through this problem, first of all you could simply subject trusts of all kinds, perhaps with some exceptions which would need to be worked out, to straightforward company-type tax legislation. That is, tax the trust income at 46 per cent and then tax the distributions to the beneficiaries as income in their hands. 
An alternative and quite different way that might be suggested- and was specifically suggested in the Asprey report in the specific context of family trusts- is to tax the income of the minor beneficiaries at a rate which takes account of the parents' income. This could operate, as Asprey suggested, simply by adding the minor's unearned income to that of whichever parent had the higher income, and applying the appropriate marginal tax rate. Those few members of the Labor Parliamentary Party who have for one reason or another in the past made use of trust arrangements- I should interpolate here that certainly the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the other place  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has openly acknowledged that he is one of them and set up a quite limited arrangement which he took the trouble and time to place in detail on the public record in the  National Times  issue of 17 March this year- readily accept that changes in the law of the kind that I have been mentioning are necessary and desirable. That is a very different approach, a very different attitude, from the attitude of the Government members in this Parliament who, as the  National Times  survey printed on 17 March showed, remain coy, almost to the last man and woman amongst them as to whether they have any such arrangement. They remain totally unwilling to concede that the law should be changed in any respect. 
If family trusts are to be defended by the legitimate purposes they can perhaps serve in marginal cases, those who use them should be willing to go on doing so even if the tax advantages now associated with them are stripped away. When those tax advantages are stripped away, as will certainly happen under the next Labor Government, it will be fascinating to see just how many inter vivos trusts stay in existence, and even more fascinating I suggest to see how many new such trusts are then created. I suspect that it is then that the true extent of the humbug that is so often talked in defence of family trusts will be starkly revealed. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Will the Attorney-General provide an extended table relating to cases heard by the High Court in each year from 1973 to 1977 and from 1 January to 23 November 1978, showing in each instance: (a) the name of the case; (b) when the appeal or application for a hearing by the High Court was lodged with the Registrar; (c) the date(s) on which the case was heard; (d) the names of the Justices participating; and (e) the date on which judgment was handed down. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Finance. What payments have been made or expenditure authorised from the Advance to the Minister for Finance this financial year in respect of the purchase and refitting of two Boeing 707 aircraft for executive use? When were such payments made or expenditure authorised? Why was it not possible for this expenditure to be specifically appropriated in Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2)? Why has it not been the subject of a special Appropriation Bill? Finally, how did such expenditure from the Advance satisfy the criteria which have been variously laid down for such expenditure, namely, that it be authorised only in urgent and special circumstances or that it be unforeseen or unforeseeable? 
-All the fulminations of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  all the synthetic, sanctimonious passion that he brings to bear on occasions such as this, cannot disguise the fact that the misuse of Federal funds by the Victorian Government has been a long-running scandalous sore in Australian politics for the last four or five years. Of course it is a proper matter for the Opposition to raise in this Parliament, and to raise as a matter of urgency. Although it may not be a matter of concern to the Federal Government, although it may not be a matter of concern to  Senator Carrick,  the scandalous misuse of Federal funds by the Victorian Government is a matter of deep and acute concern not only to the people of Victoria but also to this Federal Parliament and to the taxpayers of Australia whom we represent. It is the taxpayers money that has been squandered in this way by this misuse, by this misbehaviour of the Victorian Government.  Senator Carrick  has said that the allegations that have been made today have been around for a long time. So they have been around for a long time, and more shame to those in whose power it is to make the allegations no longer applicable. 

 Senator Carrick also said that the allegations made today by  Senator Wriedt  were made under cover of privilege in the coward 's castle of Parliament. What a measure of his ignorance! What a measure of his incompetence to address the Parliament on these topics that he fails to appreciate the truth of this matter. The substance of every allegation  Senator Wriedt  made has been a matter of public newspaper record, most particularly and most obviously in the  Age  and in the  National Times.  Those newspapers deserve credit for an exercise in responsible journalism in producing this information for the benefit of the Australian public, information of which today we remind the Australian public and the Government.  Senator Carrick  said that the allegations are of long standing. Some of them, indeed, are of much more recent standing. Let me remind him of some of the allegations that were made in this Parliament on the subject of the Victorian misuse of Federal funds as recently as three weeks ago. On 7 March the issue was raised in the context of the Victorian misuse of Federal funds provided for rural finance. It was raised, of course, in the context- if  Senator Carrick  has already forgotten it-of the $100,000 loans given to the Beggs-Fraser family through the auspices of the Victorian Rural Finance Commission. Those allegations have been met from Victoria and from the Federal Government ever since that time- three weeks ago- with an absolutely deafening silence. A deafening silence is the Opposition's reward for its responsibility in raising these issues of acute public concern. It is a silence that will not go unnoticed and should not go unnoticed by the Australian public. 
Not the least of the allegations was one that I made. I remind  Senator Carrick  that it was made not only in this Parliament but also immediately afterwards on ABC radio in response to a challenge from one of his brave and intelligent members suggesting that we were unwilling to make these allegations outside the Parliament. To remind  Senator Carrick,  the allegation was that there was a clear prima facie illegality about the dispensation of the $ 100,000 without the signature of the Victorian Treasurer, as seems clearly to be required under section 38 of the Victorian Rural Finance Act. There was a clear manifest illegality, on the face of the legislation. 
A clear prima facie illegality. Perhaps there is an answer to that allegation, but we have not heard it. We have not heard it from  Senator Missen;  we have not heard it today from  Senator Carrick.  Certainly we have not heard it from any of the actors in the Victorian Parliament or the Victorian governmental scene. If there is an answer, let us hear it. Let us be shut up in that way- by truth, by substance, by facts. We will listen to that sort of thing. We will not be shut up by the kind of empty fulminations that we have heard today from  Senator Carrick. 
Today we have added to the debate on this subject by reminding the Parliament and the Australian people of just how long-running and scandalous a sore this question of misuse of Federal funds has been in the best known context of them all- the use by Victoria of Federal funds for land purchase. It is to that particular subject area that I, like  Senator Wriedt,  because of its intrinsic importance to the Australian public and taxpayer, want to devote the body of my remarks today. There is a long story behind the adoption by the Commonwealth and Victorian governments of the scheme under which these land purchases were financed. I am referring, of course, to the land purchases in Sunbury, Pakenham, Melton and a score of other places. Put simply, the position is that the Whitlam Labor Government, throughout its term in office, urged the State governments to adopt its policies on the purchase and development of urban land, policies that were designed to stabilise the price of serviced land at the lowest possible level. The Commonwealth, under Tom Uren's leadership as the relevant Minister, wanted these land programs supervised by statutory authorities called Land Commissions, which would work under strict guidelines. These Land Commissions were established in South Australia and New South Wales. They worked according to their charters- long complex documents which set out in detail the duties and responsibilities of the administering authorities. They produced in those States the serviced land that they were supposed to produce. They produced it without a breath of scandal. 
But the Victorian Government would not have a bar of the proposal for an independent statutory body managing land development. It wanted to keep its sticky fingers in the whole process and to keep its friends in private corporations in business, getting their own generous share of the profits. Any concern that the Victorian Government showed for the public in this exercise was minimal. The Commonwealth and  Mr Tom  Uren, the then Minister for Urban and Regional Development, in their anxiety to spread the benefit of lower priced land to all the States, undoubtedly in retrospect it must be conceded- I acknowledge part of what  Senator Carrick  said in this respect- acceded too much to the demands of  Mr Hamer, Mr Dickie  and  Mr Hunt.  The Commonwealth gave them too much independence and too much freedom to approve schemes which were inherently dubious. 
I will readily concede in retrospect that the Commonwealth went wrong in accepting the bona fides of the Victorian Government. The 
Commonwealth Government and Tom Uren as the responsible Minister did not believe- no one could have believed at the time- that the Victorian Government would indulge in the sort of murky dealings in respect of those funds that we now know took place. Instead of having an independent statutory body, the Victorian Government insisted on what it described as cooperative federalism. In the event the Commonwealth co-operated all right. It has co-operated to the tune of supplying some $40m, as  Senator Wriedt  said, since 1973-74 to Victoria for land development purposes. The form that the Victorian Government co-operation took in return was to feed the profits to its friends. 
What happened in Victoria in regard to land financing was that the Commonwealth Government provided money on the sort of basis which honourable senators opposite have indicated so often that they applaud. It supplied money with very few strings attached. If the grants had been tied, as they had been in other States, there would have been no problems. But they were not tied in that way. The Victorian Government would not allow the money to be tied in that way. In particular, the Victorian Government refused the Commonwealth Government and the responsible Minister, Tom Uren, although he tried often enough and was insulted often enough for his pains in trying to get the relevant control, the independent power to check the valuations of the properties that Victoria wanted to purchase. That, said  Mr Hamer, Mr Dickie, Mr Hunt  and all the rest of them, would have been interference with the internal affairs of the Victorian Government which, as everyone knows, was respectable and reliable. 
We were told that the Hamer Government made things happen. The Hamer Government was the businessman's government. We now know the truth. The people the Victorian Government made it happen for were the Dillons, the Leakes and the rest of the sordid cast who were revealed in all their squalid splendour and all their dilapidation in terms of the ethics they brought to bear in this transaction by the clear-cut finding of the Gowans land deals inquiry. The schemes that we have been talking about and which were dealt with in the substance of  Senator Wriedt  's speech were adopted. Perhaps they would have worked under an honest government. No one was to know that that appellation or description just could not be applied to the Victorian Liberals, that they were to misuse and to waste Commonwealth funds which could have been used and should have been used to lower land prices and to provide better services for the people of Melbourne and the outlying urban areas. 
I will bring the matter up to date just one step further. The latest development in this whole affair, which  Senator Wriedt  mentioned just in passing in his speech, is one of really quite splendid irony. It is this: As a result of a decision of the Victorian Supreme Court on 1 March this yearjust four weeks ago- the whole legal basis on which the State of Victoria has been conducting its land purchase operations with federal money has been shown to be thoroughly unsound and legally shonky. The chickens have come home to roost for the Victorian Government. There remains a gigantic financial and administrative mess now to be cleaned up. Of course, the penalty for this will be paid once again both by the people of Victoria and the taxpayers of Australia who are bearing the primary burden of this misallocation, mis-use and administrative chaos of the federal funds which are the subject matter of this debate today. 
I presume that  Senator Carrick  would not have heard of the case to which I am referring. It is that of Australasian Realty Corporation v. the Housing Commission of Victoria and the Keilor City Council. The case, decided by  Mr Justice  Marks, concerned 67 acres of land, most of it owned by the Housing Commission of Victoria and the rest owned by the Keilor City Council, which the Housing Commission of Victoria wanted to develop as a community centre with schools, a hotel, parkland and a shopping centre. The Australasian Realty Corporation is owned by another well-known property developer,  Mr Alan  Bond. The Corporation happened to own quite a substantial parcel of land nearby. It protested against the development permit being granted to the Housing Commission in respect of the Housing Commission's land claiming that, as a matter of law, the Commission had acted beyond its legal powers in seeking and obtaining permits on behalf of the Victorian body, the Urban Land Council. 
The argument which, in short, was upheld by  Mr Justice  Marks of the Supreme Court of Victoria and the decision of the Court was that the Housing Commission was acting illegally in purchasing and arranging for the servicing of this land with Commonwealth funds because it was not acting for purposes set down in the Victorian Housing Commission Act. Rather, it was acting pursuant to a joint Federal-State scheme being administered by the Urban Land Council. The whole shoddy apparatus that was negotiated and clamoured for by the Victorian Government and established in a way that allowed the Commonwealth nothing like the same control over the use of federal funds for housing and land purchases as it had in respect of the other States that participated in the scheme, has now come tumbling down. This has meant a massive cost burden. It has been an enormously expensive case. That cost burden has been borne once again by the taxpayers of Australia. I understand that the costs are being paid out of the funds supplied to the Victorian Urban Land Council. 
More important than the immediate cost burden are the longer term implications of this decision.  Mr Hamer  is in the unhappy position of having two alternatives. He can wind up what is left of the whole shoddy Urban Land Council apparatus that he insisted upon in 1973-74. In doing so he will finally breach faith with all those Victorians who had some residual confidence that the Victorian Government believed in its protestations about the desirability of supplying cheap serviced urban land and keeping prices down. The suggestions are that this is exactly what the Victorian Government will do. It will wind up the apparatus. However, there is a small snag which the Victorian Government appreciates confronts it in this respect. The snag is that if the Victorian Government winds up the scheme, it will have to pay back immediately the whole of the 30-year federal loans on which this program so far has been funded.  Mr Hamer  has not yet told us, the Victorian taxpayers or the Victorian voters for that matter, how his Treasury proposes to sustain that burden. 
The only other course open to  Mr Hamer,  given that the half-hearted little piece of remedial legislation that he tried to introduce last year will not, I am advised and believe, solve the problem, is for him to go all the way back to exactly the kind of scheme for urban land development which the Whitlam Labor Government endeavoured with all the will and energy in the world to introduce. It insisted upon such a scheme unsuccessfully in the case of Victoria in 1974. Of course, for  Mr Hamer  to accept this model which he has rejected with so much noise and antagonism in years gone by would be for him to concede that the Whitlam Government was vindicated in its whole approach to urban land policy. It would be to concede further what has been obvious to every independent observer for the last four years, that is, that the administration of federal funds in this area by the Victorian Government has been until now a thoroughly disreputable shambles. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) What has been the cost to the Commonwealth of extradition proceedings in foreign countries in each year from 1973 to 1977. 
What is the nature of the alleged crimes in respect of which the proceedings have been taken. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Finance, concerns the Government's purchase of two Boeing 707 aircraft for VIP use, on which I asked a question earlier this week. Does the money to be recouped in the forthcoming Appropriation Bills represent the whole of the expenditure that so far has been authorised from the Advance to the Minister for Finance in relation to the purchase, equipping and operations of the two aircraft, or is there any expenditure of this kind which will remain buried in the Advance and which will not be so recouped in Appropriation Bills (No. 3) and (No. 4)? Is it proposed to authorise any further expenditure from the Advance for these purposes in the period after Appropriation Bills (No. 3) and (No. 4) are brought down but before the end of the financial year? 
It is a matter of some consequence when the Senate 's best known and longest established major committee changes the guidelines within which it has operated for the last 47 years. Indeed, it is a measure of just how well those guidelines have served the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, and through it this Parliament, that it is only now, nearly half a century after the Committee's founding that it has been found necessary and desirable to make certain modifications in those principles. Certainly it has not been without a good deal of thought that the Committee has adopted the changes which are now reported to the Senate. They have been made not as a matter of passing whim or fancy but because the Committee has believed that it is necessary and desirable that our principles or criteria of operation should reflect a number of recent and quite substantial changes in administrative law and practice which have, as  Senator Missen  said, quite significantly affected the way we go about our task of scrutinising delegated legislation on behalf of the Parliament. 
There are in fact three significant changes of language in the principles of the Committee which are recommended in this report. The first of them is to change the description of what it is the Committee scrutinises from 'regulations and ordinances' to the more general description of delegated legislation'. As  Senator Missen  said, this change simply reflects what has been for very many years the reality. The Committee has not confined its attention to regulations and ordinances properly so-called but has dealt with all executive instruments of a legislative character, or at least with those of them which are subject to parliamentary disallowance or disapproval. In this extended class, for example, are such things as by-laws made under the Telecommunications Act, the Postal Services Act and the Australian National Railways Act, rules of court made under the various bits of legislation establishing the different arms of the federal judiciary, and also certain ministerial orders of a legislative character. Although it might be a matter of some nicety to determine in a particular case whether a particular instrument is of a legislative character, particularly when one is talking about ministerial orders, I do not imagine that there will be any dissent from the proposition that the committee, on behalf of the Parliament, ought to be looking at this whole wider range of statutory instruments to which I have referred. 
The second change in language that is contained in our report relates to criterion or principle (c) which the Committee has applied. The original formulation of this criterion is that the regulations and ordinances in question do not unduly make the rights and liberties of citizens dependent upon administrative rather than upon judicial decisions. The proposed new criterion (c) is that delegated legislation does not unduly make the rights and liberties of citizens dependent upon administrative decisions which are not subject to review of their merits by a judicial or other independent tribunal. This reflects more than anything else the fundamental changes in administrative law which have come about in recent years as a result of the energies of both the Whitlam Government and its successors in this area. 
When the Committee was first established back in the early 1930s, and indeed for many years thereafter, there was just no systematic machinery for citizens to turn to when they were aggrieved by the exercise of an administrative discretion. There was no Administrative Appeals Tribunal; there was no network of specialist tribunals in the social security area or anywhere else. The only remedy was the courts, either through the uncertain and complex route of the prerogative writs in situations when the Administrator had acted either beyond or in excess of his jurisdiction or in breach of the rules of natural justice, or through specific court remedies created by the particular enabling legislation. Given that situation, the Committee as a result was always anxious, in years gone by, to ensure that whenever the rights and liberties of the subject were in any significant way affected by administrative decisions there was a clear line of judicial redress, or at least a requirement in the delegated legislation that the decision in question be based, so far as possible, on an objectively ascertainable and, therefore, testable matter of fact rather than simply on matters of administrative opinion. 
Of course, now the situation has changed quite rapidly, not only with the creation of specialist tribunals such as the Social Security Appeals Tribunals, for one, but also with the enactment of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 and the supporting array of legislation, in particular the Ombudsman Act 1976 and the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act of 1 977, which, at least when they all come into full operation, will create a situation of real revolution in our administrative law. Perhaps I should interpolate at this point that it is certainly a matter of concern to me- I think that goes for the other members of the Committee- that the jurisidiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal still remains extremely limited and narrow in scope. Further, it remains a matter of acute concern that the Administrative Decision (Judicial Review) Act has not yet been proclaimed into operation. One recognises the various administrative difficulties that have been associated with getting this machinery into full swing. One recognises also the work that the Administrative Review Council has been doing on a part-time basis over many months to resolve those difficulties. Nonetheless, it is still, I think, fair to say that the Government is running out of plausible excuses in this respect and it can expect to come in for some fairly heavy criticism if significant developments do not start happening within the next two to three months. 
For present purposes the point remains that significant changes have occurred already, and will continue to occur, in this area. Those changes have altered the focus of the Committee's concern- and this Parliament's concern, one would hope- away from simply the question of the availability of court remedies towards a situation where what really matters is that there is available not just necessarily a court mechanism but also some mechanism, not necessarily of a court kind, as I say, but quite possibly of an administrative review kind or a quasi-judicial kind, which will ensure that there is some form of review, some avenue of redress, which an aggrieved citizen can pursue. This change in focus is now reflected in the language that we propose to the Senate tonight, where the emphasis is not simply on the availability of judicial remedies but the availability of some avenue of review of decisions on their merits by either a judicial or some other independent tribunal. 
The third and last of the changes contained in this report concerns the operation of criterion or principle (d) applied by the Committee which, in its original form, which has prevailed for the last nearly half a century, has been expressed as follows: That the legislation is concerned with administrative detail and does not amount to substantive legislation which should be a matter for parliamentary enactment. It is now proposed to change that so that the criterion simply reads that it does not contain matter more appropriate for parliamentary enactment. As  Senator Missen  says, and as is spelt out in the report, for many years there has been real difficulty in giving criterion (d) literal application. As the business of government has become more and more complex and extensive, so too has it been necessary, if the system is to work at all, for more and more matters to be dealt with only in outline in statute, with a great deal, including much of really substantial importance, being left to delegated legislation. 
This question has arisen particularly in the context of territorial ordinances. In 1976, in the 55th report to this Parliament of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordiances, the Committee grasped the nettle, as it thought, of territorial ordinances and decided that this fourth criterion should not be applied at all in respect of Australian Capital Territory ordinances, the notion being, in other words, that the Committee would no longer scrutinise ordinances by reference to the criterion of whether they contained substantive material rather than simply matters of detail and as a result ought to be the subject of parliamentary enactment. This 1976 decision was intended to reflect, in one respect, the obvious reality that had been the case for many years past- that Australian Capital Territory ordinances did not pretend by and large to be anything else but pieces of substantial legislation, the territorial equivalent in fact of State legislation. Also, that decision reflected to some extent, as  Senator Missen  said, the feeling that I think the Committee then certainly had that the Australian Capital Territory, as is the case with the Northern Territory, was well on the way to real self-government; that the time was not far distant when there would be a legislative assembly with not just advisory functions but real legislative functions and that it would, as a result, be less and less proper for Parliament to interfere in any way with the legislative processes in those territories. 
I think it is fair to say that ever since 1976 there has continued to be a good deal of ambiguity in the way that this decision has operated  and  there has been a good deal of unease among Committee members about the way that this decision has been working out. There has often been a feeling in the Committee, I discern, that really important subject matters of territorial ordinances, matters of sensitivity, difficulty or real significance, ought to be subject to proper debate and indeed enactment by a properly elected legislative body. As  Senator Missen  also said, that feeling was further reinforced undoubtedly by the result of the recent referendum in the Australian Capital Territory. It indicated that the Australian Capital Territory voters were not especially anxious to develop full local selfgovernment and were happy to go on being governed, for better or for worse, by the Commonwealth Government and Parliament. In the result, the Committee feels that it is appropriate that we should rewrite principle (d) and reserve a general power to scrutinise delegated legislation in general and Australian Capital Territory ordinances in particular, to determine whether under ail the circumstances that piece of delegated legislation or that ordinance ought not to be more appropriately dealt with by parliamentary enactment. 
In case there is any misunderstanding about this- I appreciate that there may be some sensitivity on the subject- I shall reiterate points which are clearly set out in the report and to which  Senator Missen  pointed. It is certainly not our intention that there should be a regular stream of domestic Territory matters coming before this Parliament in the form of ordinary Bills. God forbid that we should have a succession of Australian Capital Territory abortion debates facing us into the hereafter. Equally, it is not our intention as a Committee to ignore from now on the existence of either the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly or, for that matter, the Parliament's own Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory in making the recommendation to the Parliament on what is or is not appropriate for direct parliamentary attention. Paragraph 9 of the report indicates very clearly the Committee's intention, whenever it might be minded to recommend disallowance to the Parliament on the ground that the subject matter of the ordinance is more appropriate for enactment, as a matter of course to consult both the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly and the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. 
It will be necessary, in applying this principle, to evolve over time detailed criteria by which it is to operate, just as it has been necessary over the years to evolve more detailed criteria for the operation of the existing clauses. I simply trust that as the Committee goes about this task with all the excellent and professional help we get from our secretary, Harry Evans, and our independent legal adviser, Brian Doyle, we will continue to enjoy the confidence of the Senate in the way that the Committee has for so many years past. On that basis I commend the report to the Senate. 
My question concerns the High Court building in Canberra. It is directed to whoever feels keener to answer it, either the Attorney-General or  Senator Webster  as the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory and the Minister for Housing and Construction. Is it the case that one of the two great windows in the new High Court building will contain a portrayal of the British Coat of Arms? What is the reason for this latest manifestation of the colonial cringe, particularly as there are no longer any federal appeals to the Privy Council? At whose instigation was the decision made to portray the British Coat of Arms in this way? Does it have the support of all or even a majority of the High Court judges? Does it have the support of this Government? 
-The definition of 'subversion' is perhaps one of the more difficult tasks that  Mr Justice  Hope had. I understand and believe that it gave him more difficulty than most of his other tasks put together. Certainly it is the loosest and wooliest of all the different concepts that make up the over-arching concept of security with which this Bill is concerned. I certainly approve- I think the Opposition as a whole approves- of the attempt which has been made in this Bill to give at least some statutory definition to the concept of subversion, and security as a whole, which was lacking in the previous legislation. Indeed, I go further and say that I have no objections to the general structure of that definition of subversion as it appears in the Bill where it is left quite openended as far as foreign initiated action is concerned. Some attempt has been made to detail the concept of subversion so far as domestically originated action is concerned. 
In  Mr Justice  Hope's recommendations with respect to the domestic aspects of subversion, without spelling them out here in detail, it was clear that the concept of force or violence as an element in the notion of subversion- the concept of overthrowing the constitutional government, of unlawfulness in the activity involved or contemplated by the persons in question- was the basic flavour that emerges from his definition. It is certainly regrettable that the definition of subversion, as it appears in the Bill before us, reaches much more widely than the explicit recommendations on page 41 of the first volume of the fourth report of  Mr Justice  Hope. The subject matter of our second and third amendments, which  Senator Button  foreshadowed, goes directly to the extension of the definition beyond that which  Mr Justice  Hope recommended. I wish to specifically concentrate my remarks on the first amendment, as I understand that technically we are debating only the first of the amendments relating to clause 5. Our first amendment goes to something which  Mr Justice  Hope did, in fact, recommend and which has been picked up unaltered in the Bill and that is the use of the expression 'ultimately' which appears in clause 5(1) (a). Included in the definition of 'subversion ' are: 
activities that involve, will involve or lead to, or are intended or likely ultimately to involve or lead to, the use of force or violence or other unlawful acts . . . 
Now the word 'ultimately ' was not subject to any extended argument or analysis by  Mr Justice  Hope, and nor has any been offered during the second reading speech or anywhere else in the course of this debate. The point that I wish to make is that the word 'ultimately' really has quite a lot of significance in this clause. It ought to be subjected to very close scrutiny in this respect by the Senate. The basic question that is in issue by the use of a word such as this is: How close a nexus must there be between rhetoric and action so far as the group, potentially subject to surveillance under this legislation, is concerned. The Opposition suggests that it is sufficient- it ought to be sufficient so far as the Government and the Organization are concerned- if the use of force or violence and so on is intended or likely; in other words, if it is likely within the reasonably foreseeable future or within some practically realistic time span. In our view what ought to matter is that there be- to put it yet another way- some reasonable apprehension that there will in fact be violence or this kind of activity within some realistically foreseeable future. 
The point that I am making is this: If the word ultimately' stays in the Bill then we have caught up as potentially subversive- therefore subject to all the powers that are vested in the Organisation by this Act- all those rather pathetic little splinter groups particularly of the far Left which engage in most cases more out of a sense of duty rather than any real belief in fuzzy, millenarian rhetoric about the ultimate revolution. It seems to me highly undesirable that groups of this kind should be routinely brought within the scope of the legislation in the way in which they are when a word like 'ultimately' appears. One ought to examine a little more closely the types of groups which would be caught up by the definition as it stands, but which in my suggestion arguably ought not to be if a more narrow and precise definition were applied here, such that there had to be some reasonable nexus between the kind of rhetoric engaged in by the group and its actual, likely contribution to domestic violence. I make this point particularly in the light of the sorts of contributions we had from  Senator Lewis  and others of his kind during the second reading debate in which he asserted, as a matter of obvious and uncontested reality, that revolutionary groups which were scattered around the Australian political landscape were quite properly the subject matter of Australian Security Intelligence Organization surveillance. The particular revolutionary groups  Mr Justice  Hope adverted to quite specifically in his report as having in their political platforms quite explicit revolutionary aspirations, were the Communist Party, the Socialist Party of Australia and the Communist Party of Australia Marxist-Leninist. It is appropriate to spend a moment or two on each of those. 

 Mr Justice Hope, in relation to the Communist Party, stated at page 47 of Volume I of the fourth report that the revolutionary objective of that party, as most recently reaffirmed in 1972 in the 23rd National Congress, had been expressed in its constitution the following terms: 
The Communist Party of Australia (CPA) is a Marxist party which is a voluntary union of people who actively work to achieve a revolutionary transformation of Australia and the establishment of a socialist, independent Australian republic. 
However, the point about the CPA, for anyone who has any kind of realistic grasp of the political landscape of the Australian Left, is that it is a group with only about 2,500 members nationally, on the recent best estimates. I do not know whether they are as good as  Mr Justice  Woodward's recent best estimates but they are the ones usually accepted. It is the kind of organisation which in my view ought not, whatever it says in its platform, to attract the kind of scrutiny to which it would inevitably be subject if the present definition of 'subversion' remained. Perhaps the simplest way of setting out the points that I want to make about the CPA is to quote from the relevant passage of a book which probably will be the subject of a good deal of reference in this debate. I refer to Richard Hall's recent book  The Secret State  in which at page 1 1 1 he has this to say: 
The CPA has operated independently of the Soviet and China since the early sixties. It has been more of a radical group than a political party, operating on the fringe of society in search of causes and seeking to attract recruits on the basis of its support for various issues- aboriginal land rights, green bans, gay lib, women's affairs, etc. There is not the faintest suggestion that it is likely to resort to planned violence, and even if its leaders succumbed to some violent fantasy they would find their membership far behind. Strikes, demonstrations, rallies and sit-ins are their right as free Australians- CPA members and leaders find rhetoric about the streets comforting in that it convinces them that there is a real prospect that history will give them victory. (Something similar motivates a street evangelist.) But the reality is that whenever there have been large crowds in the streets in Australia, for example over Vietnam or over the events of November 1975, it has been not because of the CPA or any of the Communist Parties, but because of the Labor Party and the coming together of small, largely informal groups. There is simply no reason to infiltrate the CPA with ASIO or Special Branch spies: if there were an attempt to turn the CPA into a party of violence it would split the party sufficiently to alert the security forces. 
I adopt that kind of analysis. I turn now to the position of the Socialist Party of Australia- the pro-Soviet rump group- which is presently believed to have only around 350 members and in respect of which Richard Hall, at the same page, pertinently and accurately has this to say: 
The SPA is a party with a largely aging membership who have chosen to stay loyal to the Russian homeland. They very clearly see the CPA's street dreams as 'adventurist', to use the marxist jargon. There is currently no rational evidence to suggest that the SPA is in any position to violently overthrow the constitution or that any of its members seriously advocate that violent overthrow. They should be left alone. 
Again, that is a realistic assessment of that situation. Obviously, I carry no brief for the SPA, as a political party, but I believe that that is a realistic assessment of its revolutionary capabilities, notwithstanding the rather more extravagant rhetoric that is quoted in respect of its constitution by  Mr Justice  Hope. 
Finally, the third body that attracts  Mr Justice  Hope's explicit attention, at page 48 of the report in question, is the CPA(M/L), the China-line communist party which recently, of course, found itself split into two rather bitterly-opposed factions, with its barely 1,000 members divided between those who pledge undying loyalty to the Gang of Four and the Cultural Revolution and those- the larger group- who support the current more pragmatically-inclined Chinese leadership. Again.with respect to the CPA(M/L), it is appropriate for the Senate to consider and take seriously the analysis by Richard Hall, who wrote: 
The third party, the CPA(M/L) is arguably a case for surveillance, but only arguably. Certainly during the Vietnam war some alleged Maoists, as a matter of principle, tried to turn demonstrations into violent affairs which, after all, some police acting as agents provocateur also tried. There was some minor damage to American companies' property (and, ofcourse, there was always the spectre of the training ground in the Dandenongs replete with stolen gelignite). There are continued links with that shadowy organisation, the WorkerStudent Alliance in SA which has been involved with some violence in factory situations and has used language glorifying violence. But even when those arguments are put as of today - 
He was writing in 1 978 - the CPA(M/L) cannot be said to be anything other than an insignificant group on the margin of Australian society. One suspects the most likely prospect of violence is some Maoist party members beating up their CPA rivals in the Builders' Labours' Federation, but that is a matter for ordinary police measures. Certainly Chinese foreign policy in the post-Mao period would hardly encourage wild schemes of revolution in Australia. 
Obviously we can debate the merits or otherwise of these far Left splinter groups that are scattered around the landscape at the moment but the point I wish to make is simply that the use of words such as 'ultimately' in this definition does encourage the kind of atmosphere, indeed a legal state of affairs, whereby ASIO is fully reinforced in any latent inclination that it might have to deploy all its resources- I think quite unjustifiably- against these groups. 
The basic problem with the use of the word ultimately' in this definition- and why we want it out- is that it confuses a commitment to ideology with a commitment to action. I take the view that in a free society the proper criteria for security surveillance or investigation should start not with ideas but with the question of violence, the question of action and violent action at that. The security service would, in my view, certainly be justified in the surveillance of an organisation if it, or anyone acting under its influence, had engaged in violent action or there were a reasonable apprehension that it would so act, but the word 'ultimately' as it appears in the definition does not express that sort of concept anything like explicitly enough. It leaves it, as my colleague  Senator Button  says, too open, too vague, too possibly replete with the opportunity to be misused against groups which do not deserve that kind of infiltration and attention. It should, in our view and certainly in my view, come out. 
-Perhaps, like my colleague,  Senator Tate,  I can behave not like a lawyer and endeavour to simplify rather than to complexify the debate. I urge the Senate before it votes upon this matter to reconsider the fundamental issue of the amendment. We are not talking here about the responsibility, the duty or the power of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation simply to keep itself informed, to keep its eyes and ears open, to monitor in a general way the political and social developments in the community and to keep track in a general way of what various organisations with revolutionary aspirations might be saying or doing. We are talking about a definition of 'subversion' which, if satisfied, will bring into play the operation of some quite extraordinary, far-reaching and very dangerous powers; powers to tap telephones, install listening devices, open mail, intercept telegrams and enter and search premises. They are the powers we are talking about. That is why it is crucially important to keep the definition of 'subversion' as narrow as is reasonably possible in all the circumstances given the objectives which the legislation is trying to achieve. 
Bearing in mind that basic consideration, we ought to distinguish between three levels of situation. Let us distinguish between them in a way in which the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in his earlier reply did not. We should in the first place recognise what is happening here and now. If what is happening here and now can satisfy the definitions in the Act, fair enough, the surveillance operations should apply. The second level concerns what is likely to happen in the reasonably foreseeable future. The Opposition, with some reservations, would say that that situation is a reasonable one in which the powers should be available to the Organisation. But there is a third level of situation which goes beyond even that. This relates to what may ultimately happen in the unforeseeably distant future. All the Opposition is saying in the amendment is that the last category of situation ought to be severed from the definition. These powers, we concede, albeit reluctantly, ought to be available where what is happening now is subversive in the language of the Act. 
We go so far as to say that these powers also ought to be available if something is likely to happen in the reasonably foreseeable future. What we are alarmed about when we consider the range of powers that attach to the application of the definition of subversion is that this kind of remote, unforeseeable and extremely distant contingency will set those powers in operation. We consider, from the kind of civil libertarian perspective that we hope the Government is adopting in this Bill, that those powers should not be vested in the Organisation, particularly given the appalling track record of officers of the Organisation for any kind of intelligent prophecy about or analysis of the nature of existing organisations, let alone what they are likely to do in the unforeseeably distant future. 
-The provisions of clause 5(1) (b) extend the definition of 'subversion' even further than those we have been debating for the last hour and a half. It extends the definition in a very unattractive way- indeed, in a way that was not recommended in the Hope report. That reason, if no other, should give the Senate very great cause to pause before adopting the sub-clause in its present terms. Paragraph (b) is, in fact, a double-barrelled proposition. The first part treats subversion as: activities directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering with the performance by the Defence Force of its functions. 
The second barrel states that the activities involve: the carrying out of other activities by or for the Commonwealth for the purposes of security or the defence of the Commonwealth. 
It is the Opposition's view that both those parts of the paragraph are objectionably wide and vague in scope and will bring within the ambit of the Bill a range of activities, many of which might be quite startling to contemplate. Let me deal briefly with the first of them. The paragraph states: activities directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering with the performance by the Defence Force of its functions- 
Those words 'obstructing, hindering or interfering' occur quite regularly throughout the statute books dealing with criminal law, industrial law and in legislation like the Atomic Energy Act. They are words of potentially enormous scope. They can extend to any form of activity, communication or proselytisation of a viewpoint which could be construed as amounting to a hin- activity. It would extend, in my submission, to activity which simply takes the form which, it might be thought, would reduce the morale of a defence organisation by pointing to conspicuous deficiencies in its organisation, structure and the way it is administered. 
I would go so far as to say that if this provision is to be given its face value,  Senator Hamer  's speech in this chamber just a couple of weeks ago, in which he revealed in an extremely lucid and penetrating way just what a ramshackle structure Australia's Defence Force has and that in a way that must have given considerable comfort to those people, perhaps overseas, who are interested in hearing such an analysis and in taking such a viewpoint- is that kind of attack on the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  on the Army, on the Defence Force, which represents a paradigm of subversion. 
Similarly within the realm of the potential application of this clause would be the activities of demonstrators or picketers outside recruiting offices nowadays or, obviously, at a time of Australian participation in some conflict such as the Vietnam war. Such activity would visibly and obviously be directed at dissuading people from joining the defence forces and, as such, would amount clearly to an obstruction of, a hindrance to or an interference with the Army, Navy and Air Force in the pursuance of their respective functions as these terms have been defined and applied over the years, and as they appear in other legislation. 
So too- and this is a point that perhaps  Senator Harradine,  given his earlier contribution will bear in mind particularly- it seems to the Opposition that this part of paragraph (b) has a potentially enormous application insofar as the trade unions of this country are concerned. All kinds of industrial actions, for example, the withdrawal of workers' services in the supply or distribution of goods, might take the form, or be perceived as taking the form, of interfering with the efficient conduct by the defence forces of their operations. A simple strike which might result in delaying the supply of spare parts to a naval or army base could, in the view of the Opposition, be construed as amounting to just that kind of hindrance or obstruction to or interference with the Army that potentially would subject that union to all of the surveillance apparatus that is envisaged in this Bill. 
There is no doubt that all of the unions which are affiliated with the Australian Council of Trade Unions have at one time or another engaged, for good industrial motives, in actions which could be regarded as satisfying the literal and obvious definition that is contained in this particular provision. That alone should give us pause, and lend point to the conclusion of the Opposition that the scope of this provision must be limited in some way. We suggest that that should be done by confining it to activities which obstruct, hinder or interfere but which are in themselves unlawful activities- and God knows there is now enough legislation scattered upon the statute books in various contexts, enough common law rules have been devised, to make unlawful most forms of activity that could possibly be construed as obstructing or hindering the Army, but at least that particular safeguard should exist. 
A further point relates to the second half of paragraph (b), which is concerned with the carrying out of other activities by or for the Commonwealth for the purposes of the security or defence of the Commonwealth; in other words, hindering, obstructing or interfering with the carrying out of any other activities for the purposes of security. That proposition has only to be stated for one to appreciate its potential width. There can be very little doubt that this is one of the several provisions of this Bill which are, among other potential applications, aimed quite explicitly and directly at those organisations in the community which have devoted themselves to what they regard as the good democratic cause of exposing the activities, as they presently operate and have operated in the past, of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. 
I refer in particular to organisations such as that of  Mrs Joan  Coxsedge, perhaps the most conspicuous of the organisations working in this area, in its campaign against political police. There is no doubt whatsoever that the explicit language of this part of paragraph (b) would, on its face, enable the Government to employ the full range of the apparatus created by the Bill to operate against that organisation, or indeed against anyone of a like viewpoint. This provision would treat such activity as subversion and expose it to all the apparatus and listening devices, telephones taps and interception of mail that this Bill is about. 
What I am saying, and let it be understood, is that there may indeed be a case for penalising explicitly certain kinds of activity which do amount to a direct harassment of the organisation in the proper exercise of its functions. If that kind of activity does create serious operational difficulties for the organisations in question, there may be a case- as indeed we are prepared to concede elsewhere in this Bill- for penalising explicitly certain activities of that direct and immediate kind. What we are most cautious about accepting the propriety of is the notion that activity which is simply aimed at communicating to the public at large what are perceived to be deficiencies and undemocratic qualities in the organisation in question, that that kind of proselytising activity- which in our view would come squarely within the terms of paragraph (b)- would be counted subversive and brings into operation all of the apparatus that this Bill is about. 
We suggest that that kind of activity, which is aimed at exposing, for better or for worse, the activities of security organisations, should be treated as subversive only when it is itself, by virtue of some explicit statute or common law rule that might be applicable to it, unlawful. It should not be enough, to bring this legislation into play, that there is simply activity directed at exposing or drawing attention to, or hindering in that very indirect way, the security activities of the Commonwealth. So, in respect of both these legs of paragraph (b) we would argue that there is a very strong case for reducing their operation. They are much wider in their text than anything that  Mr Justice  Hope himself recommended. We would argue that the appropriate way in which to limit their operations is to preface them with the simple word 'unlawful', which would obviously confine their scope to biting upon activities which are the subject of penal or other sanctions in other legislation, or indeed elsewhere in this Bill. 
I take the matter no further at this stage than to ask the Attorney-General a question. Under what circumstances are acting directors-general appointed? Is an acting director-general appointed whenever the Director-General is, outside the country, ill, or indisposed for some period? Does the concept of acting directorgeneral come into play only on the death, retirement or dismissal of the actual DirectorGeneral? The answer might colour the 
Opposition's attitude to this amendment to some small extent. 
Has the Attorney-General seen the speech of his colleague,  Mr Ellicott,  to the International Year of the Child Conference in Canberra on 17 March in which  Mr Ellicott  drew attention to the desirable protections to the legal rights of children which would be accomplished if the Criminal Investigation Bill were to be enacted? Is the Minister embarrassed by these continued laudatory public references by  Mr Ellicott  to this Bill, which was, of course, introduced by  Mr Ellicott  two years ago and which has since, like the Human Rights Commission Bill and so much else, disappeared subsequently completely from sight? When will the Criminal Investigation Bill and the Human Rights Commission Bill be reintroduced into this Parliament? 
I second  Senator Missen  's motion and urge the Senate to take very seriously the substance of the Committee's report and the points that  Senator Missen  has made. Despite the various explanations that have been given by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  in the statement he has put down today, two solemn ministerial  undertakings have been outstanding since 1975, one such undertaking has been outstanding since 1976, and two such undertakings have been outstanding since 1977. Two undertakings are four years old, one is three years old and a further two are two years old. In respect of the longest outstanding of them all- the Australian Capital Territory Motor Traffic Ordinance- it is true that a discussion of the legal problems in relation to that Ordinance has taken a new turn in the last few months and the Committee no longer is pressing for its originally suggested amendments. However, it took fully3 years, from April 1975 to October 1978, to get even a coherent answer from the Attorney-General's Department as to why the originally accepted amendments were now unacceptable. I suggest that to treat the Committee and the Parliament in this fashion is to treat them with nothing short of contempt. 
In respect of the other four outstanding matters, no plausible justification has been advanced by the Minister for these amendments taking so long to plod their weary way into effect. It is understandable, the Committee readily acknowledges, that technical or drafting difficulties may arise in the implementation of an undertaking which may have the effect of delaying the implementation, perhaps for a matter of some months. But we are not talking about delays of some months; we are talking about undertakings which have not been implemented for years. The Opposition is concerned about the failure of various Ministers and departments to implement their undertakings. It believes that the Senate as a whole ought to be equally concerned. 
I reiterate the warning given in very deliberate terms by  Senator Missen  on behalf of the Committee. If delays of this order continue, the Committee will have no alternative but to decline to accept ministerial undertakings which are unable to be carried out before the time for disallowance has passed. To take this step would be to take a drastic step, one that undoubtedly would cause the Executive a great deal of inconvenience, but such a step is inevitable unless Ministers and departments take seriously the warning which I hope the Senate will administer by passing this motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-I support the proposed amendment that has been circulated by  Senator Button  on behalf of the Opposition and oppose the amendment that has been moved by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  It is our view that this clause should contain no reference to hostility or hatred being promoted between different groups in the Australian community as being one of the criteria of subversion, this enabling the various powers contained in this legislation to be exercised. The reason again is simply that this kind of language is dangerously wide. It opens up the definition of subversion in such a way that it can be directed against groups and individuals in the community who, in our view anyway, should not be characterised as subversive. Let me again give some illustrations of the kind of situations which could well be caught up by this clause. Again I ask the Attorney-General- I feel rather forlornly in the light of his previous track record on these sorts of questions- to comment on the hypothetical or real situations which I have mentioned and to indicate whether they would be caught up by the definition. 
In asking him so to indicate I am not asking him to give a legal opinion in the way that is usually relied upon in this chamber as a ground for not answering questions. I am not asking him to give a legal opinion in the sense of anticipating what the courts might be tempted to do if they were confronted with this problem because the reality of the matter is that the courts are highly unlikely ever to be confronted with having to apply these definitions. The person who will be applying these definitions is primarily none other than the Attorney-General himself in the exercise of his powers, in conjunction with the Director-General, under this legislation- in particular, his powers to issue warrants for electronic surveillance, search and seizure and so on of people who can be characterised as subversive according to these definitions. Under those circumstances, as with the other matter raised by  Senator Sibraa  last night, it seems to me and to the Opposition that it is highly pertinent to demand, to put it impolitely, or to request, to put it more politely, the Attorney-General to give us a response about these sorts of situations. 
Let me instance just three or four sorts of situations which in my view and in the view of the Opposition could well be caught up by this clause in the way in which it is drafted at the moment. I take for a start the kind of political illustration that must be all too familiar to us all. I refer to the attitude of hostility and bitterness which was at its height in the immediate aftermath of 1 1 November 1975 and which, of course, has continued to some extent ever since but which was particularly conspicuous as a phenomenon in the Australian political scene at that time, so much so that the then Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott,  went so far as to say in this Parliament that he believed that things that  Mr Whitlam  had said on the steps of Parliament House in the emotional atmosphere of 1 1 November were indeed such as to amount to seditious libel. Given those sorts of passions, given those sorts of tensions and given the speeches and statements by all sorts of people right across the political spectrum that could surely be described as going to promote hatred or bitterness of a deep and intense kind between different political groups in the Australian community, is not that an illustration of the kind of thing which could be characterised as subversion? Would it not be outrageous if that were in fact to be the case and prominent members of political parties were to be subject to telephone tapping and surveillance simply for the reason that they were engaged in political dialogue, of that deep and intense kind. 
The second illustration that must be a familiar one to us all is in the area of racial hatred. I am second to no one in my detestation of racial propaganda of the kind that has been all too familiar even in current times in the Northern Territory and various outback areas of Australia and which is incapable of being characterised other than as directed to inciting hatred- not merely hostility- between different classes or racial groups in the Australian community. I am second to no one in my detestation of that practice and would wish the inciting of such hostility to be treated as a crime and subject to penal sanctions. But I would not wish- and I would be very grateful to get the views of the AttorneyGeneral on this-that kind of contribution to public dialogue, however unattractive it may be to be treated as subversive and such as to bring into operation all the procedures provided for in this Act. 
The third illustration would have to be again very obviously in the industrial arena where actions and language such as to continue the class warfare- if one can put it in those termsare part and parcel of the ordinary, ongoing character of industrial disputation, irrespective of whether we like it or regret it.  Senator Harradine,  in the course of his remarks which were generally fairly unenthusiastic so far as the Opposition's amendments were concerned in this area, acknowledge that the language of this subsection (c) was such at to raise very grave questions as to its application in the industrial area. Again, I ask the Attorney-General whether it would not be a reasonable, not a stretched or strained application of this language in subclause (c) as it reads at the moment, to have it applicable to the industrial arena so as to expose the industrial disputants in question- of whom there is always a litter on the scene at any given time- to characterisation as subversive and thus being within the operation of this Act. 
Finally, a current and familiar example that should be all too regrettably familiar to us is the kind of hatred arguably that has been generated in the community through the broadcasting media, in particular by the extravagant programming, which I would readily concede to be extravagantly unattractive in many respects, of the Melbourne radio station 3CR. That language has very often gone beyond what one may think are the ordinary, reasonable boundaries of political dialogue and has been such as to promote within the language of the sub-section hostility, or even hatred, to use the stronger word that the Attorney-General now wants us to put in there, between different groups of people within the Australian community, namely, the supporters respectively of the positions of the Israelis and the Palestinians. To the Opposition and to me they seem to raise quite serious examples of the kind of potential application that this clause could have. It is true that the promotion of hatred or hostility that has to be engendered in each case has to be such, as the section now reads:  . . as to endanger the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth'. 
It may be suggested by the Attorney-General that that particular rider at the end of the section is such as to create a quite significant barrier to the too loose and cavalier application of the section. But in respect of that kind of argument I remind the Attorney-General that the expression peace, order and good government' is one that appears in the Constitution; it is a familiar expression and has no particular substantive content at all. We talk about the Commonwealth powers to make laws in respect of peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth in relation to lighthouses, shipping buoys or meteorological observations. It is simply a phrase which I submit has no substantive content of a kind which would confine the operation of this section in any very extensive way. 
For all those reasons the Opposition pursues most strenuously this particular objection to the reference to hostility or hatred in this section. We do not contest the propriety of a section which enables the Act to operate in respect of activities directed to promoting violence between different groups of the community. We concede that that is proper within the general concept of subversion, that it is proper to be here as part of that definition. However, the Opposition does not concede for one moment that the width of the definition is such as to extend to anything that can be construed as promoting hatred between different groups in the Australian community the proper characterisation of subversion. We ask that the Government accept the Opposition's amendment accordingly. 
I think that it ought to be appreciated that the object of the Opposition's amendment to this clause and its foreshadowed amendment to clause 33 in respect of giving the Leader of the Opposition access to reports concerning the effect of the issue of a warrant is to put for all practical purposes the Leader of the Opposition in the same position, in so far as his knowledge of what is going on is concerned, as the responsible Minister- the Attorney-General. It is intended that for all practical purposes he should have the same degree of knowledge and the same degree of responsibility to maintain confidentiality in respect of that knowledge. We regard it as appropriate that the position of the Leader of the Opposition should be different from that of the Minister of the day only in respect of the actual ability to exercise executive power, to make decisions, in particular about the issue of warrants, and to give directions to the Director-General. As to knowledge on the one hand and responsibility to maintain confidentiality on the other, we see the two positions as being identical, and properly so. 
We say that because of the importance we attach to the conclusions of  Mr Justice  Hope on the desirability of a bipartisan approach being adopted to the whole business of security. It is a fact or which  Mr Justice  Hope- rightly so in our view- emphasised throughout his report. What  Mr Justice  Hope did not say- one rather wishes he had- is that the practice of adopting a nonbipartisan approach, the practice of not briefing the Leader of the Opposition on security matters, is one that regrettably was instituted by  Mr Menzies  in 1 950. That situation was maintained for a generation thereafter. It was a product, of course, of Menzies' paranoid obsession about the security risk constituted by the Labor Party and all its works. It is not surprising that, confessedly, a degree of paranoia has been exhibited in turn by the Labor Party over the whole of that generation about the security service and all its works. 
The Opposition is trying to get beyond that regrettable situation which obtained in the 1950s and 1960s. It wants to take the bipartisan character a good deal further than, regrettably, it appears the Government is willing to take it. We are duly grateful for the amendments that the Government has foreshadowed and for the fact that the Leader -of the Opposition will be consulted not only on the appointment of the Director-General but also on the appointment of any acting Director-General. We are grateful that the Leader of the Opposition is to be briefed regularly by the Director-General for the purpose of keeping him informed on matters relating to security. We are grateful that he is to have access to the report. However, in passing, we note the rather erratic and indeed insulting character of at least one of those proposed amendments, the one that has been the subject of some discussion already today, namely, that proposed to clause 92 of the Bill in respect of the annual report. That clause states that the Leader of the Opposition could get access to that report to the Minister, but that he has an obligation, a duty, to keep it secret. Of course it is conceded that he has that duty, that responsibility, but is it necessary to spell that out? If the Government spells that out here, why on earth is it not proposing to spell it out in relation to its proposed new clause 20a in which it is going to be said that: 
The Director-General shall consult regularly with the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives for the purpose of keeping him informed on matters relating to security. 
Is it intended that in respect of those consultations there be no obligation of security? Is it intended that the Director-General communicate nothing to the Leader of the Opposition which has to be kept secret or is the Government going to be tempted to put another rider in there? It is not necessary, any more than it is necessary to make specific obligations of confidentiality upon the Minister himself throughout the course of this legislation. 
Finally, it is not intended- and this has been made perfectly clear by speakers from the Opposition side- that the access of the Leader of the Opposition to this knowledge, to this information, should be in order to enable the Leader of the Opposition to make political capital out of what he has learned. It is not intended that in these circumstances it should be within the ability of the Leader of the Opposition to publicise, to spread abroad, what he hears. That is not the concept which lies behind this amendment and it is a misrepresentation for people like  Senator Puplick  to suggest, as I understood him, that this was the flavour of the Opposition's amendment. That is not our intention and that is not the way in which the amendment is drawn. The real significance of giving the Leader of the Opposition this degree of knowledge, this access to the working of the system, is of course as  Senator Cavanagh  pointed out, because of the very fact that the knowledge of the Leader of the Opposition of these things will act as a disincentive, as an obvious deterrent, to any latent tendency which there may be on the part of the Attorney-General of the day to use his position, to use his powers for party political purposes. It is the deterrent character, the disincentive character, that is so important and that we regard as crucial in this area. 
It is not the notion of the Leader of the Opposition coming along after the event like a white knight and publicising the peccadilloes, misdemeanours and misbehaviour of the AttorneyGeneral of the day. That is not the way in which we anticipate that the Leader of the Opposition would exercise the authority that we want him to have. To the extent that there is any cleaning up after the event to be done where misbehaviour is an issue, we see that essentially being the responsibility and the role of the judicial audit which we will seek to introduce into this Bill by way of a later foreshadowed amendment. It is that kind of thing that will preserve that role. The really crucial thing is to ensure that there is a deterrent quality so far as political misuse is concerned and, to repeat, a genuine bipartisan attitude towards the operation of the Organization. If the Attorney-General and the Government are really serious, as they say they are, about going along this bipartisan route and genuinely want to remove the atmosphere of bitterness, recrimination and paranoia to the extent that such has existed in this area over the last few decades; I urge them and the Opposition urges them most strenuously to go just a little bit further along the route that it is mapped out in its proposed amendments and to give the Leader of the Opposition the kind of detailed knowledge and detailed access to information which is sought by these amendments. 
I seek leave to move on behalf of the Opposition amendments No. 5 and 6 together, as they both relate to the substance of this clause. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
Page 4, clause 8, sub-clause (2), paragraph (c), lines 4 to 6, leave out the paragraph. 
Page 4, clause 8, at end of clause, add the following new sub-clauses: 
Subject to sub-section (4) of this section, the Minister is entitled to access to all records of the Organization. 
The Minister shall be informed by the DirectorGeneral as to the existence of any file, dossier or record held by or compiled by the Organization concerning a particular individual if the Minister so requests, but the Minister is not entitled to have access to any file, dossier or record concerning a particular individual unless the Director-General considers that it is in the interests of security that the Minister should have such access. '. 
In a moment I will explain the substance of the additions and deletions involved in the amendments. The most important thing to appreciate about these amendments and the clause to which they are directed is the nature and extent of ministerial responsibility for the Australian Security Intelligence Organization. The Opposition is persuaded that there is a need for such an explicit clause as clause 8 in the Bill. The weakness in the existing Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act is that there are no explicit provisions governing the relationship between the Attorney-General and the Director-General of Security. It was because of the absence of an explicit provision along these lines from the Act that the extraordinary allegations were made in 1973 about  Senator Murphy's  visit to the ASIO offices in Melbourne. That was the issue that brought the matter of the significance of ministerial responsibility starkly to the attention of the public. 
Because this is crucial to our understanding of the operation of the clause I will briefly canvass the competing views that have existed about the existing relationship between the Minister and the Director-General, the existing nature and extent of ministerial responsibility. The most extreme view, which in my opinion was quite ill founded, was peddled about from an anonymous Melbourne Queen's Counsel after the Murphy visit in 1973, namely, that the Attorney-General had no jurisdiction over the Organization at all; he had no power to demand files or to gain entry to premises of the Organization. That silk went so far as to suggest that  Senator Murphy,  in visiting the Organization in the way in which he did, had been guilty of not merely illegal but criminal conduct. This view was not swallowed by the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition in 1973- to give it some credit- although it did little publicly to counteract this view, as it was politically palatable. At the other end of the scale was the view which I hold- I believe that most lawyers hold this view- regarding the nature of the relationship; that is, that the traditional principles of ministerial responsibility and control apply in relation to the present Act. 
In the absence of anything specific to the contrary in the text of that Act, those principles operate in such a way that the Minister is fully entitled to assert his authority over the persons and premises of the Organization in the way that the then  Senator Murphy  did in 1973. That view was reinforced in the terms and conditions of appointment of the then Director-General. Those terms and conditions were drafted while  Mr Gorton  was Prime Minister and  Mr Tom  Hughes was Attorney-General. Those terms explicitly said that the Director-General was subject to the direction of the Attorney-General of the day. 
I will not canvass in detail questions about the legality or illegality, propriety or otherwise, of what happened in 1973. 1 mention these matters because of the challenge that was thrown out to the Opposition by  Senator Carrick  in the second reading debate to justify what  Senator Murphy  did on that occasion. There were innumerable practical justifications for what he did, in terms of the competing intelligence about Croatian terrorism available to him from the Commonwealth Police and the Australian Security Intelligence Organization. Evidence was available that led the then  Senator Murphy  to the reasonable belief that ASIO was withholding vital information from him. Quite apart from those considerations, the main point I stress is that there was impeccable legal backing for the then  Senator Murphy  doing what he did. in terms of the traditional and accepted notion of ministerial responsibility, which was not undermined by anything explicit in the Act. In paragraph 365 of the first volume of  Mr Justice  Hope's fourth report- we will see in a moment that he had a couple of shillings each way on this particular controversy- he said: 
I think that I should add that at the time or the so-called raid' by the Attorney-General in 1973, the view which was then accepted and had been acted on Tor a number of years was that the Director-General was subject in all respects to ministerial direction and control. 
As I have said, an extreme view was peddled by the Melbourne Queen's Counsel that the Attorney-General had no authority at all. On the other hand, as  Mr Justice  Hope acknowledges, there was the accepted view that he had complete authority, powers of direction and access to records and premises. A third view is now on the record and for the sake of completeness it ought to be mentioned. It is the intermediate view of ministerial responsibility in this respect advanced by  Mr Justice  Hope in his report. Rather uniquely, in terms of legal commentators, he perceived a distinction created in section 5 of the present Act, which concerns the functions of the Organization, which has the effect of saying that in certain areas a discretion is reserved to the Director-General.  Mr Justice  Hope summarised the position as he saw it. He said that there is a general power of direction in the AttorneyGeneral except with respect to certain matters, namely the communication of intelligence, where the discretion rests with the Director-General. 
There has been a controversy over what the present law is which has not assisted in any way the proper control or exercise of responsibility over the Organization. It has generated far more heat than light. It is for that reason that we are very happy to see a clause such as clause 8 in this Bill. It attempts to come to grips with the very difficult problem of ministerial responsibility and to identify precisely its boundaries. However, that is not to say that we are happy with the language of clause 8 as it presently stands. We are happy with it to the extent that it seems to embody the general principle that the power of the Minister should be maximised and that the independent, restraint-free power of the Director-General should be minimised to the greatest possible extent. That is a sound principle and one which we applaud. It is important that the power of the Minister be maximised as against the power of the Director-General for the simple reason that it is only the AttorneyGeneral of those two people who is answerable to Parliament and the people. The DirectorGeneral is not. If democracy means anything we have to maximise the power and responsibility of the elected official at the expense of the unelected. 
However, in stating that principle one has to recognise that in the security area there is a gap between the theory and the practice. It is very difficult to make the Minister genuinely accountable and responsible when he can answer questions put to him or attacks made on him in the Parliament simply by saying 'no comment', as has traditionally been the practice in this area. That is why the Opposition has been concerned to approach the question of accountability in a number of different ways at once. We should not only talk about ministerial responsibility and accountability; we should also provide various back-ups and safeguards involving the knowledge of the Leader of the Opposition, which we have just been debating, reports to Parliament, financial' accountability and so on. Most specifically of all, we should provide for judicial auditing. All these are necessary back-ups because of the weakness in practice of the notion of ministerial responsibility. 
That is the general background, as we see it, to clause 8. It is why we argue, firstly, for a clarification of the situation and, secondly, for the power of the Minister to be maximised. However, although we say that the power of the Minister should be maximised we do not say that his power and responsibility should be complete. We acknowledge the legitimacy of certain specific restrictions on the power of the Minister to exercise complete authority over the DirectorGeneral. We have no quarrel with the language of clause 8 (2) (a) and (b), both of which have the effect of limiting the specific power of the Minister to give directions on questions relating to the collection and dissemination of intelligence about particular individuals. We regard it as appropriate that there be a limitation on the ability of the Minister to give specific directions and exercise specific authority in this area. This is a theme and a principle which we pick up in our proposed new sub-clauses (3) and (4), to which I will refer in a moment. 
We oppose clause 8 (2) (c) in its present form. It is a curious provision which in turn limits the power of the Minister to give specific directions concerning the nature of the advice that should be given by the Organization, to a Minister, Department or authority of the Commonwealth'. We see this as an unnecessary limitation on the general power, authority and responsibility of the Minister. Moreover, it has dangerous connotations. The dangerous aspect is that paragraph (c) as it is drafted at the moment would extend to the Attorney-General himself. It refers to the nature of the advice that should be given by the Organisation to a Minister. In other words, it limits the ability of the Organization to communicate specific intelligence not just to other Ministers but to the Attorney-General himself. He is one of the Ministers who is subsumed in the description of the word 'Minister' as it appears in this clause. This is a roundabout way of enabling the Director-General to withhold specific information, not just about particular individuals, because paragraph (c) is much more general in its terms, that might be sought by the responsible Minister- the Attorney-General himself. That is the dangerous aspect of the clause. 
The other, more curious and unnecessary aspect of the clause is that it imposes a limitation of a wider kind on the Minister in respect of communications to other departments or authorities, not merely as to the detailed substance of such advice but as to whether any advice can be given to other departments. This is a complex clause. It is a little difficult to explain simply. The difficulty is that it imposes limitations on the authority of the Attorney-General to direct the DirectorGeneral as to the kind of intelligence he communicates. There are no such limitations on the ability of the Attorney-General to make such directions with regard to the communication of intelligence to overseas recipients, State agencies and so on. That is subject to ministerial direction. However, this clause contains a restriction in respect to the communication of intelligence to other Ministers or Commonwealth authorities which we see as inappropriate. There is not a sufficiently strong reason to limit the general power, authority and responsibility of the Attorney-General in this area. We would argue that it should come out. I see that my time has almost expired. I have something more to say about the justification for adding sub-clause (3) and sub-clause (4) but perhaps I can come back to that after other speakers have contributed. 
-I thank the Attorney-General. That is the rather twisted tale insofar as clause 8(2)(c) is concerned. I would be happy to expand upon it further in later argument if any further clarification is needed. The further amendment that the Opposition seeks to make is to add sub-clauses (3 ) and (4) in the terms that have been circulated, namely: 
Subject to sub-section (4) of this section, the Minister is entitled to access to all records of the Organization. 
The Minister shall be informed by the DirectorGeneral as to the existence of any file, dossier or record held by or compiled by the Organization concerning a particular individual if the Minister so requests, but the Minister is not entitled to have access to any file, dossier or record concerning a particular individual unless the Director-General considers that it is in the interests of security that the Minister should have such access. 
We regard that as just spelling out in more detail the kind of principle which has already been accepted by the Government in clause 8 (2) and with which we agree, namely, that there should be some limitation on the ability of the Minister of the day to poke about and pry within the area of individual files. The existing clause 8 (2) sets a limitation on the ability of the Minister to give directions to the Director-General insofar as the collection or dissemination of information about individuals is concerned. We see a necessity, although it is possibly subsumed at the moment within that clause, to spell it out in a bit more detail insofar as this very vexed question of access is concerned. We say, insofar as access is concerned, that the Minister should be entitled to have knowledge of the existence of particular files or material on an individual but he should not have the power to get access to the actual content of those files. 
The reason why we want to say something about access as well as just leave it in the realm of the ability to give directions is that the question of access has been the single most controversial aspect of this whole point of ministerial power. We regard it as desirable, as a matter of general legislative principle, that legislation should be clear and open on its face and capable of being interpreted and understood not just by lawyers but also by laymen. The sensitive question of access should not be concealed within the language of clause 8 (2), which is just about powers of direction, although obviously a direction could be given to give access to material and it could be argued that access is subsumed within clause 8 (2). We would regard it as desirable to have an explicit clause setting out, in language which no one can misunderstand, the powers of the Attorney-General and the limitations on the Attorney-General's powers insofar as access to files is concerned. This question of access was a controversial matter in 1 973 and it might well go on being a controversial matter in the future unless this legislation is a bit more explicit on this subject than it is at the moment. That is why we want specific clauses dealing with access. 
As to the precise subject matter of those clauses, the argument in favour of giving knowledge of existence but not access to content insofar as individual files are concerned is essentially, as I have already mentioned, an argument which it appears the Government itself has accepted in relation to the substance of clause 8(2). I appreciate that this is not a matter without controversy. There are many people who would say that the principle of ministerial power and responsibility ought to extend to full ministerial access to everything including the content of individual files and data about particular individuals. However, we of the Opposition would say that this is one of those areas where, on balance, it is appropriate that ministerial responsibility should be limited because of the dangers of political misuse of information about individuals by Ministers who are incapable of understanding the proprieties in these areas. We know that there were such Ministers and officials in the United States in the Johnson-Nixon era. Regrettably there is some evidence that this has happened in the past in Australia. The dissemination by  Senator Greenwood,  when he was AttorneyGeneral, of information about the security record of  Mrs Michaelis  has already been canvassed in the course of the second reading debate. We would say that that was a pretty clear misuse for political purposes of particular information from an individual file. That opportunity ought not to be vested in the Minister. Thus we would limit the power of access to individual files in the way which we have suggested and in the way which, as I keep saying, 1 think is quite consistent with the principles embodied in paragraphs ( a ) and ( b ) of the existing clause 8(2). 
We acknowledge that it is only one part of the job to choke off the capacity for misuse of these files by the Minister of the day. The Government also has to be concerned about how the DirectorGeneral himself might be tempted to use such information, not given the character and antecedents of the present Director-General but certainly given what we have been inclined to fear about Directors-General in the past and what we know about the track record of people such as Hoover in the United States. We offer no specific answer to that in this clause but we do point to the fact that we have already moved amendments and we will be moving further amendments which provide for accountability in other back-up ways. In particular, we see the real disincentive for any tendency on the part of a Director-General to misuse his powers- and he is the one who will have access to these individual files- as being the notion of the judicial audit, the process of another spring cleaning job from  Mr Justice  Hope or, in the case of South Australia,  Mr Justice  White or somebody else every three years or so. We see that as being a sufficient and quite effective disincentive to any tendency to misuse the content of those individual files by a Director-General. 
That is the overall situation. It is a complicated interlocking series of amendments to what is essentially a fairly complicated clause although it is not a long one. We of the Opposition regard it as important that the Government should go further than it has already gone in this area and accept these amendments because it is only by accepting these amendments and spelling them out in the way we have suggested that we believe that the proper balance between ministerial responsibility and limitations on ministerial power can be achieved. 
In response to the point  Senator Harradine  has just raised, let me say that the Opposition has indeed noted and applauded the distinction between the text of the Bill and the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope. This is one of the few instances, as we see it, in which the Government has departed from  Mr Justice  Hope's recommendations in a more liberal rather than illiberal direction. We saw  Mr Justice  Hope's recommendations as allowing too much room for limitation of the scope of ministerial power and responsibility, allowing too much residual authority to the Director-General. We regard the Government as having seized upon the correct principle in identifying those areas which should be left to the DirectorGeneral and not subjected to detailed ministerial direction by reference to security information relating to particular individuals. It was that aspect, of course, which I stressed earlier when explaining sub-clauses (3) and (4) of the Opposition's proposed new clause 7A, in which we sought to take that principle a stage further and introduce new provisions which related specifically to the question of access. But, lest it be thought by our silence that there is any support for the point raised by  Senator Harradine,  I want to put it clearly on record that the Opposition has noted and applauded this divergence from the Hope recommendations. 
I seek leave on behalf of the Opposition to move together amendments Nos. 8 and 9, which both relate to the substance of clause 1 8. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
Page 6, clause 18, sub-clause (2), line 37, leave out 'or relates to the performance by the Organization of its functions '. 
Page 7, clause 18, sub-clause (2), line 6, before 'he is guilty of an offence', insert 'and such a communication would seriously prejudice security, '. 
I will explain the effect of both the above amendments in a moment. I am glad to notice that in the last few minutes there has been a 400 per cent increase in the population of the Press Gallery. 
Yes, indeed. I am glad to see that four more people have come flocking in to hear the Opposition draw attention to some of the difficulties about this clause, which is and should be of great interest to the Press. The clause penalises communications about intelligence and security made by officers or former officers of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It is a corollary of the creation of an offence of this kind that those who solicit or receive such information are likely to be guilty, on first principles, of aiding and abetting the commission of such an offence. 

 - Senator Wheeldon would be quite encouraged at that prospect, after his remarks yesterday. As  Senator Missen  said, the statute book is littered with provisions guaranteeing secrecy and prohibiting the communication of information by public servants. 
The most far-reaching and notorious of those provisions is section 70 of the Crimes Act, which provides a jail term of two years for any Commonwealth officer who publishes or communicates any fact or document which comes to his knowledge or into his possession by virtue of his office and which it is his duty not to disclose. That is a catch-all and draconian provision which has been the subject of a great deal of criticism over the years. There are provisions such as Public Service Regulation 34A which operates as a disciplinary restraint on the communication of any information. Regulation 34B, which prohibited Public Service comment, of course was repealed by the Whitlam Government during its term of office. Such provisions, by and large, as  Senator Missen  said, are incompatible with the freedom of information principle. I hope that the freedom of information legislation that ultimately emerges from the deliberative processes of Parliament will embody some substantial reduction in the scope and operation of the secrecy clauses, including in particular section 70 of the Crimes Act. 
If there have to be secrecy provisions in Commonwealth legislation- the Opposition readily acknowledges that this may be so in particular situations- we take the view and acknowledge that the preferable way of providing for guarantees of secrecy and prohibitions on communication is to tackle the problem with individually tailored provisions appropriately drafted to suit particular departmental situations. We further acknowledge that there is an obvious necessity to maintain a significant prohibition on the communication of information with respect to ASIO. For both those reasons we have no basic objection to the existence of a clause such as clause 1 8. Our objection is to the scope of that clause as it presently stands. It is too wide and catch all and it goes too far. 
There are many aspects of the administration of the Organization as distinct from its field operations, if I might use that terminology, which could be revealed, and arguably should be revealed, without any significant risk to the effective operation of the Organization as a whole. That is the primary reason why the first of these two amendments has been moved, the effect of which is to reduce the scope of sub-clause (2) so that the prohibition relates only to persons communicating information by or on behalf of the Organization in connection with its functions. Omitted from the scope of the clause would be communication of information which 'relates to the performance by the Organization of its functions '. 
It might be thought that that distinction is somewhat Jesuitical, but it has appealed to the Opposition as having some significance. The Opposition wants to narrow the scope of the prohibited information so that the only information that is to be prohibited is that prepared or acquired on behalf of the Organization in connection with its functions. We want to delete the wider reference to information relating to 'the performance by the Organization of its functions'.  Senator Missen  's face is screwed up in puzzlement about this. 
I understand that. It is arguable that we would achieve no more than giving a certain new flavour to the clause. I readily acknowledge that this amendment may not make any significant diffierence to the substance of the clause. 
The functions of the Organization are defined in clause 1 7 as the collection of security and so on. It is legitimate in respect of information on such functions to impose a significant secrecy barrier. But talking about the performance of those functions has a flavour of administrative efficiency about it. We say that matters related to the administrative structure and efficiency of the Organization- at least where it can be demonstrated that the effectiveness of the Organization will not be put at risk by such disclosure- prima facie ought to be able to be communicated. That is the point that we make. Some people would say that the communication of any information at all about ASIO, relating to the size of its staff, the location of its offices, the nature of its budgeting, the manner of its financial administrationanything at all related to the efficiency or quality of the Organization and its performance- must be kept secret; that it is unconscionable or unimaginable that such information should ever be disclosed to anyone. 
There are those- including, I imagine, the Director-General of the Organization, from what he has put on public record- who would say that nothing at all should be disclosed. I have always taken the perhaps slightly cynical view that that kind of position rather overstates the case. I say cynical' because it seems to me that there are only two kinds of threats, speaking generically, to the security of this nation. One threat comes from the relatively sophisticated foreign espionage area which might effectively be able to use such administrative information; but sophisticated foreign intelligence operations are almost certain to have such information anyway. The other kind of threat is the unsophisticated domestic one. Domestic organisations are unlikely to have this kind of detailed administrative information but, on the whole, they would be unlikely to be able to use it even if they had it. It is possible to argue credibly that the case for preserving from the public gaze any detailed information about the administrative operations of the agency is an overstated one. 
I move to the second amendment which, in many ways, is more important and significant. The communication of information of any kind about the agency and its operations should be penalised only when that communication can be demonstrated to be prejudicial to the nation's security. Unless it can be so demonstrated, the communication should not be penalised under this savage clause. Accordingly, this is a criterion which ought to be incorporated in the text of this clause to become, as it were, an element of the offence. That is why we would add in sub-clause (2) the words 'and such a communication would seriously prejudice security'. .In other words, a person would be guilty of an offence only if the communication he made could be demonstrated to prejudice security seriously. If necessary this could be done in an in camera court hearing if it were thought that any analysis of the question by the court would be inappropriate for security reasons to be exposed to the public gaze. 
I repeat that such a condition ought to be an additional element of this offence. The communication by itself should not be subject to these penalties. It might be argued that it would place an impracticable or impossible burden on the intelligence organisation to have to produce evidence in court- even a closed court- about the prejudicial character of the information in question. But if the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  is tempted to make that sort of reply, I remind him that in order to make a prosecution under clause 18 stick, the prosecution already has to prove a number of things about the Organization. It has to prove the existence of and identify the information in question. It has to prove to the satisfaction of the court that it came into the knowledge of the person by reason of his having been an officer or employee of the Organization. It has to show to the court that the information was acquired or prepared by or on behalf of the Organization in connection with its functions or related to the purpose of the Organization's functions. If it has to do all those things in order to put this offence together, it seems to the Opposition that it would not be an excessively great additional burden and that it would not thrust the security of the nation into grave peril for it to go a step further and prove that the communication was prejudicial to security. I repeat that we would see no objection to an in camera hearing of evidence in support of that part of the case. 
To sum up, the Hope report demonstrated all too clearly and vividly the long and sorry record of maladministration which has been part and parcel of ASIO 's operations for almost the whole of its history. We suggest that one of the factors that undoubtedly has contributed to that history of maladministration is the secrecy which has prevailed with respect to every aspect of the organisation's operation, its financial accountability and its administrative operations. The open government principle- I heartily endorse what  Senator Missen  said- is a very important one. It should apply so far as is humanly possible right across the governmental spectrum. There is nothing magically different about security services. Certainly legislation of this kind imposing draconic penalties for the communication of information of all kinds, not only operational but also administrative information, should not be allowed to go on the statute book in its present form. It should be substantially narrowed in scope in the way the Opposition suggests. 
-The Attorney-General's response does not come as altogether a surprise to the Opposition. I wonder whether he would be prepared to throw the Opposition a bone of the kind he has anticipated and foreshadowed as an appropriate amendment to clause 90, which is a similar provision. It relates to the communication of information as to the possible identity of an ASIO employee or agent. The Opposition will be moving an amendment which provides that that clause should only apply and that such a prosecution should be brought only with the consent of the AttorneyGeneral, which consent will be given only when the Attorney-General is persuaded either that the safety of the individual officer is endangered or that there would be a serious prejudice to security. That is the substance of the amendment which the Opposition proposes to move to clause 90. I note in respect of that clause that the Attorney-General has foreshadowed an amendment in the following terms: 
A prosecution Tor an offence against sub-section ( 1 ) shall be instituted only by or with the consent of the Attorney-General. 
We of the Opposition do not think that is very much by way of a safeguard but at least it is better than nothing in ensuring that some serious ministerial attention will be devoted, presumably among other things, to the security implications of the communication in question. I ask the Attorney-General to indicate whether he is prepared to give consideration to accepting an amendment of that kind to clause 1 8. 
I am interested not only in the machinery by which this undertaking is to be implemented- I also hope for an undertaking that it will be part of the Bill itself- but also in the nature and extent of the undertaking in question. The Attorney-General referred to vetting information with respect to State officers as being the class of information that would be transmitted through Commonwealth agancies and thus subject to appeal in the manner that he suggested. But is that not merely the tip of the iceberg in respect of the problem the Opposition amendment is addressing? I remind the Attorney-General that clause 19 of the Bill empowers the Organization to co-operate with departments, police forces and authorities of the States. Surely co-operation implies for the future, as it has implied in the past, a fairly liberal flow of general information to and from the Australian Security Intelligence Organization and, among others, the State special branches. Clause 17(1) (b), which has also been the subject of discussion, states: 
The functions of the Organization are-  . . (b) to communicate any such intelligence to such persons, and in such manner, as are appropriate to those purposes; 
So the Organization and its Director-General have an open-ended mandate, as the legislation is now drafted, to communicate information directly to the State authorities, and in particular to State special branches, which as we all know have been the major recipients of ASIO information in the past. 
What is to be the situation with respect to this class of information which is transmitted from ASIO to the State special branches, either pursuant to some standing arrangement or perhaps on request in relation to some particular individual, which is put in its files by that State special branch or State police agency, and which then at some future stage, when a question as to a security assessment for State government purposes arises, is derived from those files? It is not a fantastic scenario that I am postulating. As I understand it, that is the way the organisations have operated in the past; and that is the way they will continue to operate in the future. It does not seem to me that that kind of information exchange- information that is put into files, and subsequently used for security assessment purposes at the State level- has been addressed at all in the remarks the Attorney-General made, reassuring as they may have been in the limited context of vetting information specifically sought in relation to a State officer. Can we have the Attorney-General's comments on that? 
-As one of the Committee members most closely involved in the compilation of this report, I re-enter this debate to explain as briefly and as unemotionally as I can, just why it is I support  Senator Cavanagh  's amendment as being more consistent with the spirit and letter of the Committee report than the amendment moved tonight by  Senator Puplick.  It is true that the report says that the acquisition of Aboriginal land and measures of that kind should be contingent in Aurukun and Mornington Island or anywhere else, on the failure, first of all, of co-operation with the State government concerned. It is true that the report says that, as  Senator Puplick  points out, and I readily acknowledge it. 
However, the simple but fundamental difference between  Senator Cavanagh  's amendment and  Senator Puplick  's amendment is a difference of opinion as to whether that cooperative approach has in fact been successful. The Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  on behalf of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Chaney, Senator Puplick  and now  Senator Bonner,  have all said in effect that the bringing of the Aurukun and Mornington Island reserves under the Queensland Local Government Act and the elections which have just been held for the local council so established, represent some kind of triumph for cooperation; they represent a demonstration of how it is possible for Aboriginal aspirations, Federal Government responsibilities and Queensland Government obsessions to be welded together in a single satisfactory whole with which we can all, for the moment, be satisfied. That is the substance of what has been argued tonight on behalf of  Senator Puplick  's amendment. 

 Senator Cavanagh and we who support him say that the history of Aurukun and Mornington Island has been a tragic one of sell-out after sellout. Those words are not too strong to describe the history of the two communities in recent years. The Federal Government has been outgunned, outmanoeuvred and made to look thoroughly foolish by a State government which has acted in contemptuous disregard of the 1967 referendum and of the Federal Government legislation which has since been passed. The Federal Government has been sold out by a State government which has not demonstrated the slightest sensitivity at any stage to the feelings and aspirations of Aboriginal people. Regardless of what  Senator Bonner  may say, the Aborigines in those communities have made it patently clear that they are unhappy with the Queensland Government and all its works. They are unhappy with their failure to get any guaranteed tenure over time of the land in question. They are thoroughtly unhappy with the complex Queensland Government controlled local government system which has now been forced upon them. If this be co-operation, so too is the acquiescence of a rape victim at knife point. 
That is the issue before us tonight. Any kind of objective analysis-  Senator Puplick  may not be capable of it- of the present situation in Queensland must lead one to the conclusion that there has not been the kind of operation to which the Committee was referring in its report as the pre-condition for no Federal Government intervention in land acquisition or more drastic measures of that kind. In the absence of that co-operation the only solution which we can adopt without shame and which is consistent with the Committee's findings is the acquisition by the Commonwealth, on behalf of the Aboriginal people, of the land involved in these two communities. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations. I refer to statements made by the Victorian Premier that if re-elected a Victorian Liberal government would legislate for secret ballots to be held at union meetings considering strike action. The Minister will doubtless be aware of the Bureau of Statistics estimates that more than 50 per cent of all employees in Victoria are employed under Federal awards and that all but four unions in Victoria are registered under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I ask the Minister: Is it not the case that such Victorian legislation would in effect take over from the Commonwealth Government the responsibility it presently has for the regulation and control of these Federal unions and their meetings? If so, what is the Government's attitude to such a takeover? Will it sit back and allow the federally registered unions in Victoria to be controlled by a Victorian State government and parliament? 
I present the following petition from 32 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
The slaughter of the seal is unnecessary and very inhumane, and the method of using a spiked club to slaughter baby seals is absolutely disgusting. Many of these babies are skinned before they have died. The substances obtained from seals can be obtained from man-made products. 
If this slaughter continues (and it occurs in only one month of each year), it is estimated, like many other animals and mammals, they will thus become extinct. 
We, the undersigned, request that you act on this petition to encourage a ban on the slaughter of seals. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Congenital Abnormalities in Children 
I present the following petition from 140 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate 'is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Notwithstanding the acknowledgement of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that he has considered the amendment moved by  Senator Cavanagh  and foreshadows a further amendment in the form of proposed new clause 38A, the Opposition wishes to pursue the amendment standing in  Senator Cavanagh  's name. It will be remembered that the amendment has the effect of requiring that before the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation may communicate any information to a State, or particularly to the special branch of a State police force, the Commonwealth must be satisfied that that State has established an appeal system of its own which is comparable in all respects to the appellate system established by this legislation and which has at least as much efficacy as the Commonwealth appeals system has in protecting the rights of people involved. The amendment foreshadowed by the Attorney will, of course, be a matter of detailed debate if and when we get to it- this month, next month or some other month. But I think it should be noted right at the outset that the Opposition is not happy with the substance of the amendment which is proposed by the Attorney-General. It does not believe that that amendment meets the case that needs to be met. 
There is a real problem with the communication of information by ASIO to State special branches. This Senate should be left in no doubt about the way in which State special branches have misused in the past, information which they have accumulated both in their own right and which has been communicated to them as a matter of course by the Commonwealth agency. That misuse of material has been a matter of elaborate public record in the report of  Mr 
Justice White in South Australia where it was demonstrated, one would have thought even to  Senator Durack  's satisfaction, that the State apparatus is simply not to be relied upon in terms of willingness to observe sensitivities and civil liberties of the citizens in the respective States. In South Australia we had it clearly demonstrated that people active in the civil liberties movement, and Labor politicians- the compliment was not extended to politicians on the conservative side-- 
There were some Liberal politicians caught up in the net of information. 
That is right. There was that case. I am reminded by  Senator Button  and  Senator Cavanagh  of the politician who was seen expanding his repertoire by peering in a communist bookshop and found himself in the State special branch records as a result. Not only specific politicians and people associated with civil liberties movements but also a mass of ordinary citizens have been caught up in the information gathering methods and techniques adopted by that State special branch. They have been caught up in the surveillance activities undertaken by that special branch in cooperation, it is well understood, with the Commonwealth agency, ASIO. 
The basis on which information has been accumulated by such State agencies has been made again a matter of public record not only by  Mr Justice  White's report but also by the evidence which was forthcoming by  Mr Salisbury,  the former Chief Commissioner of the South Australian Police, in the evidence he gave before the Mitchell inquiry. During this inquiry he made, as is well known, some quite extraordinary admissions about the range and the depth of the surveillance activities and the highly idiosyncratic basis on which that information was accumulated. 
During the course of cross-examination  Mr Salisbury  was asked how he could justify the keeping of detailed records and information upon people who simply participated, for example, in anti-Vietnam marches. There was no suggestion that such people had been involved in any way in violent activities directed to the overthrow of the State or any organ within it.  Mr Salisbury  made it clear in his reply that this was done 'because it was impossible to distinguish them unless you put them under close observation . . . '. He was then asked by  Mr Cox: 
Is this the position, that in any significant meeting or organisation in which the evil-minded might be present along with the innocent-minded, it is legitimate in your view to record them all? 

 Mr Salisbury said: 
I think so, yes . . . 
Richard Hall in his book  The Secret State  makes the following comment in response to that passage which I think deserves quotation. He says: 
The theology is of course not new. One recalls the cleric, at (he sack of  Beziers  in the Albigensian War who, when asked how Catholics could be distinguished from the heretics, responded ' Kill them all. God will know his own. ' 
That was the kind of attitude adopted by the South Australian State special branch. Again this is by no means confined to what knowledge we have about South Australia. A very detailed scrutiny was undertaken last year of the situation in New South Wales by the highly respected and independent New South Wales Privacy Committee which revealed among other things that something like 4,800 photographs of people participating in demonstrations had been acquired from various sources by that State special branch and were kept on the files there. 
The reality is that the State organs of security just cannot be relied upon to demonstrate any kind of good sense, any kind of moderation or any kind of sensitivity to people's civil liberties. That is the record. It is a record which has long been suspected by many people in this country and that suspicion has now been confirmed by unequivocally respectable sources. We ought not in this Parliament lend ourselves to any mechanism such as is created by this Bill which does not as it stands at the moment impose any significant constraints at all on the ability of the Commonwealth through ASIO to communicate information to whomever it likes, on any subject it likes, with respect to anyone at all. 
The record is all too regrettably clear that this kind of information has been kept randomly, erratically and insensitively in the past by State agencies. There is absolutely no guarantee that it will be kept properly in the future and not misused by those agencies in a way that is unconscionable. It is for that reason that we continue to insist that, while acknowledging that it may be appropriate for good sound security reasons to pass information with respect to particular situations and particular persons from time to time from ASIO to State authorities, that information should be communicated only if there is the absolute guarantee that the information is not capable of being used- not just 'not likely' to be used which is the kind of terminology which appears in the Attorney's foreshadowed amendment, for the test is not just a matter of subjective anticipation that it is likely to be used in the immediately foreseeable future- to produce an adverse security assessment against a particular individual in the way that this information has too often been used in the past by State agencies. If that is not the case, it should not be communicated by ASIO unless the Commonwealth is absolutely satisfied that there exists within the State's own apparatus a proper appeal system of a kind which fully protects the rights and liberties of the individuals so concerned. This is the substance and the subject matter of  Senator Cavanagh  's amendment. 
The proposition that is foreshadowed by the Attorney just does not direct itself explicitly enough to the points that the Opposition and I have been making. I urge the Attorney to accept  Senator Cavanagh  's amendment as a realistic one and as one that imposes no constitutional problems. We would not be forcing the States to do anything. We would simply be saying: 'You will not get the material you want unless you are prepared to accept certain conditions attached to its supply, namely, the establishment of proper appellate machinery'. It is on that basis that the Opposition insists upon its amendment. 
I move: 
Page 8, after clause 23, insert the following new clause: 23a. The Minister shall not issue any warrant pursuant to the powers conferred upon him by this Division, unless he is satisfied on reasonable grounds that other lawful methods of investigation have proved insufficient, or would in all the circumstances be quite impracticable as a means of obtaining the information for which the warrant is proposed to be issued. 
We have now moved on to Division 2 of Part III of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill which confers special powers upon the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. This has been a quite notorious section of the Bill which has been subject to a great deal of public criticism. The Division in question confers quite unprecedented additional powers upon ASIO. In the past it has had powers to tap telephones. These powers were conferred upon it by the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act. But this part of the Bill gives ASIO unprecedented sweeping new additional powers with respect to the interception and inspection of mail, the installation of listening devices, the entering and searching of premises and the removal of material found therein. This can only be described as legal burglary. The powers that are to be conferred upon ASIO in this way are quite unprecedented. Previously they have not been legally available. Regrettably, however, the absence in the past of these formal legal powers to do these things does not appear to have stopped the Organisation from actually exercising them. This was quite explicitly acknowledged by  Mr Justice  Hope in the course of his report. I quote from paragraphs 1 16 to 119, volume 1, fourth report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. It is stated:   . . 1 shall discuss particular principles of propriety, including legality, to which ASIO should have regard in fulfilling its functions. 
Material before mc establishes that there have at times been departures by ASIO from these principles. 
I repeat that these are principles of propriety and legality. The report continues: 
The departures have been of varying significance. Their justification has also varied in weight. Indeed it is somewhat difficult now to determine the precise weight of particular matters of justification, for it is not possible to place one's self in the precise context in which the departure occurred. It must also be remembered that ASIO has been asked over many years to carry out its functions without the extensive special powers that the police have, and without guidelines on questions of propriety. 
I do not propose to deal with ASIO's transgressions in detail. 

 Mr Justice Hope went on to state: 
This report is concerned with the future rather than with the past and to point to what should happen, in the future. Of course the past is relevant to show what might happen in the future. 
These considerations do not, however, minimise the necessity for the organisation to have standards, and to ensure that they arc complied with. 
In a later section  Mr Justice  Hope goes on to talk about the absolute necessity for ASIO always complying with the law. That is very cautious judicious language- It does not set out in any specific detail particular cases of transgression but it does amount, I suggest, to a quite farreaching indictment nonetheless of the misbehaviour of ASIO in the past and to its utter indifference to the absence from its repertoire of the kind of powers which it is now proposed to insert in that repertoire. Where one has a situation of an organisation blatantly disobeying the law in the course of its investigations as clearly as was the case with ASIO in the past, it is apparent that one can only restore the credibility of such an organisation by changing either the law on the one hand or the practice of the organisation on the other hand. Inevitably, the government has taken the view that what ought to be changed is the law to enable ASIO in the future to do legally what would have been illegal in the past. 
I comment that it is something of an Alice in Wonderland reaction to an organisation that has been behaving illegally, to correct that illegality by making what it has been doing now legal. But an Alice in Wonderland logic of this kind seems to permeate the Government's thinking whenever it deals with security matters. I concede that if it could be established that the investigative powers in question were absolutely necessary to enable the proper performance of ASIO's functions, there might be a case for inserting the powers that are proposed to be inserted by this Division of the Bill. The difficulty we have is that we have not been told enough, either by  Mr Justice  Hope or by anything the Attorney-General has offered us in this debate, to enable us to make any such judgment. However, what we have been told by  Mr Justice  Hope is that these powers should not be used when there is any possibility of the information which is being sought being obtainable by other means.  Mr Justice  Hope made this point very clear at page 76 of the volume of the report from which I quoted previously. He said: 
Much information can be gleaned from published or otherwise overtly available, sources. Open sources should not be lightly passed over by ASIO. 
My impression is that ASIO may have made rather too little of open sources of information. Research and collation methods now used in ASIO will need development. Greater attention than hitherto to these obvious and legitimate sources will pay dividends for the organisation . . . 
The KGB is said never to believe anything unless they can obtain the information clandestinely. Some ASIO officers have made the same kind of mistake. 
They are not my words; they are the words of  Mr Justice  Hope. That is a very strong and explicit recommendation. One would hardly have thought it necessary but in the light of ASIO's previous performance undoubtedly it was believed that in the future such a stricture should be made. I hope that that stricture made by  Mr Justice  Hope will be observed by the Organisation in the future. What the Opposition is concerned to ensure is that there will be some statutory direction to that effect and that it will not be simply left up to the passing goodwill of the organisation of the day. It is for this reason, among others, that we move the amendment standing in the name of the Opposition which I read a moment ago. The substance of the amendment is that the Minister shall not issue any warrant in respect of any of these powers to install listening devices, to intercept mail or to engage in illegal burglary as I have described it unless he is satisfied on reasonable grounds that other lawful methods of investigation have proved insufficient or impracticable. 
The whole Division which is the subject of this discussion raises a number of questions about the proper safeguards which ought to be attached to the exercise of these powers. In a moment I will deal again with the amendment before us. That amendment ought to be looked at in the context ofthe Opposition's whole approach to the question of safeguards around the exercise of these draconic powers. One such safeguard that ought to be mentioned specifically, because it has occasioned a degree of public comment, is that the warrants that are to be issued to enable the exercise of these powers should not be granted by the Minister, but rather by a court, as is the situation by and large in the United States. I would certainly acknowledge that there is a strong prima facie reason for making warrants authorising the exercise of these investigative powers judicial rather than ministerial, the argument being that that would ensure that an element of independence comes into the decisionmaking process. 
However, the Opposition, on balance, after carefully considering this matter, has decided to accept the principle embodied in the Bill as it stands; that it ought to be the Minister who accepts the responsibility for the issuing of these special power warrants, the reason being that the Minister is accountable to the Parliament and to the people in a way that in our system the courts are not. The corollary of the argument is that it is appropriate that there should be this kind of accountability in the political forum when, as here, it is not the commission or the investigation of criminal offences- properly so called- which is immediately in issue, but rather questions having to do with the much more amorphous concept of possible prejudice to national security. But there are problems, which I think ought to be openly acknowledged, in leaving the principle of ministerial accountability stand in the way that the Opposition is prepared to. The problem obviously is that ministerial accountability can be a very evanescent thing when talking about security matters, given the practice of successive ministers in this place not, in fact, to openly and informatively answer questions that are put to them about security matters in the chamber. 
If ministerial accountability is to be accepted as the proper guiding principle that should prevail in respect to the issue of these warrants or with respect to other matters in this Bill, we believe that that accountability has to be supplemented by other forms of accountability to ensure that the Organisation and the Minister do not run wild. That is the reason why the Opposition has moved, and will go on moving for the duration of this debate, for the additional insertion of other accountability mechanisms, other checks and balances. One such amendment that we have moved involves the Leader of the Opposition, not just in consultations with the government of the day- a principle which I am delighted to acknowledge the Government has conceded in the amendment that we passed just a few moments ago- being involved in the detailed day to day scrutiny of the operations of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and being entitled to be fully briefed on the way in which in particular the special power warrants are dispensed and what the outcome of their use is. 
Further, members of the Opposition say, and we will go on saying it and moving amendments to try to establish it, that there should be accountability in the form of reports to Parliament on the way in which these powers have been exercisedfurther and very detailed reports not going to the specific subject matter, perhaps, of phone taps and listening device installations and so on that are in issue, but certainly at least going to the number of such taps and installations and surveillance exercises and occasions of legal burglary that are engaged in in the course of any one year, and some indication as to the subject matter which occasioned those exercises. Further, in the realm of accountability we have argued and will continue to argue for additional safeguards in the form of regular independent judicial auditing of what the Organisation does. I do not mean financial auditing but a scrutiny being undertaken on a regular basis, perhaps every three or four years, by a judge, or someone of that independent stature, who can come in and check and see for himself that the powers in question have not been misused by the Minister and by the agency. But it is not enough simply to settle for accountability safeguards of that kind. In addition, when we are talking, as we are now, about these special powers, we regard it as necessary that the scope and extent of those powers be modified in other ways. I foreshadow that we will be moving an amendment to limit the time for which warrants can be made available for, in particular, the installation of listening devices at any one time. 
I now come back to the text of the amendment before us. We regard it as crucial that there should be some explicit statutory direction that these powers, with all their draconic implications, should not be utilised at all unless in a situation where other methods of investigation, or other methods of information seeking by ordinary techniques, have proved quite impracticable or manifestly insufficient in all the circumstances. That is the substance of the amendment upon which the Opposition is insisting. I may need to pursue this further after another  speaker  as my time is nearly expired. Let me say in summary- I will add further weight to this point later- that the reason why the Opposition is insisting upon this amendment and is so concerned about it is simply the magnitude of the invasions of personal liberty and, in particular, personal privacy that are associated with the exercises of these powers. There is ample evidence of just what kind of order of magnitude I am talking about in the existing literature. Perhaps I will have an opportunity to inform the Committee about the state of that literature for a couple of minutes after another  speaker  has contributed to this debate. 
What a fascinating demonstration of that radicalism, that pre-occupation with civil liberties which has made  Senator Puplick,  and I must add his colleague,  Senator Missen,  the darlings of the Australian Press in relation to the conduct of this particular debate and the passage of this Bill. Once again, what a pity it is that more organs of the Press are not here to hear for themselves the kinds of propositions which were being articulated by  Senator Puplick  tonight. All that the Opposition is trying to do is guarantee that the Minister turns his attention explicitly to the question before he enables the exercise of these draconic powers to the consideration of whether, in all the circumstances that are put before him and revealed to him, he is satisfied that the other available methods of investigation have proved impracticable or insufficient. That is all that is being sought. It does not go in any way to strike at the foundations of the Bill or the powers that will be available. 
I would have thought that if  Senator Puplick  had any principle at all to justify the reputation he has so unjustifiably earned for himself over the course of the passage of this debate he would be prepared readily and openly to acknowledge the futility of any such provision.  Senator Puplick  talks about the burdensome quality of the task that is put upon the Minister by having to turn his mind to these considerations, of how he would have to look at considerations of the previous availability and utilisation of other techniques of investigation, how burdensome it would be and what an obligation to impose on the Minister. Of course, the reality of the matter is that the nature of the powers that are here being exercised are so sweeping and have such enormous implications that the burden involved on the Minister by comparison is trivial indeed. We do not have much information on the record as to just how these powers have been exercised in the past.  Mr Justice  Hope is rather silent on the matter. However, what we do have, put on the record by  Senator Murphy  in 1973, is at least some indication of how these powers and associated powers in the area of telephone tapping have been utilised in a 10-year period. That evidence was put on the record in April 1973 in a written answer to a question in this Parliament. For convenience I will quote that passage from the report of the Australian Law Reform Commission, second report on the Commission's investigations, paragraph 216.  Senator Murphy  is reported as saying:   . . that the number of authorisations of interceptions made for security purposes under the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act have been as follows over the preceding 10 years: 
1964-62, 1965-70, 1966-75, 1967-105, 1968-95, 1969-80, 1970-95, 1971-105, 1972-1 15, 1973-107. 
To my knowledge this is the only information that has been placed on the public record as to the actual numerical extent of the exercise of telephone tapping powers. Of course, we now have to think not only about telephone tapping powers but also the installation of listening devices and all the other powers to which I have referred. Maybe there will be some honourable senators who will be unimpressed by these figures, a mere 100 or so people a year having their telephones tapped. Think about the implications of" that, when one contemplates that each of those taps has been installed for a period of up to six months. That is the available statutory power at the moment with respect to security telephone tapping. I suggest that what the Law Reform Commission says about this is worth quoting and listening to in full. It states: 
Although figures have not been made available for the number of people and the conversations overheard in the course or these interceptions, the figures may be assumed to be very large. This is particularly so given the fact that A.S.I.O. taps authorised by the Attorney-General are usually for periods of three months or six months. If American figures as to the ratio  of persons  and conversations overheard to wire-taps installed are any kind of guide, it may indeed have been the case that the 107 wire-taps authorised in the year ending March 1973 resulted in the overhearing of as many as 12,000 different people engaged in as many as 68,000 conversations. 
From where have those figures been derived by the Law Reform Commission? The footnote sets it out. It states: 
Figures compiled by Professor H. Schwartz of the State University of New York, reported in the  New York Times  of 19 December 1971, reveal that 271 eavesdropping operations installed in 1969 in fact involved 31,436 people overheard in 173,711 conversations. This ratio of persons and conversations to wire-taps, if indeed accurate for the United States, may, it is conceded, in fact be wildly astray for Australia. But there is no more precise information on the public record. 
That is the kind of assumption we must make in the absence of alternative or additional information, which we would be delighted to have from the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  if he were prepared to give it to us, as to the actual number of conversations overheard in the exercise of the powers enjoyed at the moment. In the absence of any further detailed information we simply have to accept the best evidence we can get. The best evidence we can get from the US experience with the same sort of ratios suggests that the limited number of wire taps which have occurred in years gone past may have resulted, as I have said, in as many as 12,000 different people being overheard having 168,000 different conversations. It has to be appreciated that this is the magnitude of the invasion of civil liberties and privacy that is potentially involved in the exercise of these powers. The kind of material that will be accumulated as a result of this surveillance needs only to be contemplated to be boggled at. I am delighted to see that  Senator Hamer  is now entering the chamber. In the course of his speech at an earlier stage of this debate he said that many people seem to have a phobia or neurosis about the existence of security dossiers. He said: 
Many people seem to regard them in much the same way as primitive tribesmen used to regard a lock of hair held by someone else. People think that in some way the existence of dossiers can do them damage. 
No doubt from the full weight of his experience as a director of naval intelligence,  Senator Hamer  says that dossiers do not do anyone damage. I contest that assertion. I contest the assertion that the exercise of surveillance powers on the scale that has been exercised in the past and will be exercised in the future does not do anyone any damage and that the mere existence of this squirrelling away of informationgathering activity does not in itself do any harm and should not in any event cause any neurosis. The reason I say that is the well established and accepted argument, certainly in the United States, that the implications of the use of these powers go primarily to the chilling effect that their use has on the political activity which is essential to the workings of democracy. The reality of that point is made clear very effectively in the annual report for last year of the New South Wales Privacy Committee. Its scrutiny of the dossiers accumulated by the New South Wales Special Branch is summarised on page 23 of the report. It refers to the:   . . effect on individuals of uneasiness, whether rational or even irrational, caused by feelings that they are under surveillance by those with power to harm them, which feelings may go to the extent of inducing them to restrict the exercise of their ordinary freedoms. The above considerations apply more acutely where the collection of information is by a police body of any type. The ordinary citizen expects that he will come under surveillance by police, expects that where he seeks protection that will happen only if suspicion arises that he has been guilty of a breach of the criminal law or is planning one. As soon as the suspicion is removed, the thoughtful citizen requires not only the surveillance will cease but that no records of the matter will be retained. Anxiety on these scores is much increased by the Special Branch's involvement in political matters and especially by its duty under the Police Commissioner's directive to be aware of subversion. Even if the citizen can form some idea of what this vague expression means, he is likely to be' suspicious concerning the ability of those operating the Branch to distinguish between subversion and ordinary dissent from prevailing policies or established ideas. 
This is the point which has been made on innumerable occasions in the literature about the chilling psychological effect of the knowledge of the existence of surveillance activity, particularly on the large scale contemplated by this legislation. That is why it is important that these powers ought not to be exercised unless the Minister has given careful and detailed consideration to their implications and their necessity in a particular case. The language of our amendment about which  Senator Puplick  expressed some reservations is drawn again directly from the language of the recommendations of the Australian Law Reform Commission in its second report on criminal investigation. In the context of  the Commission's discussion on the exercise of powers of surveillance by the police, at page 107 of its report the Commissioner stated that the authorisation, giving or granting of warrants for the exercise of surveillance powers should 'only be available when other investigative procedures have been tried and failed or would be impracticable'. 
Consideration interrupted. 
Will the Attorney-General acknowledge that probity and integrity of a high order are required of any appointee to the High Court? In this regard, is the Minister aware of the allegations made by the Honourable Fred Daly in the  National Times of 2  April 1979 in respect of  Mr R.  J. Ellicott and his behaviour in December 1 972 when occupying the position of Solicitor-General of the Commonwealth? Is the Minister aware that it has been alleged by  Mr Daly  that  Mr Ellicott  intervened in the counting of the ballot for the seat of Parramatta, giving legal advice to the returning officer for that division in respect of the validity of certain postal votes, which advice had the effect of favouring the position of the Liberal Party candidate-- 
On the point of order, the question is being asked not directly in the context of  Mr Ellicott  's integrity but rather in the context of the administration of the Attorney-General's Department and the decision that is about to be made by the Attorney-General on behalf of his Department to make an appointment to the High Court. It is squarely in the context of the administration of the Attorney-General's Department that I ask the question. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 8 March 1 979: 
1 ) Has the report of the Emergency Relief Study undertaken by the Attorney-General's Department in conjunction with the Australian Council of Social Services been completed: if so: (a) why has it not yet been released; and (b) when will it be. 
Did the Prime Minister promise in 1977 to put aside money to assist welfare organisations which are providing financial support to people in dire financial need; if so, what sum has been made available for this purpose. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. 1 refer him to the resolutions of the Australian Constitutional Convention held in July last year which were tabled in Parliament last week. Given that the Government has now had 10 months to consider its position, what is the Government's attitude to the holding of referendums on the three specific Federal jurisdiction amendments which were adopted by that convention? Further, does the Government support the holding of another session of the Constitutional Convention either in Adelaide later this year, as was proposed last year, or at some other time and place? 
-Lest silence be taken as consent to the last contribution by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  let me say, on behalf of the Opposition and as the mover of this amendment, that the Attorney-General's speech represents what I can regard only as a quite deliberate, and for that reason, disgraceful misrepresentation of the effect of the Bill as it stands. Generally speaking, the Bill does, as the Minister said, vest specific functions in the Director-General as to the matters of detailed administration for which the Act provides, leaving the Minister's role as one of general accountability, one hopes, for what the Director-General and the officers of the organisation do. True enough, overall that is the scheme of the Bill, but this Division of the Bill at which we are looking now- Division 2 of Part III- the special powers division of the Bill- does not operate that way. This division, with the exception of the emergency power provision- let us leave that to one side and deal with it when we come to it- operates quite explicitly and directly to vest powers not in the Director-General, with only a supervisory role for the Minister, but in the Minister himself. The way the Bill is cast at the moment, a direct statutory responsibility to make decisions about the issuing of these warrants and actually to issue the warrants is vested in the Minister himself. Under those circumstances, it is incumbent upon this Parliament to be satisfied that the guidelines provided in the Bill as to the way in which the Minister does exercise those powers are in fact satisfactory and do spell out all the considerations which should be present to the Minister's mind. 
What does the Bill do in this respect and what does it not do? Clearly, what it does not do, and what this amendment is designed to correct, is to specify quite directly and explicitly some of the, as it were, civil libertarian considerations which ought to be present in the Minister's mind before issuing warrants of the draconian effect that these warrants over search and seizure powers, inspection of the mails and the installation of listening devices actually represent. The clauses of the Bill dealing with the Minister's power and responsibilities in this respect do not spell out any requirement at all that the Minister pay regard to the competing considerations of civil liberties, or that the citizen not be unnecessarily subjected to harassment by these surveillance and investigatory techniques. The Bill is entirely silent on that question. It may be that a Minister ofthe day would pay attention to those considerations, but the Bill does not require him to do so, and we say that the Bill ought to contain a requirement to that effect. What the Bill does in respect of each of these warrants is to impose certain criteria of a different kind about which the Minister has to be satisfied. For example, clause 24 ( 1 ) relating to the issue of search warrants states: 
Where, upon receipt by the Minister of a request by the Director-General Tor the issue of a warrant under this section, the Minister is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that there are in any premises any records without access to which by the Organization the collection of intelligence by the Organization in accordance with this Act in respect of a matter that is important in relation to security would bc seriously impaired, the Minister may, by warrant under his hand, authorise the Organization to do such of the following acts- 
Various acts are then set out. The Bill, as it stands at the moment, requires the Minister to direct his mind specifically to certain facts such as whether there are on premises records of the kind in which the Organization has an interest and whether there are reasonable grounds supporting the assertions put to him by the DirectorGeneral. That is as far as the Bill goes. It specifies certain things about which the Minister should be satisfied on reasonable grounds but it stops there. That is important to bear in mind for two reasons: One is the mere fact that the Bill states that the Minister should take these considerations, but no others into account. That might be construed by the Minister of the day as a statutory direction that he take only these considerations into account and not concern himself with other considerations of principle or civil liberty. It is the expressio unius principle if the AttorneyGeneral is familiar with that concept. That is one thing to bear in mind about the operation of this clause as it stands. It is important that that set of directions as to what he should take into account be balanced by the other directions which we say he should take into account. 
The second and final thing to notice about the operation of this clause is that as it stands at the moment it already imposes significantly onerous burdens upon the Attorney of the day. He is not sitting in his office, as he may prefer to do, acting as a rubber stamp approving the requests for warrants pushed to him by the Director-General of the day. He is given the function of addressing his mind to whether there are reasonable grounds for the Organization's belief in the existence of these records and their necessity to be obtained for intelligence purposes. One would have thought that any responsible Attorney would respond to that statutory obligation by treating the responsibility vested in him by that language as a very serious one, giving it detailed and proper consideration and making an informed decision only if he feels properly informed on that basis because of that obligation. 
What I am trying to say in a nutshell is that the Bill, as it stands at the moment, imposes onerous obligations on a Minister who would be acting in breach of the responsibilities cast upon him by the Bill if he ignored the requirements that he pay attention to these considerations. Surely it is only just, proper, correct and sensible that in all the circumstances the Bill should take the small additional step, which the Minister has said that in practice he will take anyway, and satisfy himself about the civil liberties implications of the step in question. We say that the Bill should take that extra step and require the Minister to pay attention to additional considerations which could very easily form part of the material in short compass that is put before him by the Organisation. He should accept the requirement in the way the Bill is drawn that he also pay attention to these considerations. That is not an excessively onerous burden. If he is not prepared to accept it, he should relinquish his portfolio. 
I move: 
Page 1 1, clause 25, sub-clause (6), line 2, leave out '6 months', insert '90 days'. 
The effect of this amendment is to substitute the expression '90 days' for the time period of 6 months which presently  operates  in clause 25 in respect of listening devices. It will be appreciated that this is an amendment of relatively limited effect. The Opposition has been prepared to accept the notion that in appropriate circumstances the installation of listening devices is one of the weapons that might properly be employed in securing the security of the nation. I must confess that it is an approach that the Opposition is becoming steadily less inclined to accept as the evening wears on and the Attorney-General's and the Government's recalcitrance becomes more and more apparent in respect of what we have been insisting throughout this debate are necessary and proper safeguards which must govern the exercise of these extremely wideranging powers. 
Nonetheless, we do pursue the particularly moderate amendment that we have tabled. The effect of it is to bring the time period in respect of listening devices back into line with that which is specified in the Bill itself in respect of the interception of postal articles, the warrants for which are limited to 90 days' duration by virtue of the operation of clause 26 (4) of the Bill. I foreshadow now that it is our intention to move an amendment to the appropriate provisions of the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill and to limit there the period in respect of which telephone taps can be applied, again back from 6 months to 90 days. The arguments in support of this amendment are essentially those which the Opposition has already articulated in respect of the previous amendment before us, namely, the proposed new clause 23A. 
In essence the central argument is that the powers in question, and in particular, of course, the powers to install a listening device, are draconic ones of potentially extremely farreaching application. In speaking in support of clause 23a I indicated what our state of knowledge is about the likely number of persons and conversations that might be expected to be picked up and recorded if clauses like this are to become law and listening devices are to be installed and telephones tapped as a routine investigative device by the security services. We are not talking simply of dozens of people or even scores of people but are talking about each year thousands of people and scores of thousands of different conversations being intercepted and recorded by the security service, with all the implications that that state of affairs has for the condition of privacy and the condition of civil liberty in this country. I think the points have been made adequately under previous clauses without the necessity to repeat them here. 
Might I add again, repeating the kind of argument that  Senator Tate  outlined so effectively tonight, that our insistence upon amendments of this kind becomes the more acute the more the Government retreats from an acceptance of the other safeguard mechanisms that we have been proposing throughout. Our worry about the misapplication of the listening device warrant power becomes so much more acute by virtue of the rejection which the Government has just made of our proposed new clause 23a which would at least have had the effect of ensuring that listening devices were not installed until other less extreme investigative measures had been employed and found wanting or impracticable. The Government's unwillingness to accept any threshold requirement of this kind means that measures such as listening device warrants will not become investigative measures of last resort as the Opposition would wish but routine measures of first resort. That consideration makes it so much more important that within the text of the description in the Bill of these powers themselves there be some greater degree of safeguard governing their exercise than appears in the Bill at the moment. 
As I have indicated the amendment that we seek in respect of clause 25 is a relatively moderate one. We are not insisting that listening devices not be installed at all. We are not insisting that they be installed only for periods of one week, 48 hours or 24 hours. We acknowledge that the logistical difficulties associated with the use of these devices necessitates reasonably that they have some period of operation if they are perhaps to be effective at all in securing the legitimate ends for which they might be employed. But we take the view that a period of 90 days or three months- a period which the Government has itself employed in respect of certain other classes of special powers, in particular, the power relating to the interception of postal articles- as the initial maximum period is a period which the Government ought to be prepared to accept as a proper limitation on the perhaps casual, cavalier or unthinking exercise of these powers. 
All that this amendment would do would be to force a reappraisal of the necessity, the efficacy or the desirability of the agency employing the technique in question when a period of three months had expired. We do not seek to make it impossible for a warrant to be renewed for a further period after the initial 90 days. We appreciate that there may be circumstances in which the Minister, on reasonable grounds on the material that is put before him by the Director-General, can be satisfied that there is a basis for such an extension. All we argue for is the incorporation of a provision, in this case an amendment, which guarantees that the ministerial mind shall be focused upon the arguments for and against the issue and continuance of the issuing of the particular kind of warrant and that the warrants shall not routinely become applicable for periods as long as six months, which one rather suspects is the case at the moment under the existing telephone tapping legislation. 
There are, of course, many who may think that an amendment of this kind does not go far enough in respect of a clause as enormously wide reaching as clause 25 is in respect of listening devices. I can well understand that reaction. I can particularly understand that reaction in the light of what is fast becoming apparent as an exhaustion of any willingness on the part of the Minister or on the part of the Government to take seriously the Opposition's amendments which are tabled and remain to be debated. It has become apparent already from the Minister's attitude in his contribution tonight that the Government is no longer prepared to even maintain the pretence of a bipartisan approach, if one was ever possible, to this legislation. 1 fully endorse the earlier remarks of  Senator Mason  in this respect. 
As  Senator Button  and others have indicated in the course of this debate, throughout the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation debate, as long and grinding as it may have been, the Opposition has adopted a moderate, positive, responsible attitude to this legislation. It would have been very easy and perhaps would have satisfied expectations in certain quarters of the community had we simply retreated to histrionics and to a general rejection of this legislation and all its works. We have not adopted that attitude at any stage. We have taken the legislation as being a necessary evil and have directed all our amendments to the area of improving that legislation and surrounding it and permeating it with the kind of safeguards which would make it, whilst still workable and serving its purpose, nonetheless legislation which is not fraught with the possibility of misuse in the way which was so obviously the case with the previous legislation. 
If the Government is to persist and the Minister is to persist with the kind of attitude he demonstrated earlier tonight, the Opposition can hardly be blamed- I hope this will not be the case; it is certainly not the case in any of the amendments which remain to be considered- if it retreats from the constructive position it has adopted so far to a position of negative intransigence in the face of the Government's attitude. Bearing those considerations in mind, whatever the Minister's previous disposition may have been when he came into the chamber tonight about accepting the Opposition's amendments, might I urge him to consider seriously and carefully once more the Opposition's amendments and, in particular, the amendment to clause 25 which is before him now. 
I move this further amendment to clause 28: 
Page 13. clause 28. sub-clause ( I ), line 27. leave out 'the Director-General may', insert 'the Minister may orally authorise the Director-General to '. 
The effect of this amendment, which is a significant one, is clearly to remove the decisionmaking power in respect of the issue of emergency warrants from the Director-General and place it clearly and squarely, here, as elsewhere, with the Minister. 
There are two considerations which one needs to tackle in dealing with this clause and the proposed Opposition amendment. One is a consideration of principle, the other is a consideration of practicality. On the question of principle, the Opposition takes the view that here in the context of emergency warrants, as elsewhere, the requirement must be one of accountability by the Minister himself. The concept, even for a short time- 48 hours- of a mere official, unaccountable to the Parliament, not an official of judicial stature, having the power to himself, without reference, to, or authority from, anyone else, to issue warrants of the kind in issue under this Division, is a prospect which is alarming and one to which this Senate ought to give no countenance whatsoever, unless perhaps it is persuaded that overwhelming considerations of practicality demand a deviation from this central principle of ministerial accountability which the Government has adopted and which, generally speaking, the Opposition has accepted. 
With respect,  Senator Cavanagh,  I do not think so. I think it is possible for the clause to operate as it has been drafted and indeed as it is proposed to be amended, because at least as I read it all that those preliminary clauses are, one of which has just been amended by the Government, is a series of preconditions which have to be satisfied in one way or another before a warrant can be issued by the Minister or the Director-General, as the case may be. The first pre-condition is that there has been a request generated, if we can use a neutral word, by the Director-General, whether or not that request actually has been received by the Minister. The second pre-condition that has to be satisfied- this is sub-clause (l)(b)- is that the Minister has not, to the knowledge of the Director-General, at any time in the previous three months issued or refused to issue a warrant as a result of that particular request. The third pre-condition is that the Director-General himself, exercising presumably these emergency powers, has not, within the preceding period of three months, issued a substantially similar warrant. They are all pre-conditions which have to be satisfied, as the clause now stands, before the Director-General himself can proceed to issue an emergency warrant. 
The effect of the Opposition amendment is not now to change those pre-conditions but rather to change the personality or the identity of the person whose decision it actually is. What we are saying is that the authorisation for the issue of a warrant, even in emergency circumstances, must come directly from the Minister rather than be a function which can be exercised by the Director-General. 
What about the question of practicality which I have no doubt will be argued by the AttorneyGeneral in response to this suggestion? What about the supposed demands of urgency which are built into the very operation of this clause and which, it may be suggested by the Government, are such as to make it far too cumbersome for even the oral authorisation by the Minister to be a pre-condition of the exercise of this power? In answer to that proposition which we will no doubt hear from the Minister, 1 make the following points: Firstly, we are not talking here or anywhere else in the Bill about the detection or prevention of criminal offences by anyone. The kind of circumstance which is likely to spring to the mind of a casual reader as justifying the issue of an emergency warrant may be the notification of the presence of a bomb in premises or another circumstance which justifies an urgent reaction by the organisation in question. But we are not dealing here with the detection or prevention of criminal offences; we are simply dealing with the gathering of intelligence. The requirements of urgency that are generally associated with the gathering of intelligence, in my submission at least, are likely to be very much narrower in practice than those associated with the requirements of urgency if we are actually seeking to prevent something taking place which is criminal or physically dangerous to the health or life of the populace. There is ample power elsewhere in the statute book and in the common law for the police agencies to react in the case of bomb scares and so on. Those considerations do not bear upon the operation of this Bill at all, certainly not on this particular clause. 
The second point to make about the argument of practicality is that there are already a number of time consuming constraints on the exercise of the power in question here by the DirectorGeneral. By spelling out a few moments ago the pre-conditions which have to be satisfied before this clause can operate, I indicated what those constraints are. They are not something which develops out of the blue and which demand a reaction by the Director-General without any foreknowledge or forewarning or the possibility of any prior preparation by the Director-General or the organisation to deal with the situation thus arising out of the blue. It cannot be that sort of situation to which this clause is directed. The whole make-up of the clause, as it stands at the moment, pre-supposes that a course of events has taken place before the warrant is issued. A formal request- one presumes that it is in writing or at least the product of some preparation- has to have been generated or initiated already by the Director-General before this clause can operate and before the Director-General can have the power to issue a warrant physically off his own bat. An application has to be made to the Minister. That is the subject matter of clause 28(1) (a). A cumbersome, onerous, physical pre-condition is already built into the clause. 
The second example of these constraints already being embodied in the Bill is the requirement in clause 28 that a warrant actually be issued physically by the Director-General before the powers can be exercised. Someone at least has to take the time and trouble to prepare and endorse the piece of paper that constitutes the warrant. Realistically speaking, a variety of conditions already has to be satisfied before the power can be exercised. Bearing those considerations in mind detracts from any argument that here we are talking about a sequence of events which arise out of the blue and have to be reacted to within a matter of minutes if the exercise of the power in question is to have any utility. That cannot be the situation to which this clause is directed. As it is drafted, it is a very cumbersome procedure. All we are trying to do in respect of the existing cumbersome procedure for emergency warrants is to ensure that authority from or at least actual contact with the Minister is not bypassed. 
When warrants are required in an emergency there ought to be, here as elsewhere, a requirement that the Minister be actually contacted, albeit by telephone or some other mechanism of that kind, and that he be empowered in circumstances of emergency to authorise orally the Director-General to issue the warrant rather than, as is required in non-emergency situations, the Minister having physically to issue the warrant himself. We appreciate that situations may arise in which physically obtaining a warrant from the Minister may create difficulties because of time factors, but we do not see that there are insuperable difficulties in at least requiring as a further pre-condition of the issuing of emergency warrants that oral authority be actually obtained from the Minister. I do not believe and the Opposition does not believe that in this day and age contact with the Minister is impossible or even very difficult to arrange. If it means that the Minister whenever he is out of the country has to nominate some other Minister to act in his stead and be available as an avenue of contact in situations of potential emergency, so be it. That is a familiar way of organising ministerial affairs anyway. Acting Ministers are so appointed. There will always be within the country some individual capable of responding to emegency requests under this clause. 
If it is argued that even that condition imposes acute difficulties in practice because the Minister may have gone fishing or something ofthe kind, we say that again the condition of modern technology is hardly such as to make that an insuperable burden. We see no particular difficulty in the Minister's movements being able to be readily tracked most of the time so that he is physically readily contactable. If it means that when he goes out in the bay fishing or does whatever he does in his very considerable spare time in the administration of his portfolio he has to carry with him a radio telephone or something of that kind, so be it. That is the kind of constraint which we regard as a minor practical price to pay for the maintenance of this quite crucial principle to which I now return: When we are exercising powers of this sweeping, Draconic and potentially privacy-invading kind- we have spoken about them at length before- we have to be sure that if they are not to be exercised on the authority of a judge, which many people regard as the desirable way of doing things, at least they are exercised by an elected Minister of the Crown who is directly and personally accountable to the Parliament. It is for those reasons that we urge that the Government accept this amendment and modify these emergency powers accordingly. 
-Tempted as I may be to take this opportunity to sling off once more at  Senator Puplick,  let me nonetheless exercise some restraint in that respect and simply deal with his argument.  His  argument seemed to be that the Opposition's amendment was creating more difficulties than it was solving, and the particular difficulty that seemed to occupy  Senator Puplick  's mind is, as he put it, the difficulty of testing, should it ever come in issue after the event, whether or not an oral authorisation was in fact given by the Minister in question. As to that, let me reply in this way. It is not difficult to devise machinery to foreclose the possibility of there being serious argument of that kind. Such machinery in fact has been devised and was recommended by the Law Reform Commission in its 1975 criminal investigation report in relation to the authorisation of search warrants by telephone applications to a magistrate and telephone authority from that magistrate. The machinery that is built into the Law Reform Commission recommendationindeed embodied in the draft Criminal Investigation Bill attached to it- is for the warrant or other appropriate documentation so issued to be endorsed or certified by the magistrate after the event when the piece of paper comes to him, such certification stating that the oral authorisation was given on the day and the hour in question. Applying that kind of machinery to the present situation, it would equally be possible to devise and incorporate in the legislation by way of amendment some machinery whereby the Minister certified after the event- and very shortly after the event- that the oral authorisation had in fact been made. One would think that that kind of machinery would deal entirely with the kind of worries that were pressing upon  Senator Puplick. 
The Opposition considered when drafting its amendment whether such elaborate certification machinery in fact should be incorporated into this clause. We decided that, on balance, it was probably unnecessary. The basis upon which we made that decision was essentially that it can be assumed, one hopes, that neither the Minister nor the Director-General will be temped actually to lie about an issue as to the date or time or in fact whether an oral authorisation was given. On balance we take the view that whatever misjudgments Ministers or Directors-General of the day might be capable of, which need to be guarded against by other provisions in this legislation, on the whole we do not really think that they are the kind of office holders who will ever be in a position of directly lying on a matter as blatant, as obvious and as crucial as this. Bearing in mind the kind of office bearers we are talking about and the kind of general responsibilities that they have, it seemed to us unnecessary :o go to the lengths which nonetheless I have suggested are possible. If  Senator Puplick  is not disposed to share my confidence in the unlikeliness of Ministers and Directors-General lying, he might at least be prepared to accept some appropriately drafted machinery of the kind that I have mentioned. In either event, I put it to him that his objection is ill-founded or at least is capable of being answered. 
Consideration interrupted. 
-On behalf of  Senator Sibraa,  I present the following petition from 80 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizensof Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-There is a further question that arises now with respect to clause 34 that I wish to bring to the Attorney's attention. It goes to the definition of 'security assessment ' in this clause where it is stated that:  security assessment' or 'assessment' means a statement in writing furnished by the Organization to a Commonwealth agency expressing any recommendation, opinion . . . 
Does that mean what it appears to mean, namely, that the only kind of communication which will count as a security assessment for the purposes of this part of the Bill is a communication which is in writing? Is it the case that an oral communication that might be made by the Director-General of Security or someone acting on his behalf to a particular agency conveying some opinion about a person's security status will not amount to a security assessment for the purposes of this Bill and therefore not bring into play the appellate procedures which are specified in Part IV? If it is the case that oral communications- communications which are not in writing- are not such as to bring into play the appeal tribunal provisions of this Bill it would appear to be a very serious deficiency indeed in the way the Bill is constructed. It would appear to necessitate further amendment, namely, the deletion of those words 'in writing'. Before moving such an amendment could I seek the Attorney's response to that question. 
I readily accept that proposed new clause 38a will go a great deal of the way towards meeting the kind of problem to which  Senator Elstob  was referring in the context of security assessments provided to States or State authorities. However, as I understood  Senator Elstob  's remarks, they were not by any means solely directed to that situation. They were directed rather to the provision of security assessments to employers in the private sector in particular, who are outside the context of the description 'State authorities' or 'State governments'. Indeed, in many instances they are also outside the description of prescribed administrative action at the Commonwealth level. 
I appreciate that if the Attorney-General is minded to take the point that Commonwealth contractors and employees of Commonwealth contractors are to some extent caught within the description of prescribed administrative action, employees of Commonwealth contractors accordingly would retain their appeal rights, as the Bill is now drawn. I appreciate that the definition which applies at the moment in the Bill is a fairly wide-ranging one and preserves a wide range of appeal rights. I also appreciate, as I indicated a moment ago, that proposed new clause 38a will extend that to some extent into the State arena. But there remains the problem to which  Senator Elstob  has adverted of security assessments being provided by Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to private sector employers who at the time the assessment is provided do not satisfy the description of Commonwealth contractors. I understood the Attorney-General in his remarks of 5 April, which are set out on page 1398 of  Hansard,  to be acknowledging that security assessments might be provided from time to time outside the immediate range of situations to which Part IV of the Bill is specifically addressed. I understood him to be acknowledging that that might arise in the private sector situation to which I have referred as well as in the State situation to which he has confined himself in his reply. So the point does remain that there are some potential areas in which security assessments could be provided which would not give rise to appeal procedures under this Bill. 
-With respect,  Mr Minister,  I am not sure that it does, lt might be an extreme or an isolated occasion, but nonetheless it would appear to be possible under the powers vested in the agency in clause 17 to communicate intelligence for purposes relevant to security. Bearing in mind the width of the definition of security earlier in the Bill, which includes terrorism as well as subversion, it would appear to be possible and within the agency's power, if the mood so struck, to communicate security assessment information directly to a private employer who was not a Commonwealth contractor. It seems possible for such information to be communicated, albeit that is not one of the more likely or routine ways in which the agency would be likely to exercise its power. Nonetheless, it is a possible way of exercising the power of communicating security assessments. To the extent that it is possible for prejudicial information of this kind to be communicated to a private employer, the only point that  Senator Elstob  has been making is surely that under those circumstances should not an appeal also lie in that situation? It may be that that is misreading the powers. It may be that a provision is buried away in the Bill which prohibits such a communication at the Director-General's discretion directly to a private employer not being a Commonwealth contractor. If that is so, if the Attorney would tell us about it, we will not pursue the argument any further. 
-The comments made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  may have answered  Senator Elstob  's last point, but F am not sure that he has answered my point about a direct communication to the private sector employer other than in the form of a communication that would constitute prescribed administrative action' within that definition. I am asking the Attorney to acknowledge that 'prescribed administrative action', although it may be wide ranging, is not wide ranging enough to cover a situation of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation communicating to some private sector employer that there is a potential terrorist risk in the form of one of its employees. I do not want an answer which relates to a situation where there is a question of access to Commonwealth places involved, a situation where that private employer is a Commonwealth contractor or a situation where that employer is in any way an official governmental agency, either Commonwealth or State. I am asking the Attorney to address his mind to that small segment of the problem which does not appear to be covered by the Act at the moment. 
-This is an important point. I am sorry to labour it.  Senator Elstob  raised it, and it deserves a more serious reply, with respect, than the one which was just given by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack ). The situation being put to the Attorney is that where the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation not merely possesses information about someone but communicates it to a private employer- we are taking just that narrow situation- and the effect of that communication is to prejudice the employee in his occupation with that employer, where there is prejudice of that kind occurring, there ought to be a right of appeal in exactly the same way as the Bill elsewhere provides a right of appeal for situations where a Commonwealth employee is the subject of such a communication by the organisation or all the other changes which are run by the Act. The situations included here cover ones where the employee in question is the employee of a Commonwealth contractor. 
All we are saying is that the principle of allowing an appeal where persons are prejudiced by adverse assessments or communications in the nature of assessments should be continued. That principle has been readily accepted elsewhere in the Bill. Would not the Attorney be prepared to contemplate changing the Bill further to cover that one extra corner- a potential situationwhich seems until now, until  Senator Elstob  raised it, to have eluded everybody's attention. 
If the Bill gives an appeal right in respect of someone who is an employee of a private sector Commonwealth contractor, where there has been an adverse security assessment affecting that employee, what is the problem, either in practice or in principle, which inhibits the Government from giving a similar appeal right in those odd situations where there may be a similar communication to a private sector employer who does not happen to be a Commonwealth contractor? What is so magic about one's status as a Commonwealth contractor? Did  Mr Justice  Hope direct himself specifically to that problem? If so, what was the distinction he was able to seize upon which justified a right of appeal being given in the case of a contractor but not in the case of a non-contractor? 
-In the interests of moving this discussion along, let me confine this last contribution to just a couple of sentences. I am indebted to  Senator Missen  for drawing attention to that section of  Mr Justice  Hope's report in which  His  Honour confronted these problems. But I note that among the problems that  Mr Justice  Hope put in the 'too hard' basket was the matter of communications by the Commonwealth to State authorities which would have the effect of prejudicing State and local government employees. The particular problem to which  Mr Justice  Hope did not find himself able to recommend a solution has apparently proved itself not to be beyond the Commonwealth Government's resources of ingenuity because that is exactly the situation that is attempted to be dealt with in the proposed new clause 38a. AH we are asking for is that the Commonwealth exercise perhaps just a little bit more ingenuity and consider the possibility of a further amendment to deal with that residual situation. Accordingly, I move: 
That further consideration of clause 34. as amended, bc postponed. 
I do so in order to enable an appropriate amendment to be prepared to cover the matters which we have been dealing with relating to the definition of 'prescribed administrative action' and security assessment'. 
-by leave- I move: 
Page 17, clause 37, sub-clause (2), paragraph (a), lines 6 to 8, leave out the paragraph. 
Page 17, clause 37, sub-clause (4), lines 16 to 18, leave out the sub-clause. 
This is the famous  Catch 22  clause. The amendments that I have just moved will have the effect of deleting paragraph (a) of sub-clause (2) and sub-clause (4). The substance of the clause as it presently stands is to make it possible for the Attorney-General to certify in particular situations that the subject matter as such is so security sensitive that the person who is on the victim end of an adverse security assessment should not be entitled to be furnished with a copy of that assessment. The result following inexorably from that is that he then has no rights of appeal at all. If, under the structure of this whole Part of the Bill, as the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has been at pains to point out, it is interconnected, the provision of a right of appeal, under Part IV, depends upon there being furnished to the person in question a copy of the assessment in question. Where that assessment is not furnished to the person in question, where he is not notified of the existence of the security assessment, if the substance of that security assessment is not disclosed, he is in the position of not having a right of appeal at all. 
That is a bizarre situation. It is, as has been quite properly described in the media and by many commentators, as a  Catch 22  situation. If a person is a security risk, he does not get notified about the existence of an adverse security report and, if he does not get notified about the adverse security report against him, he cannot appeal against the adverse security report having been made in the first instance. This is a situation which appears, on the face of it, to be quite intolerable. It means that a whole class of persons, namely those persons in respect of whom the Attorney-General is prepared to certify that the withholding of notification is essential to security, is affected by the operation of ASIO and has no right of appeal. The only possible argument one can imagine for the retention of this provision is one which I expect we will hear falling from the Attorney's lips in a few moments to the effect that situations may arise where it is inappropriate, impracticable - 
-. . . or dangerous to the interests ofthe nation for the person in question to be tipped off about the existence of ASIO interests in him or the existence of an adverse security report about him. No doubt it will be put to us that situations arise from time to time in which spies or other security risks or subversives are moleing their way into government organisations of one kind or another, about whose existence ASIO knows but whom it does not want to alert, for the moment anyway, to the existence of ASIO knowledge about them. It is suggested that perhaps this is the sort of situation in which an adverse security assessment in respect of a person ought not to be notified to that person. I suggest that there is a relatively easy way out of that situation which would be quite practicable in nearly all the circumstances one could imagine. It is simply for ASIO to keep silent, keep its knowledge to itself, maintain its own scrutiny over the person in question- or the sleeper, if one wants to describe him in that way- and not furnish an adverse security report to anyone about him. I suggest that that relatively straightforward solution to the dilemma with which the AttorneyGeneral will no doubt confront us in a few moments is one that satisfactorily resolves nearly all the situations of a security sensitive kind which were perhaps in the mind of the draftsmen putting in this clause. 
It might, however, be further argued- I am anticipating once again what appear to be the most likely objections to the Opposition's argument in this respect- that there may be some situations in which it is not good enough for ASIO simply to keep silent and not communicate to anyone its suspicions, concerns or information about the person in question. It might be suggested that there are situations in which it is necessary for ASIO to tip off the organisation or department in question in order that the person, albeit without him knowning what is going on, may be denied access to particularly security sensitive information or be denied some promotion into a high security risk job. If that is the level of the claim on which this whole clause depends that in turn is a situation which it is not necessary to provide for in the way in which this Catch 22 clause does. 
I suggest that that sort of situation in which it is necessary in order to stop some promotion being made or some information being supplied to the person who is a security risk but who it is not desired for the moment to tip-off is already provided for in clause 38 (2) of the Bill. That enables the Organisation in a temporary situation ofthe kind described in that clause to take action of a temporary nature to prevent access by persons to any information or place pending the ultimate furnishing of a report to the agency or department in question. One would not wish to see clause 38 (2) misused in any way but it would be within the spirit of the Bill and potential operation of that clause for it to be applied in the kind of situation to which I have referred. 
I am trying to anticipate what will no doubt be claimed to be the justifications for the Catch 22 clause- the provision that a person not be notified about the existence of a security report if the Attorney-General certifies that the situation is one of a grave security risk. I have attempted to identify the kinds of arguments which perhaps will be used in justification of that clause and indicate that there is no real foundation for them. To the extent that exotic situations might arise from time to time when it is necessary for the organisation to act in a circumspect way and not notify the person of the existence of information or adverse reports about him, one can readily think of ways in which the Bill could operate so as to enable those situations to be dealt with. 
The remaining point that needs to be made about clause 37 as it presently stands and operating as it does to deny a whole class of persons an appeal in situations in which the AttorneyGeneral certifies that those persons cannot have an appeal is that it offends very obviously against the International Labour Organisation Convention to which  Senator Elstob  referred. The Attorney did not seem to be especially disposed to take the existence of ILO Convention 1 1 1 very seriously when we were discussing it a few minutes ago. Perhaps he will be prepared to take it a little more seriously in this context. Convention 1 1 1 which concerns discrimination in respect of employment and occupation provides in Article 4, as  Senator Elstob  said, as follows: 
Any measures affecting an individual who is justifiably suspected of, or engaged in, activities prejudicial to the security of the State shall not be deemed to be discrimination. provided that the individual concerned shall have the right to appeal to a competent body established in accordance with national practice. 
The Convention recognises a legitimate ground of exception from its general operation where security matters are an issue provided that there is a right of appeal. What 1 am putting to the Government is that the operation of clause 37 allowing the Attorney-General in effect to certify that no appeal shall lie in a particular case is on its face blatantly offensive to Article 4 of the Convention to which Australia is a signatory. It will get Australia into a great deal of trouble in international forums if clause 37 is persisted with in the form in which it presently comes before this House. 
I understand that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  indicated his attitude in relation to the amendments which I moved. However he was intending to consider overnight some points raised by Senators Missen and Puplick and said that he would advise the Senate accordingly. We await his reply with interest. 
I am indebted to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  for that undertaking which, however, deals only with the subject matter of clause 57 ( 1 ) (b). He has not addressed himself, in his reply, to my remarks in relation to the effect of the conclusive certification of material that is sensitive by virtue of satisfying the description in sub-clause ( 1 ) (a). Could he possibly extend his reply and say something equally persuasive about that paragraph? 
I support the remarks of  Senator Button  and  Senator Tate  on this clause, although I must confess that  Senator Tate's  speculations about human fallibility and the demands of conscience upon Ministers may well have hindered somewhat rather than helped the clause of this argument. I rise only to ask the Attorney one short question. The Attorney said that this provision in this clause ensures that the Leader of the Opposition will not be treated any differently from the Minister. I ask the Attorney: Does this mean that the consultation provisions that were earlier written into the Bill by way of new clause 20A are now not to be taken seriously? Insofar as the legislation lacked any such provision which is now to be contained in this clause does this mean that the Leader of the Opposition is not to be treated, for the purpose of those consultations, in the same way as the Minister of the day in that he will not be given by the Director-General any security sensitive information? 
I regret once again to have to draw to the attention of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  the fact that he has not addressed his mind to one of the major elements in the Opposition's amendment. The particular element I am talking about is the proposal to delete existing sub-clause (2). I do not know whether this is because the Attorney does not understand or cannot understand, whether he disagrees or just was not listening. This is the umpteenth time that he has not answered propositions of this kind. 
I seek leave to move together proposed new clauses 92a and 92B, both of which have been circulated. 
I will make my shortest contribution to the entire debate. The Opposition supports  Senator Missen  's amendment, for the reasons which he has outlined. 
-The Opposition is awaiting a response from the Attorney-General. We would be delighted now to hear it. 
My question is directed to  Senator Durack  in his capacity as AttorneyGeneral and as Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations. In view of yesterday's dismissal by the Federal Court of Australia of the Industrial Relations Bureau prosecution of the Melbourne City Council in the Kane case and also the pending challenge to the constitutionality of the IRB legislation in the High Court of Australia, will the Government now acknowledge that the legislation has been not only counter-productive to industrial harmony but also quite impotent to serve the purposes the Government intended for it? Under the circumstances, when will the Government end the whole charade and act to put  Mr Linehan  and everybody else out of their collective misery by repealing this absurd and dangerous legislation? 
I am indebted to  Senator Missen  for his kind reference, which is particularly welcome in the light of the sniping and snarling which seems to have been going on between the two of us in other contexts in the last few days. This report entitled  Reforming the Law ' is indeed an important one. I hope that the Parliament and the Government will give it close and careful attention. It concerns itself with the whole question of the machinery of law reform in Australia. It embodies 25 separate explicit recommendations directed, as  Senator Missen  said, to three distinct subject areas: Firstly, the implementation of the reports of the Australian Law Reform Commission; secondly, the collection and assessment of suggestions for law reform, wherever they may arise; and thirdly, the very difficult question of the coordination of the work of law reform as between the many different agencies around the country which are responsible for it. 
Without by any means canvassing at any length the substance of the report as a whole, let me however indicate briefly what are the most important aspects of the report under each of those three heads. As to the implementation of the reports of the Australian Law Reform Commission, the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs has noted that the Commission has now produced six major reports since its establishment in early 1975, only two of which have so far in fact been implemented- and those two only in the Australian Capital Territory. The report on criminal investigation produced in 1975 is one of those which regrettably has still not seen the light of legislative day. The failure to implement reports of the Commission has not yet reached, it must be conceded, the alarming dimensions which have been experienced in this respect in a number of other jurisdictions in Australia; nonetheless the Committee believes it to be important that the Executive should be under some institutional pressure both to make up its mind promptly as to what it proposes to do about Commission reports and then actually to do it. 
After considering a variety of suggested alternative forms of institutional machinery the Committee has come down on the side of establishing a formal system whereby all reports from the Commission when tabled are immediately referred for scrutiny and report to an appropriate parliamentary committee, which committee would then exercise not only the function of reporting to the Parliament on its attitudes and reactions to the report but also a general watching brief over the subsequent progress of the proposals. In particular what would be accomplished by this would be to lock in, as it were, the reports of the Commission into the procedure we presently have whereby the Executive is positively obliged to respond to committee proposals within six months of their being made. 
The only other thing I wish to mention under this head about implementing Law Reform Commission proposals is that in the report we suggest in addition a variety of consultative arrangements which should take place involving both departmental officials and the political wing of government in order to ensure that both the departmental and political attitudes are fully taken into account in the generation of law reform proposals and that we avoid that endless second guessing, that dogged reinventing of the wheel as the report puts it, which has so often been a characteristic of the treatment of Law Reform agency reports after they have actually been put down, with the result that the expertise and time that have been spent by the law reform agency are not given their full weight and there is an endless process of reconsideration by various officials, Ministers and so on of the reports thus produced. 
Secondly, there is the question of the collection and assessment of law reform proposals and suggestions that are produced, in particular by judges, lawyers, newspapers, statutory authorities, royal commissions and many other persons and bodies in the community other than those I have mentioned, but particularly those I have mentioned. These persons and bodies are constantly making various suggestions for the reform of the law both in State and in Federal jurisdictions. Regrettably, these suggestions tend to disappear completly from sight once made simply because there is no systematic machinery for bringing those suggestions to the attention of the appropriate authorities. The basic proposal in our report is that the Australian Law Reform Commission should assume an extended clearing house function in this respect, a function which it presently performs quite admirably in respect of official reports of all law reform agencies; it does collect, digest and disseminate them but, in addition, we are suggesting it should establish a national register of law reform suggestions. 
It is to be noted in respect of this matter of the collection of the proposals for law reform that the report contains some quite explicit criticism of the attitude of legal academics- to which class it might be appreciated I once belonged- for their failure to co-operate in the preparation, in addition, of a register of current legal research. The criticism in the report is to the effect that legal academics are not paid out of the public purse either to be lazy or prima donnas in respect of their production of research and that they ought to be- I fully agree with the Committee's recommendations in this respect- prepared to publish an account or allow the publication of an account of research currently under way in order to facilitate the process of law reform in this country. 
Finally, the report addresses itself to the difficult question of the co-ordination of the work of law reform among the 1 1 different agencies which are presently established in the various States and Territories and at the Commonwealth level around the country. Regrettably it has been the case that with the proliferation of law reform activity in recent years, there has been, nonetheless, a quite considerable and unnecessary duplication of effort and wastage of resources as between those respective agencies very often doing the same sort of thing. The report documents a good degree of duplication and wastage. It makes a number of suggestions- which I will not record in detail as  Senator Missen  has already done so to some extent- which will go to the improvement of co-ordination in the sense of exchanging information and research. 
However, in talking about co-ordination, the main focus of the report is directed to the question of uniform law reform. Uniformity in our laws is not an end in itself, but there are very many particular areas of the law identified in our report, and to some extent again summarised in what  Senator Missen  has just said, where it has long been appreciated and agreed by lawyers of all political colours that there is a very strong case for such uniformity. Regretably, in Australia we just had no machinery anything like as sophisticated as the uniformity machinery which has been established and has long existed in the United States and Canada- two similar federal systems. The report points out that there is very much to be learnt from those jurisdictions. 
The main focus of the report in this respect- I hope the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  will take particular notice of this- is on the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. As it is presently constructed, and as it has operated, despite the initial promise which that Committee demonstrated in its activity in the early sixties, it has shown itself to be quite incapable in recent years- in the view of our Committee- of doing anything useful or constructive in the area of uniform law reform. In particular, the Committee report is highly critical- as  Senator Missen  indicated more politely- of the Standing Committee's failure to adopt the proposals put to it by the Conference of Australian Law Reform Agencies in 1975. Had that proposal been adopted, it would have rationalised the procedures for formulating and developing uniform law reform proposals without in any way derogating from the political responsibility for implementing such proposals, which it is readily acknowledged must remain with the political arms of government. 
On behalf of the Committee, I hope that the Government will give detailed consideration to the many carefully thought-out proposals in the report; further, that the Government will provide an early opportunity for a full scale parliamentary debate of the report and its recommendations. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I move: 
In proposed new clause 38a, sub-clause (2), paragraph (a), after 'intended', insert 'to be used or is capable of being used ' and delete 'or likely to be used '. 
The Opposition is indebted to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  to the extent that he has gone away and brought back a proposal which does something to give a right of appeal in respect of communications from the Australian Security Intelligence Organization in the form of character of security assessments which have the effect of prejudicing people in the State arena. The Opposition's concern was that as the Bill was originally drafted it extended only to security assessments that operated, as it were, in the Commonwealth arena. The Opposition was strenuously insisting earlier in this debate that any form of communication of information to a State authority which could result in an individual being prejudiced should give rise to a right of appeal. The way in which we originally argued it and were defeated was on the basis of the amendment moved by  Senator Cavanagh,  that no such information should be communicated except on the condition that the State to which it was communicated had an effective appeal mechanism of its own. The Attorney has brought back a proposal which produces or endeavours to produce a similar result but employs a different mechanism. The mechanism it employs is a requirement that any communication of information by ASIO which operated in this way must be communicated in the first instance through a Commonwealth authority, which communication, in the first instance, to a Commonwealth authority will obviously bring into play the appeal mechanisms which are proposed at the Commonwealth level. To the extent that that does establish some form of appeal machinery that operates in this area, we do not oppose it. What we are worried about, however, and what this amendment is aimed at correcting, is what we regard as an excessive limitation of scope of this proposal as it now comes before us. The clause on which we focus to move an amendment is sub-clause 2 (a) of the proposed new section which states: 
The organization shall not communicate directly to a State or an authority of a State, whether in the form of assessment or otherwise, any information, recommendation, opinion or advice concerning a person which the Organization knows is intended or likely to be used by the State or an authority of the State in considering prescribed administrative action in relation to that person; 
So the Organization is only prohibited from communicating directly, as distinct from through Commonwealth authority channels, information which it knows will be used by a State authority in adopting prejudicial action or which it believes is likely to be so used. We say that that requirement of subjective knowledge about the actual certainty of it being used, or the likelihood of it being used narrows the scope of this clause too much. We argue the substitution for the word likely' as it appears of the word 'capable'. It would then provide that information which the Organization knows is intended to be used by the State or which is capable of being used by the State in producing prejudicial action should be communicated through a Commonwealth authority in such a way as to bring into play the existing mechanism at the Commonwealth level. 
The force and effect of our amendment can be appreciated from what I have said. It is simply aimed at broadening the range or scope of information which must be communicated to State authorities in a particular way, namely, through a Commonwealth authority in order to bring into play the appeal mechanism. The point which the Opposition is making is consistent with the point which we have made continuously throughout this debate that if information is to be communicated- we acknowledge the fact that there are occasions on which it will be necessary to do so- and if that information is likely to be or is capable of being used in such a way as to prejudice any individual, the individual who is so prejudiced must have rights of appeal. It is only on those conditions, with the existence of a right to appeal, that we are even remotely happy about the existence of that power of communication. The Opposition is proposing a small amendment. We suggest that it is not one which in any way will create administrative or practical problems in the administration of the Bill. It just expands the scope of this clause in a way which brings it within a wider range of information than is presently encompassed and accordingly allows a wider number of people to have rights of appeal than those presently provided for. 
-In subclause 11, is it not the case that the Tribunal could call an agent from the Australian Security Intelligence Organization to give evidence on its own motion if it was unsatisfied, on the evidence that had already been presented, that there was sufficient material before it to enable it to reach a decision? Are not the parties to the proceedings, the Director-General on the one hand and the applicant on the other hand? As I read subclause (II), the Tribunal would not be excluded from calling an ASIO agent to give evidence which raises exactly the same point as was raised by  Senator Puplick.  In that sense, if the Tribunal is given a discretion under sub-clause (11), why should it not be given a discretion under the earlier provisions as well? 
-I move: 
Page 23, clause 57, sub-clause (4), lines 38 and 39, leave out 'but the certificate does not specify a reason' referred to in paragraph  (1)(a) or (b) 
In order to appreciate the effect of this amendment, which is quite similar in substance to that which we have been debating in respect of clause 56, it is necessary to appreciate the effect of clause 57, assuming for a moment that the words we want to take out were, in fact, absent. What clause 57 does at the moment is set some limitations on certain classes of sensitive material being disclosed to the applicant in Tribunal proceedings. In that respect, it is a companion piece to the evidentiary provisions in clause 56. 
The particular classes of sensitive material dealt with by clause 57 are spelt out in sub-clause (l)(a), (b) and (c). In sub-clause (l)(a) the first such category is material which would be contrary to the public interest by reason of the fact that it would prejudice security or the defence or international relations of Australia. Subclause (l)(b) relates to material which is contrary to the public interest by reason that it would involve the disclosure of deliberations or decisions of the Cabinet, a committee of the Cabinet, or the Executive Council. Sub-clause ( 1 ) (c), the third class of material described, relates to material which, to paraphrase the situation, might otherwise form the basis of a claim of Crown privilege. That sensitive material is subject to a scheme set out in clause 57, the substance of which is as follows: In respect of any such class of material there can be a certificate issued by the Attorney-General that the disclosure of it would be against the public interest. That material is required, however, to be supplied to the Tribunal, for the Tribunal to make up its own mind, to make its own determination as to what it will do with it. 
The third element in the scheme is that the presidential member of the Tribunal can, if he is satisfied that the interests of justice outweigh the particular reasons specified by the AttorneyGeneral to justify his certificate, authorise the disclosure of the information or the contents of the document in question by the Tribunal to an applicant. That is the basic scheme of clause 57, it identifies sensitive classes of material and enables the Attorney-General to certify that the information should not be disclosed. Nonetheless, it leaves to the Tribunal itself the final decision whether the details are to be disclosed to the applicant. As the clause is now written, that scheme is subject to an exception. This is the substance of the Opposition amendment. The particular exception or proviso is contained in sub-clause (4). That relates to instances where the AttorneyGeneral 's certificate specifies a reason referred to in paragraphs 1 (a) or 1 (b). In other words, if the Attorney-General certifies that the material is sensitive for the first two of the reasons that I mentioned- namely, that it would prejudice security or the defence or international relations of 
Australia, or that it would involve disclosure of Cabinet deliberations- that certification is absolutely conclusive. The Tribunal then is given no independent role to determine for itself whether the interests of justice outweigh that particular reason and, accordingly, allow the disclosure of the material to the applicant. The Opposition is of the view that the Tribunal should retain a discretion, retain its own independent judgment, with respect to all these classes of material. The Opposition is also of the view that there should not be that exception for material prejudicial to security, namely, paragraph 1 (a) material, or material which discloses Cabinet deliberations, being paragraph 1 (b) material. 
No. It would still be appropriate for the Attorney-General to certify that it would be against the public interest to disclose material for either of these reasons. That certification has significance to the extent that that material once so certified by the AttorneyGeneral cannot be disclosed to the world at large. It cannot be disclosed to anyone else but the applicant, if the presidential member of the Tribunal so certifies. There is a whole number of reasons why that certification procedure is provided for. Our amendment relates only to the particular aspect of the scheme that is dealt with in the first four sub-clauses. It is not a matter of saying that the Attorney-General's certification is mistaken. It is only a matter of saying that that certification should not be conclusive as to the question whether the material in issue should be disclosed to the particular applicant. The reason why one wishes to disclose this material to the applicant is exactly the reason that we have been discussing for the last half hour; it is in order that the applicant can be well armed, that he can know the nature of the case against him and that he can present rebutting evidence accordingly. These are fundamental basic natural justice considerations. 
The Opposition appreciates that there may be good reasons why in a particular case the Tribunal should not allow such material to be disclosed to the applicant. But we say that it ought to be a matter for the Tribunal 's decision; it is the presidential member's decision. It is not a matter for the Government of the day. This becomes particularly clear, in our submission, when we look at what the subject matter of paragraphs 1 (a) and 1 (b) actually is. In paragraph 1 (a) we deal with material which is certified by the Attorney-General to be against the public interest by reason that it would prejudice security or the defence or international relations of Australia. We are not dealing here with material which, to use a similar expression to the one used in clause 37: '. . . the withholding of which is essential to security'. We are not dealing with that very, very sensitive class of material. We are simply dealing with the routine class of material which is the subject matter of this whole Bill, that is, material prejudicial to security. 
The suggestion that the Opposition puts with considerable vigour on this point is that if this clause stays as it is, so that the Attorney-General can certify material of this kind to be inappropriate for disclosure to the applicant, and if that certification by the Attorney-General is conclusive, we can drive a coach and horses through the whole appeal system and make it a complete farce. The applicant can be put in a position of not being given any information at all with which to sustain and put his appeal together. The drafting of that clause is just too far reaching to justify conclusive certification by the Tribunal. It ought to be a matter for the tribunal's determination. The Tribunal ought to be able to make its own decision on the basis of taking into account the security value on the one hand against the interests of justice and the applicant having access to it on the other hand. Similarly, we make exactly the same point with respect to the class of material which is also made conclusive by virtue of the Attorney-General's certificate. That is the class of material in paragraph 1 (b)- material that would involve the disclosure of deliberations of the Cabi net or the Executive Council. 
We say that this is the very issue that was involved in the Sankey case where the High Court took the view that it was appropriate for a judicial tribunal to make its own mind up whether the interests of justice in a particular case were such as to outweigh the interests in maintaining the freedom from disclosure of Cabinet deliberations. That is exactly the same issue as was put up in the Sankey case. Admittedly it was in the judicial context and this is a quasi-judicial context. I acknowledge that distinction. The High Court made the point that it had to be in a position to make up its own mind. This is an identical situation. It is not some other public interest consideration. It is the interests of justice which are the very statutory criteria laid down. 
I draw the attention of the Attorney-General to the fact that he said in this Parliament on 2 May that neither he nor to his knowledge the Government had any intention of legislating to override the effect of the Sankey case. Might I suggest that this legislation was drafted before the Sankey case was decided by the High Court. Might I also suggest to the Attorney-General that he has a very considerable task ahead of him if he is to justify this particular paragraph 1 (b) in the light of the Sankey case and in the light of the Government's stated attitude to that case. 
I suppose technically that is true to the extent that committal proceedings are not by any means fully judicial in the way that the hearing of the trial on indictment is. There is an analogy in that respect between the nature of the proceedings there and the nature of the quasi-judicial proceedings that are in issue here. I am indebted to  Senator Missen  for making that point. That is in short the Opposition case in support of its amendment to Clause 57. For all those reasons, we would urge most strenuously the Attorney to accept this amendment which is quite short in its physical compass. Though perhaps quite obscure in terms of its implications when one looks at the words we want to take out, it is of very great significance indeed in terms of its practical implications. 
It has to be appreciated just how potentially draconic in its operation this section is. It provides for penalties of $ 1,000 by way of fine or imprisonment for up to one year for publishing or otherwise making public 'any matter stating, or from which it could reasonably be inferred, that a person having a particular name or otherwise identified, or a person residing at a particular address, is an officer (not including the DirectorGeneral)' we all know about him- 'employee or agent of the Organization or is in any way connected with such an officer, employee or agent. ' 
It is to be noted that that fine is not the only thing that can operate by way of a penal sanction here. It is not only the conveyor or giver of such information who is caught by these penalties. Under the ordinary principles of the general law anyone who receives such information would be caught within the net of the criminal law by way of aiding and abetting such a communication. That, I would imagine, is, or at least ought to be, a matter for some considerable concern for members of the Press who are often in receipt of such communication. Not only is it the range of people who can be caught up by the operation of this clause, it is particular kinds of situations which come within the ambit of this clause which also are too wide ranging. It has to be noted that the way the clause is drawn, a person does not even have to be accurate in his statement that someone is an Australian Security Intelligence Organisation agent in order to attract the operation of this clause. He might be quite wrong in his assertion that  Senator Durack  or his departmental officer sitting beside him is, in fact, an ASIO agent. He could be quite wrong. But if he communicates the identity of a person in such a way that it might be inferred that a person is an ASIO agent, he comes under the umbrella occupation of this particular clause. 
Let us come to the Coxsedge situation. This has become known familiarly as the Coxsedge amendment or the Coxsedge clause because, quite obviously, it is aimed at, more than anyone else, the activities of the organisation known, for better or for worse, as the Campaign Against Political Police. The main spokesperson for that organisation is, of course,  Ms Joan  Coxsedge, M.L.C., as we are now obliged to describe her. Although the activities of  Ms Coxsedge  and her organisation have undoubtedly embarrassed ASIO over the course now of a number of years, and although the activities of that organisation in publishing the names and addresses of ASIO agents or putative ASIO agents would now undoubtedly be penalised by this clause, it is arguable that it is to the advantage of ASIO. This point has been put quite seriously in correspondence to the public media that I have seen. It is arguable that it is to the advantage of ASIO that organisations like  Ms Coxsedge  's have, in the past, felt free to be able to communicate publicly such information as has come to their possession as to the identity of ASIO agents. In the future they will not, obviously, feel equally free to communicate that knowledge publicly. They will keep it to themselves and communicate it in much less obvious ways and much less public ways in order not to attract the operation of this clause. As a result, the existence of that degree of knowledge about ASIO agents that is held by organisations such as  Ms Coxsedge  's will not, in the future, most probably, come to the attention of ASIO in the way that it has obviously come to the attention of the organisation in the past. 
Well, be that as it may, the publications have been made without any opportunity for ASIO or anyone else to attribute the source of the information. But more particularly, one can imagine that information of this sort will not, in the future, be communicated publicly, certainly because of the sanctions that it will attract. That is not to assume that it will not be communicated surreptitiously and ultimately do more damage to the organisation than is the case at the moment. That is one way one could approach the operation of this clause. The Opposition has not gone so far as to say that in no circumstances should it attract criminal penalties to communicate information of that kind. We have not moved for the deletion of the clause entirely because, of course, we appreciate that there are circumstances in which the disclosure of the identity of agents or people acting on behalf of ASIO could cause serious damage to the operation of the organisation as a whole and the security that it is pledged to protect. More particularly even, it might cause a situation of personal physical danger to particular ASIO agents. All the Opposition is saying in moving the amendment is not that it be struck entirely from the statute book but simply that it be surrounded by safeguards of the kind that  Senator Button  has outlined. 
The other point to notice about the clause as presently drafted is that it is not confined in its operation to disclosures of the identity of actual or putative ASIO employees or officers on the full time payroll of the organisation. The way the clause is drafted its operation extends to people who can be described as 'agents' of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation which, of course, legally speaking is a term capable of implying a much looser connection with the Organisation than that of the employer-employee relationship. It also refers in terms to anyone who is in any way connected with such an officer, employee or agent. The reality of that situation is that because of the fear of this criminal sanction a number of instances of blatant misbehaviour by ASIO such as occurred in the past, now will not be able to attract exposure in the way that they would have properly attracted exposure in the past. 
One particular instance of the kind of thing I am talking about is, of course, the famous case in 1971 of Peter Coleman, journalist, politicianand whatever other careers he might have engaged in over the years- seeking to encourage another journalist, Robert Mayne, to generate publicity, or establish a journal, from information supplied by ASIO. As is known and was well documented, Coleman approached Mayne to produce a journal which would be supplied with information direct from ASIO sources.  Mr Justice  Hope investigated the allegations that were made publicly in that respect, and subjected that episode to some stinging criticism in his report. He made the point that it was quite improper for ASIO to seek to engage in that kind of surreptitious enterprise. The only thing that brought to light this misbehaviour of ASIO was the willingness of the journalist in question, Robert Mayne, to disclose publicly the approach made to him by Peter Coleman, who if not then acting as an employee or as an officer of ASIO, was certainly acting as an agent of ASIO or at least as someone connected with a person acting in that capacity. 
It is crucially important that the abuse or misuse of ASIO power ought to be able to be made public. The language of this clause ought not to be drawn in such a way that it operates in this catch-all fashion, including within its potential ambit a whole variety of forms of disclosure; including the well motivated, the innocent and the positively beneficial in the interests of the community as a whole, as well as those of a more sinister motivation. If the clause is to operate or exist at all it is important that it be drafted in such a way that it is capable of being applied selectively in order to distinguish between the good and the bad cases. That is why the Opposition has moved its amendment in this form. We appreciate that there are obvious difficulties in trying to build into the definition of the offence the kind of criteria about damage to security or damage to the ASIO agent in question that we want to see applied. If such criteria were built into the text of the definition one would be faced with the situation of the Organisation having to prove all sorts of evidentiary matters before a court, which might cause acute embarrassment and difficulty. 
We have adopted the approach that it is proper in these sorts of difficult and sensitive areas not to try to rewrite the text of the offence to include these necessary additional criteria, but rather to put it in terms of a threshold requirement of consent to prosecution. The AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  has circulated an amendment which indicates that he is at least willing to incorporate a requirement within clause 90 that his consent be obtained before any prosecution is mounted for a breach of this clause. We appreciate the Attorney going to those lengths. It is important that there be some sort of threshold requirement, some sort of consent provision, incorporated in the text of this Bill. We are grateful for and will certainly accept the substance of that amendment. However, we argue that it just does not go far enough. It is important here, as elsewhere, that the AttorneyGeneral's mind be focused specifically on the considerations which are of importance in distinguishing between the legitimate and illegitimate subjects for prosecution. 
I raise a point which has been raised many times in this debate, that we just cannot assume that an Attorney-General, without explicit statutory guidance, will act in a way that is motivated by and consistent with the kind of principles which the Opposition has been endeavouring to expound throughout the course of this debate. This Attorney-General or some other individual might be so motivated but it is not to be assumed that generations of Attorneys-General in future years will be similarly properly motivated. It is not even to be assumed that this Attorney will devote his attention to the particular matters which we regard as appropriate, unless he is given specific statutory reminders of the considerations which he ought to bear in mind. There ought to be no controversy about the language of the additional criteria that we want to assert. The particular considerations that we are saying he should be able to look at are whether security will be seriously prejudiced and the individual danger to which a particular agent or employee might be subjected. There ought not to be any difficulty in the Government's acceptance of this amendment for the various reasons that have been outlined by the Opposition. 
-I am indebted to  Senator Puplick  for reminding the Opposition that neither  Senator Button  nor I had actually explained why we wanted to delete subclause (2) as well as insert the provision to which we directed our remarks. Sub-clause (2 ) states: 
Nothing in this section applies to the broadcasting or reporting of proceedings in the Parliament. 
The reason we want to delete this sub-clause is not because we want to expose parliamentarians in any way to the penalties set out in this clause, as  Senator Puplick  intimated, but rather because we want to make absolutely sure that parliamentarians are not exposed. Let me explain the reasoning which justifies our seeking to have this clause removed. As it reads at the moment it does not in its terms give protection to members of Parliament. The way this clause is drafted, it gives protection to those who report or broadcast proceedings of Parliament. It gives protection to the Press Gallery, to  Hansard  and to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Sub-clause (2) operates to protect those people who work within the Parliament. 
Let me come to that matter,  Senator Mason.  One presumes that the intention of the Government is to maintain the protection of parliamentarians which exists by virtue of the ordinary rules of privilege and which would, as  Senator Mason  and  Senator Georges  before him have pointed out, in the absence of any statutory provision to the contrary, continue to apply. The difficulty arises in the way that this clause is drafted at the moment which rather suggests that that privilege does not apply in this situation, when offences under this clause are at issue. If the privilege did apply and was enjoyed by parliamentarians, that privilege would be shared in the normal way by those who report and broadcast proceedings. The qualified privilege, as it is described, that is enjoyed by broadcasters and reporters of parliamentary proceedings is built upon the privilege enjoyed by parliamentarians themselves. If parliamentarians do not have the privilege and the Government wants to protect broadcasters and reporters, it would have to create an explicit statutory provision in order to do so. 
The existence of this statutory provision in sub-clause (2), although it might have been inserted for the best abundance of caution motives in order to be aimed at making absolutely sure that reporters and broadcasters were covered, may indeed have precisely the opposite effect by the application of an expressio unius kind of legal reasoning: the mere fact that the Government included it rather presumes that it was necessary to be included, and that the ordinary rules of privilege would not apply. There may be something wrong with that reasoning, but if there is I would like to hear it from the mouth of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  because, as sub-clause (2) stands at the moment, it seems to be at best unnecessary and redundant and, at worst, quite dangerous, by virtue of giving rise to a legal implication that parliamentarians themselves do not enjoy the privilege. It is for that reason that the Opposition sought to remove that sub-clause, although that is not the main thrust of our amendment to clause 90. The main thrust of the amendment has been the subject of previous contributions by  Senator Button  and me. 
-The Opposition is indebted to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  for that particular bone, but we feel that what is still missing from the statute is some guidance as to how that bone should be chewed. The Attorney's amendment states: 
A prosecution for an offence against sub-section (2) shall be instituted only by or with the consent of the Attorney-General. 
The Opposition seeks to add to the proposed new sub-clause. I now move: 
At the end of proposed sub-clause (5), add 'which consent shall not be given unless the Attorney-General is satisfied that the communication the subject of the prosecution had, or would be likely to have, the effect of seriously prejudicing security'. 
A number of times during the debate honourable senators have heard argument as to whether there should be explicit statutory guidance on how the Attorney-General's mind should be focused in the exercise of the various directions, discretions and powers vested in him. This is another attempt to give explicit statutory content to a particular power and to require him to direct his mind specifically to the question of whether security would be seriously prejudiced by the kind of communication that is in issue. It is only in those circumstances of serious prejudice that a prosecution should then proceed. The AttorneyGeneral will be well aware- if  Senator Lewis,  who is trying to interject, can curb his bucolic hormones for just a few moments to let me make my comment- that clause 18 has been the subject matter of very considerable comment and discussion in the Press and very considerable concern from, amongst others, the Australian Journalists ' Association, which has passed resolutions condemning clause 18 as it stands in round terms. This criticism justifies detailed scrutiny and careful scrutiny of this clause before the Committee passes it in its present form or even the form in which it is now moved by the 
Attorney-General. For those reasons, the Opposition presses the amendment which I have just moved. 
Speaking to  Senator Button's  motion, the situation is that this chamber has been sitting for over 29^ hours on this Bill as a whole, of which some 20 hours has been spent in the Committee stage. One might have thought, perhaps, and no doubt the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  will tell us that this represents more than enough consideration of this Bill. However, that sort of time span is not really anything of great significance when one compares it with the amount of time that committees spend on major references. For example the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee, in its freedom of information reference, has been taking evidence and deliberating now for something of the order of at least 20 days, which would represent approximately 1 20 hours of consideration. I would suggest to honourable senators that this ASIO legislation is at least as important as that, if not more so, and justifies that degree of detailed attention. 
As  Senator Button  has said, the Government, it is true, has made some minor concessions along the way during the debate. But the reality is that there is an awful lot in the Opposition's amendments, many of which have attracted favourable comment from outside this Parliament, which has not been accepted by the Government. These amendments relate to a whole range of considerations going to the accountability of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the various mechanisms that we have suggested in that respect. They relate to the special powers that are to be exercised in relation to the installation of listening devices, search and seizure, the interception of mail and so on. They relate to the penalties which are going to continue to be imposed for the communication of certain information in relation to ASIO. There are matters in relation to the conduct of the appeals tribunals which we have pressed, which have not been accepted by the Government but for which there are very strong arguments that they ought to have been accepted. There are many people in the community who have expressed already in correspondence to me and other senators, in letters to the Press and so on, their desire that they be heard in the processes of this Parliament on this matter. Here I refer to correspondence from the Queensland Council for Civil Liberties and a number of other letters. It is important and I simply reiterate - 
No doubt we will hear from the Church of Scientology, the League of Rights and all sorts of organisations which we may or may not wish to take seriously. But their voice ought to be heard because the best guarantee of a society's status is one which genuinely preserves and respects civil liberty in a society that gives exactly the same consideration to minority groups which might be thought unattractive or disreputable to mainstream people in our society like  Senator Sim  and others with whom he sits. It is that which is the measure of a society's true respect for civil liberties. It is that sort of consideration which we ought to take into account by giving these people and everyone else in the community an opportunity to debate the detail of the legislation. I support the motion. 
My question bears upon the portfolios of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Resources, and Attorney-General. 1 direct my question, therefore, to either  Senator Carrick  or  Senator Durack.  I refer to the Dillingham Corporation's claim for $23m compensation from the Australian Government in respect of the closure of its sand mining operations on Fraser Island. Is it the case that the Government of the United States of America has made a decision to take up or espouse the Dillingham case before the International Court of Justice, and accordingly to sue Australia in that forum? Does this decision, if it has been made, not represent a spectacular failure of  Mr Peacock's  attempts at diplomacy in that area, and make nonsense of any claim of a special relationship with the United States of America? Further, in view of conflicting reports as to the opinion of the Government's advisers on this matter, what is its present assessment of the likely outcome of any such case brought against Australia in the International Court? 
I seek some elucidation from the Minister about the point he just made. Clause. 27 (3) says that power to make an ordinance in respect to the authorisation of expenditure may be made by the Governor-General on account of urgencythat is true- or ' for any other special reason '. The reason for the Opposition's concern is the very width of the second phrase. It does not limit the application of these powers to urgency situations, as the Minister just intimated, but rather leaves it entirely open for such powers to be exercised for other reasons which remain obscure. The Opposition would be very grateful for some indication from the Minister of what on earth the Government had in mind in using that expression 'for any other special reason '. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 6 March 1 979: 
1 ) Has approval been given for funding the proposed geriatric wing of the Warley Bush Nursing Hospital, Cowes. Phillip Island, Victoria under the Nursing Home Beds Section of the Aged Persons Housing Program: if so. when can the Warley Bush Nursing Hospital Committee expect to receive the money; if not: (a) is more than 30 per cent of the island's population over the agc of 65, and are these senior citizens obliged to travel 85 miles to the nearest accommodation for the elderly; and (b) when will the project be approved. 
Did the hospital launch a public appeal to raise the required local contribution in November 1977, and was $50,000 raised within six months from a resident population of 2,000 people. 
What representations have been made to the Minister on this project. 
-This Bill has had a somewhat extraordinary background. Never in the history of Australian legislation can there have been a Bill that has been preceded by so much investigation, so little of which has in fact appeared in the final product. In May, 1975 a royal commission in the person of  Sir John  Nimmo was set up to review fully the constitutional future of Norfolk Island. In October 1976 that royal commission reported. The four major recommendations of the Nimmo royal commission were: Firstly, that Norfolk Island residents be given representation in the national parliament by, in fact, including them in the electorate of Canberra; secondly, that all Commonwealth legislation, past or future, be made applicable to Norfolk Island unless the contrary be stated in such legislation; thirdly, and associated with that, that the same levels of taxation and social security as applied generally in the mainland Territories be made applicable to Norfolk Island; and fourthly, that within this framework Norfolk Island should receive limited but real self-government. 
Nothwithstanding the force and rationality with which those conclusions were argued by  Sir John  Nimmo, we now have a situation- which has been stated as government policy and which is now embodied in this Bill- whereby firstly, Norfolk Islanders will not receive elective representation in the national Parliament; secondly, Australian laws will continue not to apply to Norfolk Island unless that be expressly stated therein; thirdly, that Australian taxation and social security will not be extended to the island; and fourthly, that Norfolk Island will receive a measure of self-government which is anything but real. 
This Bill is said to reflect the real wishes of the islanders, in particular their desire not to be absorbed or integrated, any more than they are at the moment, into Australia. It is very difficult to be sure that that is so and that it does reflect the wishes of all of the islanders. Although Norfolk Island is a tiny place with a permanent population of only some 1,600, it is true that it is a  microcosm of many larger societies. In particular, it must be acknowledged that Norfolk Island is very much a class-ridden society and one in which the Pitcairners, the founders of Norfolk Island and the ones of whom one thinks as being the Norfolk Islanders, are now very much a minority, representing barely 40 per cent of the population. Moreover, they are the Norfolk Islanders who are at the bottom of the social and economic heap in that Territory. It appears that it is the Pitcairners who have some very grave reservations indeed about this Bill. This Parliament also should have grave reservations about it- about the constitutional system that it embodies and about the immunities from the operation of Australian legislation that are part and parcel of it. 
A number of aspects of life on Norfolk Island ought to be of particular concern to this Parliament and to all Australians. The first is that, as  Senator Button  has indicated, it has been operating as a tax haven, especially in respect of transactions involving the payment of stamp duty. In the last year evidence has been placed before this Parliament that as much as $30m has passed in and out of the island in one day as part of tax avoidance transactions of this kind. If Norfolk Island is to continue to avoid the application of Australian taxes- there is no doubt that this proposition at least is certainly supported by a majority of the population who, I suppose, are no less selfish in this respect than are people anywhere- we must at least ensure that persons who have no formal residential or other genuine connection with the island are unable to use this taxation loophole system for financial advantage. 
The second aspect of life on Norfolk Island which must be of concern to this Parliament and the Australian people is the system of social services which prevails- or does not prevail, to state it more accurately. The elderly and the infirm do, it is true, benefit from what are described as grace and favour' payments- amounts of up to $35 a week, which are now payable at the discretion of the Administration. Indeed, before the current round of window-dressing that has been associated with this legislation, the sum paid under the system was as low as $10 a week. On Norfolk Island there is no such thing as unemployment benefit. The method of dealing with those who are unemployed is one which, no doubt, the Fraser Government would find an attractive solution to its problems; that is, simply to force the unemployed off the island, physically out of the way. Another matter which should cause grave concern is the question of labour conditions on the island. As my colleague,  Mr Innes,  said in the other place, the trouble about labour conditions on Norfolk Island is that it is all labour and no conditions. There is no system of arbitration or of industrial control. Employers can, and do, pay as little as they can get away with. It is not uncommon for a wage of $70 to be paid for a six-day, 48-hour week. 
Nothing in this Bill or in the Government's proposed policy, announced in association with its presentation, does anything to rectify any of these situations. Norfolk Islanders will continue to enjoy- if that is the right word; I suppose that it is for at least a minority- more or less complete immunity from the operation of Australian legislation and Australian social policy. But it is not as if this policy is being carried through. It is not as if this policy of immunity from Australian legislation is being carried through to its logical, conclusion; namely, either complete independence from Australia, which is one solution and one logical way of dealing with the kind of approach that the Government seems to have in mind; or something less than that but nonetheless quite substantial- a system of complete selfgovernment where the Norfolk Islanders would have complete responsibility for their domestic affairs and complete freedom from Australian Government interference. 
The Bill purports to confer a system of selfgovernment or at least to be a major step down that road; but in reality, as  Senator Button  has said, it confers nothing. of the kind. My colleague referred to the Bill as perhaps putting a toe in the water in that respect, but I suggest to the Senate that the toe does not even get wet. The constitutional system which is created by this Bill is a nineteenth century one- great stuff for the heyday of the British Empire, but not the kind of thing that is in any way appropriate to the latter part of the twentieth century, which is a time when colonies are just a little bit out of fashion, and rightly so. The key things to appreciate about the constitutional system which is created by this Bill are as follows: First of all, it confers minimal powers on the elected Legislative Assembly; secondly, it confers negligible powers on the appointed Executive Council; thirdly, it gives quite excessive powers to the Australian Government appointed administrator; and, fourthly, it enables the retention by the Australian Government, acting through the Governor-General, as the Bill puts it, of quite excessive residual powers. 
The matters with respect to which the Legislative Assembly can legislate at all under the terms of the Bill are quite limited. Moreover, anything the legislature does by way of producing proposed laws is subject to assent, or refusal of assent, by the Administrator. Furthermore, any law that is so produced has to overcome a third hurdle, that is, that it is subject to disallowance by the Governor-General. One assumes that the Australian Governor-General would be acting on the advice of the Executive Council, but the literal language of the Bill does not say as much and one is left to the uncertain operation of the Acts Interpretation Act to make it clear that the Governor-General would be acting not in person but on the advice of the Australian Cabinet. 
The whole notion of a power of disallowance remaining in the hands of the Governor-General is an archaic one and one which was justified by the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  in his reply to the debate in the other place, in terms of its mirroring section 59 of the Australian Constitution which provides that any law passed by the Australian Parliament is subject to disallowance by the Queen. Goodness gracious, if the example of section 59 is to be trotted out, made applicable and built into the very fabric of this legislation, it gives one considerable cause for alarm about the Government's feelings with respect to section 59 itself. A clause which all of us had thought had long fallen into desuetude and irrelevance is now being resurrected and incorporated in a different way into the fabric of this Norfolk Island legislation. 
So far as the Executive Council is concerned, this domestic Norfolk Island body is given a role in advising the Administrator, but it is clear that the Executive Council itself is very much a toothless tiger. It is appointed by the Administrator from the local Legislative Assembly and if the Administrator of the day does not like the advice he gets from the Executive Council he will have the power under this legislation to terminate the appointment of any individual member of the Executive Council. There is no evidence whatsoever, either on the face of the legislation or in the way in which it is likely to operate in practice, that the Executive Council will be any kind of bulwark of democracy in Norfolk Island. 
The real problems with this legislation lie not just with the position of the Legislative Assembly and Executive Council, but most of all with the position of the Administrator. It is absolutely clear that the real power remains in the hands of the Administrator. That is where the real action in Norfolk Island is and will remain. The position of Administrator is not an elected office but rather is filled on appointment by the Australian Government. The powers that the Administrator can exercise under this legislation would not be such as to embarrass an oriental potentate. The literal powers vested in the Adminsitrator are very extensive- powers to convene the Legislative Assembly, to initiate money legislation, to appoint and dismiss the Executive Council and to assent or refuse assent, as the case may be, to legislation. 
It may well be said, of course, that these are merely literal statutory powers and that they will not be misused; and that the conventions appropriate to a Westminster system will apply, just as was said in the run-up to the events of 1975 about the literal powers vested in the Governor-General under the literal terms of the Australian Constitution. I suggest that that kind of assertion, that kind of claim, if we hear it tonight from the Minister or from the Government, can be treated with just as much a grain of salt as we can now treat any protestations which may continue to be made about the relevance, the existence, the viability, of those Westminster conventions which up to 1 975 we all had thought existed. The difficulty is that we just cannot make any assumptions nowadays, either generally in Australia or more particularly with respect to this Norfolk Island legislation, that such conventions exist or that they will be observed. 
In particular, we cannot make any assumptions to this effect, given the absolute and dictatorial way in which the powers of the Norfolk Island Administrator have been used and abused in practice in the past. There is quite recent evidence of the abuse of power by the Norfolk Island Administrator. Let me put some of that evidence before the Senate. What I am referring to came in the form of a letter addressed to the Minister,  Mr Ellicott,  and signed by  Mr Ed  Howard. It was published in the FebruaryMarch 1979 issue of an island newspaper called the  Norfolk Island News.  The letter read as follows: 
On February 3rd the weekly 'Norfolk Islander' carried an anonymous letter which urged readers to value their heritage, stand up for their rights, and resist the passage of the Norfolk Island Bill. 
Several days later the Administrator of the Island called in the editor, Tom Lloyd, and notified him that certain parts of the letter were- in the opinion of the Legal Adviserseditious. The Government's next step was not clear to  Mr Lloyd,  but he understood he was under scrutiny and that he might be charged and brought to trial. 
Sedition is one of the few high crimes against government. My understanding is that it means exciting disloyalty against the Queen and the Constitutional Government, and inciting people to illegal actions, as a means to overthrowing the Government. When an allegation of sedition is made by an appointee of the Governor-General, in the formal setting of a territory's highest executive office, an editor is in grave trouble. 
The letter in question argues that Norfolk should be governed by itself in association with Australia- a condition which entails a stable monarchy and Commonwealth. Neither the letter nor  Mr Lloyd  is seditious by any stretch of the imagination. 
There is a comic side to all this- the mental picture of His Honour sensing in the pages of a weekly paper a threat to the very foundations of the Commonwealth, and leaping fearlessly to their defence. 
But something quite uncomic, and quite serious, is involved. 
I think it is unlikely that the Administrator was motivated by a desire to defend constitutional government. I think his purpose was intimidation of the press- an effort to frighten an editor, and make him then play down anything critical of the Norfolk Island Bill or the Government's intentions to annex Norfolk. This tactic is commonplace in despotic countries. As a matter of fact it works. And this is a politically crucial time on Norfolk. 
If official intimidation of the press appears within the Australian Government, I think it ought to be noted and checked. 
I remind the Senate that the last person to talk of legitimate political dissent in terms of sedition or seditious libel was in fact the then AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Ellicott,  who said, it will be remembered, in the aftermath of the events of11 November 1975 that he was contemplating action against  Mr Whitlam  because of various statements  Mr Whitlam  had made about the Governor-General in the context of those events of11 November. I suggest that perhaps it is no coincidence that the Minister responsible for the introduction of the Norfolk Island Bill in this Parliament, with all the authoritarian apparatus it contains, with all the insensitivity it demonstrates towards democratic rights and freedoms, is none other than that same Minister, who is now in a different portfolio,  Mr R.  J. Ellicott. I support the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Button  on behalf of the Opposition. 
I seek leave to move together the Opposition's two amendments to clause 27. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
Page 13, clause 27, sub-clauses (3 ) and (4), lines 1 8 to 3 1 , leave out the sub-clauses. 
Page 14, clause 27, sub-clause (7), lines I to 3, leave out the sub-clause, insert the following sub-clause: 
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this section, the Governor-General shall not make an Ordinance providing for the raising of revenues or for the expenditure of moneys out of the Public Account of Norfolk Island '. 
The provisions as they stand confer quite extraordinary powers on the Governor-General to act quite unilaterally and, without any reference to the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly, to make an ordinance imposing taxes and authorising expenditure for the island community. When one reads clause 27 as a whole, that is the effect of it. Sub-clauses 3 and 4 are directed particularly to the matter of authorising expenditure. 
The Opposition takes the view that for power of this kind to be vested in the Governor-General and not be subject to any sanction, any power, any intervention or any redress, if the islanders are unhappy about it, by the elected Legislative Assembly, is to make absolute nonsense of the supposed scheme of the Bill which vests primary money powers in respect to activities on the island in that Legislative Assembly. Either the Government is in the business of enabling the general application of Australian taxation and expenditure laws to Norfolk Island or it is in the business, as it claims to be, of disavowing any such operation for tax and expenditure laws initiated by the Australian Government on the island. It cannot have it both ways, but this clause, as drafted, appears to try to do just that, to have it both ways. It is for that reason that the Opposition seeks the deletion of the empowering sub-clauses 3 and 4 of clause 27 and the addition of a new sub-clause 7 which says: 
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this section, the Governor-General shall not make an Ordinance providing for the raising of revenues or for the expenditure of moneys out of the Public Account of Norfolk Island. 
If such ordinances or enactments are going to be made they should be the sole prerogative of the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly. The Opposition moves accordingly. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 March 1979: 
1 ) What increase in Aboriginal population, by State and Territory, has been revealed by the 1 976 Census. 
If there has been a significant national increase, what effect will the increase have on the programs of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
When will the Aboriginal Summary Data File ofthe 1976 Census become generally available and what information will be made available through this file. 
What normal accountability procedures are used by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs under the Housing, Health, Education, Employment and Welfare States Grants Program for the performance of State Government Departments. 
5 ) Have there been occasions when the Minister and the Department of Aboriginal Affairs have been dissatisfied with the administrative performance of State Government Departments; if so, what procedures have been utilised to evaluate the performance to ensure a more effective delivery of services to the Aboriginal community. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It follows questions earlier today about the status and future of Australian and American relations. Has he seen an article by Robert Haupt in this morning's  Australian Financial Review  in which it is stated that the Dillingham compensation issue is one of the two most pressing problems for Australian diplomacy today? The other is our relations with members of the Association of South East Asian Nations. Does the Minister accept this characterisation of the importance of the Dillingham issue? If so, will he endeavour to answer the questions that  Senator Durack  was either unable to answer or unwilling to answer earlier this week? Is it the case that the United States Government- our one great friend, as the Minister put it- will be suing Australia for $23m or more in the International Court of Justice for Australia's supposed unlawful expropriation of Dillingham operations on Fraser Island? If so, does this not represent a major failure in Australia-United States diplomatic relations, one that should be causing very great concern to this Parliament and the Australian people. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether she recalls the Treasurer, in introducing the miniBudget last week, saying: 
. the general population is protected against large and potentially crippling outlays on medical services by the Government commitment to  meet  the full amount by which the scheduled fee for any service exceeds $20; 
Is it not the case that as the term 'service' is defined, treatment of most significant illnesses requires a number of different services and that in combination the cost of such services is likely, in any case of a significant illness, to very greatly exceed $20? In particular, I ask the Minister to confirm the accuracy of the report in the  Age  newspaper this morning to the effect that, for example, a pneumonia sufferer would pay for treatment about $73 of which the Government would now rebate only $3; that a basic urinary infection could cost around $100 of which only $20 would be rebated by the Government; and that the treatment for a coronary occlusion could cost as much as $450 of which as little as $6 could be refunded. 
-In the course of the examination of the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department in Estimates Committee B, a question arose with respect to the staffing of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal which has not yet been satisfactorily answered. There has been very great concern that the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, although a wholly admirable concept representing a very major and significant reform in our system of administrative law and practice, was proving to be something of a damp squib because of the unwillingness or the inability of the Government to vest significant jurisdiction in it. When the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  was pressed to explain what was proposed with respect to the resources of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, he made the point that there was a demand for jurisdiction in that the Tribunal that was running ahead of resources.  His  statement to that effect and the subsequent discussion of this point appears in the  Hansard  report of Estimates Committee B of 7 May this year at pages 282 to 283. 
The question of what precisely was the demand on the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal was then pressed in the Committee and the Attorney-General was asked to provide a detailed list of the number of heads of proposed jurisdiction for the Administrative Appeals Tribunal which were in fact in the pipeline and which were being held up or not rapidly implemented because of the present resource problem which limited the ability of the Tribunal to handle these heads of jurisdiction. On at least four occasions the specific request was made to the Attorney-General, which eventually he conceded reluctantly was a request that it was possible to meet to give some detailed indication of what the jurisdiction outstanding, as it were, might be not only with respect to his own Department but also with respect to all the other departments in the Administration where this question had arisen. 
The Committee has been treated with admirable courtesy as far as its other requests for additional information have been concerned, but regrettably it appears that this matter either was perceived to be too sensitive or perhaps was arguably in the too-hard basket. I am not sure which is the more realistic interpretation, but no answer has been received. I would very much appreciate, in the course of this Committee debate, an undertaking from the Attorney-General that the information that was properly sought in the Committee can be supplied. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications had drawn to his attention evidence given to Senate Estimates Committee B in its recent hearings, by the Commonwealth Employment Service, establishing that the overall average cost of the Australia Post courier service in metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas for the delivery of messages is $1.90 per message whereas the average cost per telegram is $3.70? Does the Minister accept that that amounts to prima facie evidence that telegrams, like most other Telecom services, are now wildly overpriced? 
I move: 
That in the opinion ofthe Senate the following is a matter of urgency 
The funding and administration ofthe High Court'. 

 Mr President, the High Court of Australia occupies a supremely strategic place, not only in our legal system but also, by virtue of its constitutional adjudication, in our political, our social and our economic system as well. Although the High Court is usually rather less visible than the other arms of government, it is at least as important as the Executive in determining the general shape and character of Australian society, and it is probably more important than this Parliament. In those circumstances, it is important that the High Court should not only be a body in whose individual membership the community has the utmost confidence but also it should be an institution which operates with maximum effectiveness in carrying out the role which the Constitution and the law assign to it. It also should be an institution which does not, by its behaviour, forfeit the respect of the community. But both the effectiveness with which the High Court is discharging its functions, and the respect in which the court is held, are matters which have given steadily increasing ground for concern in recent times, so much so that it has now reached the point where in the opinion of the Opposition the matter justifies the attention of an urgency debate in this Parliament. 
I am concerned, in this debate, not so much with the quality of the actual decisions of the court, nor with the questions relating to the appointment or performance of individual judges, although there is much to be said on these matters. I am concerned, or rather the Opposition, is concerned, with matters relating to the funding and administration of the court as a whole. There are four specific matters which have been causing particular and increasing concern in recent times. The first of these matters is the extravagance associated with the construction of the new High Court building. The second matter is the paucity and the poor quality of the information made available with respect to the operations and administration of the court. Thirdly, there is the matter of delays in the determination of cases heard by the court, even relatively straightforward cases. Fourthly, there is the poor quality of the presentation of those decisions, amounting in some cases to almost incomplete unintelligibility not only to laymen but also to lawyers. 
It is undoubtedly true that the Government has some obvious responsibility in respect of most of these matters, particularly in making funds available or not available, as the case may be. But if there is any single thread linking together and explaining these various matters of concern to the Opposition, it is the personality and behaviour of the Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick.  Sir Garfield  has dominated the High Court like a colossus since his appointment as Chief Justice fresh from the ranks ofthe coalition Ministry in 1964. However, I do not think that even  Sir Garfield's  closest judicial and regal admirers would describe that dominance as an intellectual one. The Chief Justice's opinionsvery often they have been lone, dissenting opinions- have not been such as to attract that kind of intellectual hero worship with which one associates, for better or for worse, the tenure of  Sir Owen  Dixon as Chief Justice.  Sir Garfield  Barwick 's dominance is more a matter of force of personality. 
The Chief Justice's crustiness, if I may use a relatively neutral word, on and off the bench is legendary. Moreover, regrettably,  Sir Garfield  Barwick is not a man of whom it can be said that his bark is worse than his bite. It is perfectly true that  Sir Garfield  Barwick had an outstanding reputation as an advocate- on all the evidence a thoroughly justified reputation. The trouble is that that particular reputation has not diminished one whit during his time on the bench. What he has not yet developed is his reputation as a judge. 
It is apparent that, as befits a colossus,  Sir Garfield  Barwick has strong views about his place in Australian legal history. Like  Sir John  Kerr,  Sir Garfield  Barwick certainly earned a place of a kind in that history by virtue of the role he played in the constitutional crisis of 1 975. Not content with that, nor with the uncertain memorial which his contributions to the law reports will represent, it appears that  Sir Garfield  Barwick wants a more substantial monument to his stewardship- one of concrete and steel. In that respect, he appears not to have been content with housing the Sydney bar during his leadership of it some years ago; he now wants to go down - I hesitate, because it might be unparliamentary, to describe him as the Albert Speer of the Australian judiciary- to put it politely, as the King Cheops of the Australian judicial tradition, the man to bring to the fruition the long cherished dream - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Robertson)-I  will rule on that point of order. At page 152 of  Australian Senate Practice,  Senator Evans,  it is indicated that there will be no criticism of the justices of the High Court. I think that if you could proceed to debate the topic which is before the Senate- namely, the funding and administration of the High Courtwithout making undue reflection upon the persons of the justices of that Court you would be in keeping with the traditions and practices of this place. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, whilst I appreciate the stature of  Mr Odgers'  contribution to Senate practice, I would appreciate hearing a more specific reference to the particular Standing Order on which you rely in making that determination. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Evans, I did draw attention to the traditions of this place as recorded in  Australian Senate Practice.  Whilst there is no Standing Order on this, I think that we do have certain practices and traditions which are recorded in the book and we follow them. 
With respect,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  it is very difficult indeed to talk about the administration of the High Court without referring in some detail to the particular person who, more than anyone else, is responsible for that administration. But, in deference to your ruling, I will endeavour to modify the character of my remarks. I simply conclude the point that  Sir Garfield  Barwick apparently regards himself as being the appropriate person to bring to fruition the long-cherished dream of giving Australia its own national High Court building in Canberra. For a time it did appear that  Sir Garfield  aspired not only to the erection of a tabernacle of that kind, from which he could pronounce his and the High Court's judgments, but also to the purchase of a $400,000 rural mansion in which he could sleep on those decisions. Thankfully, it appears that is one whim- if it might be so respectfully described- which the Government has not been prepared to indulge. 
Regrettably, however, this does not seem entirely true of other matters, and I come now to the particular question of the High Court building. I do not wish it to be thought that either I or the Opposition oppose the bringing of the High Court to the national capital or housing it in an edifice of an appropriately dignified stature. Anyone who has in fact witnessed at close hand the squalid, Dickensian conditions in which the court sits and the judges work in both Sydney and Melbourne could not for a moment deny the necessity for a new building. But what is not at all clear is whether the nation or indeed anyone needs the kind of building that we are going to get. On any view it is a very grand building, a very splendid building, and it has been put together at a very splendid cost to the taxpayer- on the latest projections a cost of something over $40m as compared with the original estimate of $ 18m. No doubt that factor will escalate over time until the building's scheduled completion in April next year. That fact, incidentally, does not include the cost of the furniture, fittings and equipment for the building. 
It may be that that kind of expenditure does not seem especially extravagant when compared with the $ 1 5 1 m that is proposed to be spent on the new Parliament House, an expenditure which I for one have not been backward about publicly defending. But what I think has to be appreciated is that, leaving aside for a moment the question of tourists and visitors, whereas Parliament House already accommodates some 1,500 people and will be expected to accommodate a good many more by the end of the century, and whereas the Parliament House locates not only 188 parliamentarians, the whole apparatus of the Executive heads of government and in effect the whole of the national media, the High Court's job basically as a building is just to accommodate seven judges, the court staff- now 50 and anticipated to rise perhaps to a maximum of 100- and a handful of litigants at any one time. It is true, of course, that the building will attract a good many visitors, but it is difficult to believe it will attract anything like the same number of visitors as either this Parliament or the new National Gallery, because of the relatively unspectacular character of what happens in the law by comparison with what happens here, and by comparison with what will be on show in the new National Gallery, a building of similar size- but $6m less project cost. 
The cost of the High Court building is rather like a cheap perfume- really all in the packaging. There is a gigantic public hall with a ceiling 80 feet high. There is a main ceremonial court room with a ceiling nearly 60 feet high. There is a mass of elaborately designed circulation space in and around the building. The actual working space is by comparison very small and certainly no provision appears to be made for the kind of expansion which one could reasonably expect over the course of the next few decades both in number of judges and their supporting staffs. Perhaps it is too late to be cavilling about these basic aspects of design of the High Court building, although I regret that the Parliament did not devote more attention to these matters when they were being resolved in 1972 and 1973. 
But it is not too late to cavil about the extraordinary escalation in the building's original cost which is directly attributable, if I may say so with the utmost respect, to the personal meddling of the Chief Justice. It is not for nothing- 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- The comment is made on page 152 of  Australian Senate Practice  that the judiciary is not to be criticised nor are reflections to be made on judges. I would assume that the difficulty could be resolved if the indication of the involvement of the judge could perhaps be rephrased. I think it is a matter of wording. 
It is not for nothing,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  the building has been dubbed popularly 'Gar's Mahal'. By all accounts the Chief Justice not only was associated initially with the selection of the building design but also, ever since its construction began, has been playing about with it rather like an eight year old child with a mechano set, taking a bit off here, putting a bit back there, redesigning this, fiddling with that- 
Seantor Chaney-  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I raise a point of order. This is really conducting this debate as though it were some sort of law school fun moot. To talk of the Chief Justice of the High Court as an eight year old child, I think, is not upholding the dignity of this chamber. I think that the honourable senator should be called to order. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I think that what  Senator Evans  is trying to do is to make a point about the construction of the building. Perhaps he could moderate his language to indicate what has been done without reflecting upon the Chief Justice. 
Among the things that have been done is the development of some minor but characteristic excursions into tinkering, such as the addition to the building's fabric of a British coat of arms, I am led to understand, in a quite extraordinarily and spectacularly irrelevant manifestation of a latter-day colonial cringe. This is a matter on which I raised a question in this place. Because of the obvious sensitivity and embarrassment that the Government feels on this matter. I have not yet had the courtesy of an answer. It is less these minor and symbolic matters which are in issue. What is in issue here and what justifies the very serious attention of this place to the matters that I am raising is the implication of this interference with the design of the building in terms of its cost to the pockets of Australian taxpayers. 
Seantor O'Byrne- That's better. You should quote the Standing Order. 
President, that as a matter of fact in no way can the construction of the High Court building be said to be the funding and administration of the High Court. It is a different matter altogether. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- The High Court being referred to is the new building being constructed. I think that when this is being discussed, the funding of it and its administration, including the administration of the building of the new High Court, would be appropriate under Standing Order 64. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I take your point. 
On the point of order, I made it clear in the very first sentence of my speech that I was referring to the High Court as an institution. Any institution is a combination of bricks and mortar, the people who man it and the way in which it is administered. All those things are properly within the subject matter of this motion. Although the Government is engaging with some success in a spectacular effort to reduce my speaking time, I suggest that I am perfectly in order in addressing myself to the particular matter, the costing of the High Court building being squarely within the framework of this motion. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- We are speaking about the funding of the building and I think that the administration of it will be dealt with later. 
If I get time, with your indulgence,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  The additional cost which has been attributable directly to the Chief Justice's engagement in the matters relating to the detail of building design- if I may use that circumlocution- has been acknowledged by the Government, in answers to questions put in this place, to be $2. 25m. That amount is composed, first of all, of the cost of new window treatments amounting to an extra $lm. This is attributable mainly to the installation of bullet-proof glass. I understand that the kind specified by the Chief Justice was obtainable, perhaps understandably enough, only in South Africa. Apparently this glass is to ward off the platoons of snipers which are now installing themselves in dugouts on the other side of Lake Burley Griffin. The second cost factor relates to partitioning of office areas and amounts to another $600,000. The third figure, which has been referred to and acknowledged specifically by this Government is $650,000 for the refinishing of walls and ceilings in the main court rooms in timber panelling rather than, as was part of the original design, finished concrete- finished concrete apparently not being posh enough for  Sir Garfield  Barwick and his brother justices. 
In the Press there have been further suggestions, which the Government has neither confirmed nor denied- I would be delighted to get some statement either way from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  today- that  Sir Garfield  Barwick 's excursions into architectural design on behalf of the user of the building have been much more extensive than this, amounting in true cost terms to something like $6m. Whatever the cost, it is obvious that very substantial costs have been involved. It is equally obvious, in my submission, that that extra cost has been quite indefensibly incurred. 
Another aspect of the new building which has recently caused a legitimate degree of public concern is the staffing that is to be associated with it. It has been suggested in the Press- again this has been neither confirmed nor denied by the Government- that on behalf of the Court  Sir Garfield  has submitted an application for something like another 50 staff to be associated with the manning of the new court building- which represents an increase of something like 100 per cent on the present personal, court and registry staff associated with the Court's operations- at a total cost to revenue of something like $600,000 per annum. If it were true that these staff are to be employed to improve the Court's administration which is presently pitifully inadequate- as I hope to demonstrate in a few moments if I have time- and if they are to improve the library and research facilities associated with the Court, which are presently pitifully inadequate and indeed almost nonexistent, I for one would have no objection to this kind of staffing increase. 
I would appreciate some response from the Minister on this. It seems that the great bulk of these staff will be required not for these purposes but to act as attendants or security guards in respect to the building itself, a function made necessary by the sprawling grandeur of the scale on which the building is being constructed. If it is true, as again has been reported, that the Public Service Board, with its new-found enthusiasm for stringency in all matters associated with staffing, has cut this proposed figure to something like an increase of 20, we will have the absurd result either that the building- which has been designed largely as a public building because the working aspects of it, as I said earlier, represent a very small proportion of the total fabric- will be unable to be open to the public either wholly or for a very substantial part of the time; or, more alarmingly, the building will be open but the new court will suffer dreadfully in terms of the staffing of its administration and, more particularly, its library and research facilities. 
On the available information one fears that if it becomes a choice for the Chief Justice between library and research staff or a sea of liveried flunkies around the place, the choice would be all too enthusiastically for the latter. Either way the situation seems to demonstrate an alarming lack of appreciation of proper priorities which from the very outset have attended the construction of this building and the proposals with respect to its operations. Everything that has been associated with the building and with these priorities has reflected discredit on the Court and brought it into disrespect. I suggest that that is a matter which ought to be of parliamentary concern. 
The second matter with which I propose to deal relates to the paucity and poor quality of the information which has been made available with respect to the operation and administration of the Court. Regrettably, over the years it has been almost impossible to obtain meaningful statistics about the way in which the Court operates, in terms of numbers of writs filed, the dates on which matters are heard, who hears them and the outcome of cases, other than by waiting the appearance of the published reports, which are incomplete in all of these administrative matters and in any event, do not appear officially until long after the event. Nothing on the subject appears in the  Commonwealth Year Book,  or in reports to the Parliament. 
The only glimmer of hope in this respectsince 1 have been critical of the Chief Justice in what I have said so far let me balance it with a plaudit where it is due- has been the introduction of the biennial speech by the Chief Justice on 'The State ofthe Australian Judicature'. This speech was inaugurated two years ago, and we are about to hear, I hope, another in Adelaide this July. That speech does incorporate some admittedly inadequate statistics, but they are better than what we had previously. However, that sort of publicly available information about the administration of the Court does not go far enough. It is depressing to record that the Court, and those responsible for its administration seem to be quite unwilling to go further. It appears that the Court, and in particular the Chief Justice, believe in giving out only that information which is regarded as 'appropriate'. The Chief Justice seems to believe in giving out information only on his own terms. 
On 24 November last year I placed a Question on the Notice Paper which sought some relatively straightforward and routine statistical information about the operation of the Court. It concerned matters to which I referred before, such as when writs are filed, when cases are heard and so on. On 27 March, fully four months later, I received from the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  a reply which said in essence that, because of administrative difficulties and the unavailability of staff, the Court and the Attorney-General were not in a position to provide the information sought. That would be depressing enough if it were true and it would illustrate the points I make about the inadequacy of the administrative arrangements which have been traditionally associated with the Court. But, regrettably, I fear that even that is not the whole answer. I have reason to suspect that the real reason I did not get this information was a desire on the part of the Chief Justice to ensure that no questions be answered which would expose to public and parliamentary scrutiny - 
I appreciate that,  Mr President.  I have heard that said many times during the last 25 minutes I have been making my speech. But no one has been able to point to any Standing Order to that effect. The matters to which I refer are not mere personal abuse. They are matters related to the administration of this Court - 
It seems to me that in this place far too much attention is devoted to the decencies of procedure and far too little attention is devoted to the indecencies perpetrated by people in high public office. There is nothing in the material that 1 have had before me orin anything that has been said by the Government which dissuades me from the belief that there has been direct personal intervention by the Chief Justice to stop the communication of this basic and straightforward information. If the Attorney-General is in a position to deny that I would be delighted to hear it. It worries me, and it ought to worry every Australian that there is a secrecy and an obsessive mystique about the way in which this Court operates. It is a mystique and secrecy which inevitably is very largely the product of the leadership of the Court, because that is the way in which it has always operated. It is a matter for very great regret that the Australian people, and even Australian parliamentarians, cannot get the information that is necessary to make informed judgments about the way in which this supremely important institution operates. 
There are other matters which, had I but more than two minutes left to me, I would be wanting to express in more detail. For instance, I would refer to delays in the determination of cases heard by the Court. In the absence of the kind of figures that I have been endeavouring to get out of the Court administration, it is difficult to obtain anything more than an expressionistic feeling for this matter. From the expressionistic response that one gets, simply from scanning the publicly-available information, it is obvious that delays of eight, nine or 10 months, even in matters involving directly and immediately the liberty of the subject are commonplace in this Court. I am talking not about delays in the setting down of matters for hearing but in their adjudication- the time between when they are heard and the time when judgments emerge. 
In one case I recall, that of Atlas Tiles v. Briers, a delay occurred between the matter being finally heard, in May 1976, and a decision coming down, in October 1978, of 2 years and 5 months. On any view, such a delay is indefensible. Of course, one can never eliminate that sort of thing entirely. There is a whole variety of reasons for it, but a number of obvious organisational improvements could be made in the Court, improvements associated both with the number and level of the research staff made available to the Court and, more particularly, in the way in which the Court does its business. Such improvements could alleviate substantially the delay situation. So far as the organisation of the Court's business is concerned- this is one of the points that I intended to make under my final heading about the presentation of Court decisions- one of the most gruelling aspects of any attempt to get an appreciation, not only in the legal profession but also amongst members of the public at large, of what the Court is doing, is created by the unintelligible manner of presentation of Court judgments- I mean by that primarily the way in which nearly every case has a multiplicity of individual judgments. From seven judges we have often received seven individual opinions, with no attempt made by the Court to draw those opinions together and reduce to an intelligible result by intelligible reasoning, the basis of the decision in question, lt is that kind of administrative situation, taken with all the other things that I have mentioned, which justifies the very genuine concern that has been expressed by the Opposition on this occasion. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1) Did the Government, in August 1976, suspend the activities of the Northern Territory Interim Land Commissioner, the late  Mr Justice  R. C. Ward, with regard to his hearing Aboriginal needs claims to town and other areas in the Northern Territory. 
Did the then Minister,  Mr Viner,  state that these matters would be pursued jointly by the then Department of the Northern Territory and the Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs and any claims so recommended would bc granted. 
What claims, if any, were lodged with  Mr Justice  Ward and his successors, if any. 
When  Mr Justice  Ward's activities were suspended, what was the then status of each claim referred to in (3) above. 
What claims have the Department ofthe Northern Territory, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs or the Northern Territory Government in fact granted to date. 
What is the position with regard to the remainder of claims referred to in (3) above which have not to date been grunted. 
Are these remaining claims being processed; if so, by whom and with what results to date. 
What is the impact upon each ofthe claims referred to in ( 3 ) above of the recent gazettal by the Northern Territory Government of land surrounding  towns in  the Northern Territory as urban land. 
Does the Commonwealth Government intend to process with dispatch outstanding claims referred to in (6) above so that Aboriginal needs can be mct; if not, why not. 
10) What is the responsibility of, respectively, the Commonwealth Government, and the Northern Territory Government in this matter. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
Was a freeze imposed in or about December 1972 upon the alienation of land in the Northern Territory in order not to prejudice future possible Aboriginal land claims. 
Upon what date, by what means, by whom, with regard to what land, and with regard to what interests in that land was such a freeze originally imposed. 
By what means, by whom, with regard to what land, and with regard to what interests in that land, was the abovementioned freeze continued in existence by: (a) the former Whitlam Labor Government; (b) the current Fraser Government; (c) the Northern Territory Government. 
What is the Fraser Government's current position with regard to this freeze in the Northern Territory. 
5 ) What was the effect of the Northern Territory Government 's announcement, in or about August 1978, that the abovementioned freeze was to be partially lifted. 
In particular, what was its effect with regard to unalienated land in the Northern Territory as to which: (a) a traditional Aboriginal land claim had not been lodged and accepted by the Northern Territory Aboriginal Land Commissioner as at August 1978; (b) traditional Aboriginal land claim had been lodged but not processed by the Aboriginal Land Commissioner as at August 1978; and (c) a traditional land claim, as at August 1978 had been lodged and processed by the Aboriginal Land Commissioner, which claim was partly or wholly unsuccessful. 
Does the recent gazettal of areas surrounding Darwin, Katherine, Tennant Creek and Alice Springs in the Northern Territory  Gazette  of 29 December 1978 as town-areas and not vacant Crown land directly contravene Government policy concerning the above land freeze. 
What action will the Minister take to correct this apparent attempt by the Northern Territory. Government to frustrate legitimate Aboriginal Land Claims in areas surrounding towns, and to prevent similar action in future. 
10) In particular, will the Minister, if necessary, amend the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 to provide for: (a) needs claims, as appeared in Clause S of Land Rights Bill introduced by the Labor Government in 197S; and (b) a legislative basis for the abovementioned freeze until such time as all possible Aboriginal claims to land in the Northern Territory are both lodged and processed by the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. 
I present the following petition from 173 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate 'is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations. I refer to the summary dismissal last Thursday of two airline traffic clerks in Melbourne-  Mr Michael  Atkinson of TransAustralia Airlines and  Mrs Carol  Stamp of Ansett Airlines of Australia- both of whom have been involved in organising a new union, the Airline Employees Association. These dismissals have already resulted in a degree of industrial disputation around Australia. Does the Minister agree that these dismissals appear to be blatant and quite intolerable instances of employer intimidation of legitimate trade union activity? Will he set in train an investigation to determine whether the dismissals contravene the industrial intimidation provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act introduced in 1977, or does the Government regard its only obligation in industrial relations as being to protect employers? 

 -Mr President, I claim to have been misrepresented. In the course of my remarks last Thursday in the debate on the High Court of Australia I had occasion to make reference to  Sir Garfield  Barwick 's 'closest judicial and legal admirers'. By one of those inspired but presumably inadvertent slips that afflict even the most professional publishing enterprise this reference appears in the daily  Hansard  as a reference to  Sir Garfield  Barwick 's judicial and regal admirers'. I do not know whether  Sir Garfield  has any regal or royal friends and I certainly would not presume to speculate on that subject. However, I would certainly not wish it to be thought, particularly after 1975, that I assumed that he had any such admirers. Accordingly, I would appreciate it if that correction could be noted pending the appearance of the weekly  Hansard. 
I give notice that, 10 sitting days after today, I shall move: 
That the Audit (Exempt Accounts) Regulations, contained in Statutory Rules 1979 No. 67, and made under the Audit Act 1901, be disallowed. 
I seek leave to make a brief statement on this notice of motion. 
Leave granted. 
Today is the last day for giving notice of motion in relation to these regulations. I give it on my own behalf rather than that of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee because the Committee is in fact divided in its opinion on this matter. The regulations in question have on their face the effect of making eligible for complete immunity from the scrutiny of the Auditor-General not only the whole accounts of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Australian Security Intelligence Service but also the whole of the accounts of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. They raise very important questions of principle which it is important that both the Committee and the relevant Ministers, with whom there has been some correspondence already on this matter, have further time to consider before the Senate deals with the matter. Accordingly I have given notice of motion in terms which would allow that further consideration to take place. 
My question, which is to the Attorney-General, relates to the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act and follows a number of earlier questions on that subject put in this chamber by both  Senator Button  and me. I ask: When will the Act be proclaimed? Will the Attorney-General table the Administrative Review Council 's report, to which he referred in his answer to  Senator Button  as long ago as 28 February? Further, is he now able to say how many requests for exclusion have been received by him from Government departments following their consideration of the Council 's report? 

 -Mr Deputy President, this is not a Bill, as it claims to be, about the efficient and economical use of Public Service resources. If it were the Opposition would support it wholeheartedly. It would be consistent with our attitudes when the Labor Party was in government of setting up the Coombs Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, and our acceptance of that inquiry's recommendations. It would be consistent with the explicit terms of the Australian Labor Party platform, which emphasises not only that the Public Service should be politically responsive in the sense of being capable of satisfying the requirements of the elected government of the day, and not only that the Public Service be responsive and accountable to the community as a whole, but also that the Public Service should operate with the maximum efficiency in delivering analysis, advice and program implementation. 
Furthermore, it would be consistent with the whole philosophy of the Australian Labor Party, which gives a quite central place to the public sector and the Public Service, not just because we believe that that is a fairer and more equitable way of organising enterprise and distributing national resources, but because we believe it is a genuinely more efficient way of organising the nation's affairs. It is a corollary of that philosophy. It is entirely consistent with that philosophy that we should be keener even than our Tory opponents to create and to maintain a Public Service which operates in a genuinely efficient and economic manner. 
But the Bill is not about these things. Despite the denials by  Senator Walters  and all the rest of the Government spokesmen and spokeswomen on this subject the Bill is about retrenchment. It will enable the Government to maintain its arbitrarily and irrationally imposed staff ceilings. It will enable the Government to reduce the public sector wage bill and help get itself out of the dilemma- get itself off the hook- into which, with its wild promises about reducing the deficit, it has got itself. It will permit retrenchment in the pursuit of that passionate ideological antagonism to the public sector which is shared in common by Ayn Rand, Malcolm Fraser and a handful of his even more evangelically inclined Ministers and back benchers, but which is not shared by anyone else very much in the Government, and certainly not in the community as a whole. Moreover, as  Senator Button  pointed out, it is retrenchment in blatant breach of the election promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in November 1977 when he said, in that letter of 25 November 1977, which was tabled by  Senator Button: 
It has been our express policy to avoid retrenchments, and this will continue. 
Furthermore, he said   . . in general there will be stability in the service- 
In the kind of retrenchment provisions which this Bill contains and is all about, we have another broken promise to add to that long, sordid, squalid list which has been lengthening with every day this Government remains in office. There is no doubt that this Bill is about retrenchment. But of course the word retrenchment appears nowhere in the text. Instead, we have that quite extraordinary euphemism' management initiated early retirement'. That is not just an ordinary common garden euphemism. That, I would suggest to the Senate, is the most grotesque euphemism to have been invented since the Nazis described genocidal murder of their concentration camp victims as 'special treatment'. It is claimed by the Government that the powers of redeployment and dismissal are already set out in the Public Service Act and that this Bill is doing nothing more than that which is already in the statute book. It is claimed also that this Bill contains nothing which is uniquely new or uniquely nasty, that all this Bill does is to streamline the procedures and to confer particularly in the new appeal mechanism, new protections upon employees associated with the redeployment and compulsory retirement process. But the claim that this Bill somehow operates to the advantage of employees in the Public sector rings quite hollow when it is weighted against the unanimous opposition of employees and Public Service unions to this particular measure. 
The reason the Government has created the new mechanism, the new procedures in this Bill, is that it now wants to use the powers which have grown rusty with disuse over the years. It wants to lubricate the mechanism and put it to work. The existing Public Service powers are clumsy and blunt instruments. The new powers contained in this legislation are much more refined and sophisticated. But the difference is just that between the club and the garrotte- the victim in either event will be just as dead. The only real difference is that with this much more sophisticated legislation, it is much more likely that the victim will be condemned in the first place. 
There should be no doubt at all about this question of the Government's bona fides with this legislation. If anyone had any lingering doubt about the Government's intentions with respect to the Public Service, it is only those who are unfortunate enough to be both deaf- like  Mr Newman-  and blind who could be in any doubt about this Government's intention. It is apparent if one looks at the record. We have seen already in the last three years a reduction of over 13,500 officers in the Public Service. We have seen already 300 Medibank employees declared redundant, with goodness knows how many more joining that category as a result of the latest and greatest exercise in the Government's avoidance of its health care obligations. We have seen already the irrational and arbitrary imposition of staff ceilings, the implications of which are becoming clearer with each passing day. The implications are: Huge additional strains on officers at all levels, particularly senior levels, in the Public Service; a consequent decline in the speed and efficiency with which the Public Service performs its functions; and the collapse of innumerable staff training and development programs. The result of that will have long term implications and will cause problems in the quality of Public Service performance. 
We have a government which has demonstrated all too clearly in respect to everything to do with the Public Service and the public sector that it is on an ideological rampage. Large scale forced retrenchments are the logical next step in the Government's timetable. This is the Bill that will make possible that next step. I say further that the real lunacy of the Government's approach, as I described it, is that quite apart from everything else it is the very opposite of" the kind of strategy which is required by the present economic situation in which we have just on half a million people registered as unemployed- 7 per cent of the work force. God alone knows how many others are in the category of the hidden unemployed. We have a situation in which for every 20 minutes of every 24 hours that this Fraser Government has been in office another Australian has joined the dole queue. 
We are facing an economy in which prospects for the private sector, not only in the short term and the medium term but also, it has to be admitted, in the long term, are still exceedingly gloomy. The only real prospect of growth in employment in the long term is in the public sector, in the delivery of more and better public services to the community as a whole, and in the development of public enterprise. I refer to all those areas in which private capital has demonstrated traditionally either its unwillingness or its inability to take the necessary research and development risks and for which private capital just is not available, at least within Australia, to set major projects in train. So far from being willing to think creatively and constructively in these terms and to develop a public service and a public sector which are dynamic and innovative and of a size to cope with the new demands that are being placed upon them, the Government has set its face in a dog-in-the-manger fashion against the public sector and all its works. It has not engaged in building a public service and a public sector to meet the very real challenges of the 1980s. What it is doing is tearing down and destroying the public sector that we have now. Once again, it is this Bill that is going to be the mechanism which makes that destruction finally possible. 

 Senator Walters, like so many other Government spokespersons, has claimed that this Bill is the product of consultation. But what a very strange kind of consultation it has been. It reminds me of nothing so much as the kind of consultation in which a judge engages with an accused when he asks: 'Is there anything you want to say before I condemn you to death?' Everything about this Bill- the criteria which it prescribes for action to be taken, the appeal procedures which it provides and various so-called sweeteners that it contains- demonstrates that it is the product of a government which really has consulted only with itself and has incorporated within the text of the Bill nothing more than the content of its own prejudices. 
Let us look at the major features of this Bill in order to justify those assertions which I have just made. Let us look first at the criteria on which action will be taken, as this Bill now stands. The Bill specifies three criteria which are going to be applied to set in train redeployment and retirement action. The first of those criteria, all of which are set out in clause 7 of the Bill, is the criteria of numerical excess which relates to a situation where numbers in a particular department or area of the Public Service are greater than necessary for the efficient and economical working of that particular department, authority or area. Who is to determine whether there is such an excess? In the first place, such a determination or decision is in the hands of the Government itself. By cutting off a particular program or by reducing the scope or scale of a particular program the Government, by its own action will create immediately the pre-conditions for the operation of any conceivable set of procedures that might be created under the framework of this legislation. It is in this sense that the claims of the Public Service unions and of many critical commentators on this Bill, that the Bill is really creating conditions for political manipulation of the public service, are fully justified. 
The second decision maker that is identified, this time more specifically in the text of the Bill itself, is the Public Service Board. Not only is it given by this legislation the very important power to prescribe the procedures which will apply in determining whether an excess situation exists- which procedures can be as wide an loose or as narrow and circumscribed as the Public Service Board chooses- but also it is vested with a quite specific power under clause 8 (3) (c) to identify not only general criteria but also particular employees who are to be the subject of redeployment compulsory action. 
 Thirdly- and only thirdly- in the list, the Bill provides for the permanent head of a department to make decisions about excess numbers. But in most instances, of course, the freedom of action of the permanent head will be circumscribed and constrained very narrowly by the procedures which the Public Service Board lays down. Given those procedures, the decision of the permanent head, for the most part, will be inevitable. The permanent head will be acting essentially as a rubber stamp. In this respect it is to be noted that it is just not so- as the Minister claimed in various statements that have been made, in particular his Press release of 20 Maythat this Bill embodies the substance and spirit of recommendation 178 of the Coombs inquiry to the effect that the diagnosis of excess staff should be a decision-making power which is vested in departmental management rather than in the Public Service Board. Even a most cursory reading of the text of this Bill will demonstrate that that is just not so. The real decision-making is done at the Public Service Board level. In the Minister's claim we have yet another example of the kind of distortion which regrettably is becoming a way of life for this Government. That is the criterion of excess numbers. 
The second criterion, with which the Opposition has less complaint in view of the way it is drawn in the Bill, is that criterion of physical or mental incapacity or invalidity. It is agreed that there can be no argument about retirement or redeployment being contingent upon a properly made finding to that effect. The third criterion has attracted quite properly a great deal of critical attention and indeed has been the centrepiece of most of the debate on this Bill. This is the criterion which says that someone can be brought within the provisions of this Bill for 'any other prescribed reasons'. What are the grounds that the Government has in mind in using this particular formula? Is it loss of efficiency on the part of an individual officer such that he no longer is capable of performing the job that he is paid to do? If so, there could be little dispute by the Opposition with the application of this kind of criterion, although, of course, one would need perhaps some rather precise drafting to ensure that it did not work unfairly or improperly in the case of a particular employee. 
Is the criterion to be prescribed under that open-ended head or, on the other hand, as the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has also suggested, on a situation in which the officer in question loses his licence or some educational qualification and as a result becomes unable to perform the job in question? If so, again the Opposition could have little dispute with a properly drawn provision of that kind appearing in the legislation. But if that is all that the Minister has in mind- if those are the only kinds of situations which are genuinely intended to be dealt with under clause 7- why are those additional criteria not set out in the text of the Bill? That is what the Opposition will be suggesting by way of an amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time and, if we get to it, in the Committee stage. 
It is true, of course, that any particular reason which subsequently might be decided upon by the Government has to be the subject of a regulation and that regulation in turn can be disallowed by this Parliament. But that is a most uncertain remedy for a legislative situation which is in need of redress. We all know perfectly well that when the Government determines a particular policy and embodies that policy in its legislation there is very little chance of this Parliament doing anything to overturn that legislation. Furthermore, we know that there is no chance at all of the Parliament doing anything to overturn a regulation during those five or six months each year when the Parliament is in recess. During that period, if the Government promulgates a regulation, it would have open slather to perpetrate any kind of retrenchment situation it wanted to bring about. For that reason, we have said throughout this debate and we will go on saying that the particular criteria which the Government has in mind that it can justify ought to be set out and specifically embodied in the text of this legislation. Failure to do so can only lead one to the conclusion that the Government has something to hide; that it has the intention of prescribing regulations and of prescribing reasons in those regulations which range much more broadly, much more widely, much more indefensibly than those reasons which have been articulated by the Government spokesman so far. 
Then there is the question of the appeal procedures which are provided by this legislation. There are several very important inadequacies to note about those. The first is that the scope of the appeal rights set out in the legislation is very limited indeed. For a start, no right of appeal against a Public Service Board direction is available under clause 8 of the Bill, which can have effect not only in general procedural terms but also in relation to particular employees. A right of appeal ought to be so prescribed there. Even more importantly, no right of appeal is provided against any initial judgment which is made by a permanent head in accordance with the Public Service Board criteria that a particular area or category of employment in fact is overmanned. Thus, as the editorial in the  Canberra Times  of 28 May stated:   . . there is no guarantee that such judgments will not be made as sloppily arbitrarily and as damagingly as comparable decisions about staff ceilings have been during the past three years. 
The Opposition endorses and echoes those sentiments. It is not only the scope of the appeal but also the procedures of the appeal which, again quite accurately and legitimately, justify hostile attention being paid to this Bill. The Bill in fact creates a quite substantial disincentive to anyone who is declared eligible for retirement or redeployment appealing against that declaration. For a start, by appealing, which is necessarily a time-consuming process, an employee will lose his place in the redeployment queue for the reasons articulated by  Senator Button.  A clause in the Bill states that a person cannot actually be redeployed while he still has an appeal on foot. If a person wants to get a place in the queue and to have a chance of finding another job in the Public Service, either he has to waive his appeal or wait for it to be determined. Furthermore, there is the famous 'dobbing in your mates' clause, as it has been quite accurately described. That provision in the legislation makes it clear that the price of a successful appeal by an employee is that one's fellow employees- one or more of them- will be declared in his place. What employee will embark upon an appeal procedure with that prospect, with all the odour that will attach to it, hanging over his head? 
-They do it all the time in the context of a promotion appeal, but it is a very different matter fighting someone over a promotion slot and fighting for one's actual employment survival in the Public Service in a situation in which there is such a manifest paucity of other jobs to go to. That is the distinction which I would have thought even someone such as  Senator Hamer  would have been sensitive enough to appreciate. The Government claims that any variation in the appeals procedure would create interminable delays while successive appeals were resolved in a long chain. Let me say just two things in answer to that. First of all, even if that is the result of conferring appeal rights in the way in which the Opposition suggests that they ought to be conferred- it is by no means clear that in practice it will work that way- the Opposition still would persist with that point because we say that a procedure of that kind may just be the price which has to be paid for both the appearance and the reality of a just, fair and equitable appellate system. 
Morever, perhaps the further point needs to be made, if the Government has not appreciated it already after the events of the last few weeks, that the delays which might be associated with a rewritten appeals clause might well prove to be as nothing compared with the kind of industrial disruption which the Government might have to come to expect if this situation is not remedied. The Public Service unions and employees already have shown that they are not prepared to lie down and be run over by this legislation. It can be assumed that the implementation of those unfair procedures will provoke the inevitable industrial response. 
Finally, looking at the basic substance of the Bill, let me refer to what have been described as the 'golden handshake', or the 'sweetener' provisions of the Bill. The Government has made much of the special benefit lump sum pay-out provisions which the Bill contains. It has expressed some surprise that the Public Service unions are not responding with dog-like devotion, with tail-wagging appreciation, to the Government's largesse. What is the situation with respect to those lump sum payments? First of all, as far as the payments for voluntary retirements are concerned and the provisions for voluntary retirement, it is true that the voluntary retirement at the age of 55 years, for which the Bill provides, is something for which the Public Service unions have long fought. It is something for which the Bill does provide and, on the face of it, the unions as a result ought to be grateful. Morever, the Public Service as a whole and the community as a whole should be grateful for the incorporation of those provisions. 
The Public Service should be grateful because it will make possible a rational solution to quite a long-standing problem in Public Service staffing, which has become particularly apparent in recent years, that is, the problem of the 'middleaged hump', as it has been described- the situation where departments have a high percentage of senior people near retirement age. Early retirement provisions will enable the Government to blood younger talent and to encourage a greater degree of career mobility. Furthermore, it is in the interests, one would have thought, of the community as a whole for a pace-setting job in early retirement to be done at the governmental level simply because, with the acute and chronic unemployment situation that we now seem to be creating, it is apparent that the community as a whole will have to adjust to the kind of work-sharing mechanisms of which early retirement is just one. 
There are all sorts of good reasons for the unions and employees, for the Public Service and for the community at large, to applaud the enactment of the voluntary retirement provisions of this Bill. But they are not provisions which are to be supported as the Government seems to think they ought to be supported, at all costs and with no account being paid to the price of those particular desirable innovations. The unions have demonstrated their good faith throughout this whole controversy. They have made it clear, and rightly so, that if those voluntary retirement provisions are to be the price of the rest of the Bill - the trade-off for the sack, as it were- they will not have a bar of them. 
The compulsory retirement provisions of the Bill are the other aspects of the Bill which have attracted the Government's claim that its largesse is spectacular and ought not to be challenged in any way. But the benefits there are no better than a bad joke. They are very limited in scope. They are very limited in amount. We have been told by the Minister that there will be lump sum payouts provided for certain classes of people who are declared eligible for redeployment and who are subsequently retired. Clause 23 of the Bill provides a framework for such benefits to be made. 
But the Minister's second reading speech and other public statements he has made make it very clear that the conditions on which those benefits will be paid out are so circumscribed as to be almost ludicrous. In the first place they are available only for those people who are going to be retired for the category of 'other prescribed reasons', which has been the subject of so much attention. This is the clause 7 (3) (b) provision. They are not going to be available for people who are retired for reasons of being excess to requirements, the centrepiece, the real practical area of concern so far as this Bill is concerned. 
Yes, but that determination 509, as  Senator Knight  will be well aware, provides only a very limited transitional scale of benefits and is not on the same scale, as I understand it, as the benefits which are payable to those lucky few who benefit under the provisions of the intended regulations under clause 23. Secondly, it is apparent that the benefits that are to be prescribed under clause 23 are very far from being on a lavish scale. The most that could be expected, the maximum payout for the mainstream fourth division clerical assistants, is of the order of $6,000- perhaps $6,300, which is not exactly the kind of golden handshake which is calculated to lead to a long, happy and prosperous retirement. 
But most of all- and this demonstrates another inadequacy- this payout is not available for anyone under the age of 55, for whatever reason such a person might be retrenched. The Minister had clearly said that this benefit, this sweetener that  Senator Knight  is so keen about, which he told the Press he argued for so vigorously in the party room in order to preserve his fading constituency in Canberra, will be confined to those over the age of 55 because it is in recognition of the difficulties that people over that age will have in obtaining another job. But has the Minister any idea of how hard it is in the present economic climate not just for people over the age of 55 to obtain another job but for people over the age of 50, people over the age of 45 and people even younger than that? Is he not aware, is the Government not aware, that this age limit is an arbitrary stipulation which bears no resemblance to contemporary reality and that it will have the effect of consigning permanently to the employment scrap heap very many people who are in the prime of their working life? On the evidence of this Bill, the Government will watch these people go onto the economic scrap heap with no more humane emotion than one of cynical detachment, an attitude which has characterised not only its production of this piece of legislation but so much else of what it has been responsible for. 
-The Minister in his reply demonstrates a regrettable lack of familiarity with the terms of the legislation with which he is dealing. Also I suspect a failure to listen to the substance of the point  Senator Harradine  was making which was not limited simply to parliamentary departments but also related to prescribed Commonwealth authorities. If the Minister would direct his attention to subsection (2) of clause 28 he would appreciate that this capacity to modify the effect of the Act is by no means confined to parliamentary departments. It extends to the whole range of prescribed Commonwealth authorities. As that expression is denned in the early part of the Act it is apparent that the Act is capable of modification in this way across the whole range of departments and statutory authorities. On that basis it is a very significant point indeed that  Senator Harradine  is raising. Indeed, it is one which the Opposition intended to raise at the Committee stage. We are at least as worried about it as  Senator Harradine  and at least as anxious as  Senator Harradine  is to have this matter referred to a parliamentary committee. 

 Senator CHANEY (Western AustraliaMinister for Aboriginal Affairs)- by leave- The comments I made related to  Senator Harradine  's points insofar as they relate to the Parliament. I have nothing further to add. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator  Harradine's) be agreed to. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  to direct his attention specifically to clause 8 (3) (c) and to explain for the benefit of the Senate precisely why this clause is in this Bill in those terms, particularly when so much effort has been devoted by the Minister and the Government in defending this Bill to saying that the real responsibility for making specific eligibility for redeployment decisions is vested in the permanent head of the department concerned rather than the Public Service Board. The Minister has said that the philosophy of recommendation No. 178 of the Coombs Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration has been embodied in the Bill. That recommendation of the Coombs Royal Commission was, of course, that which says: 
We recommend that the power to diagnose any excess of staff and to identify and take action regarding particular redundant officers under section 20 - 
The reference there is to the Public Service Act-  be delegated to departmental management. 
When one looks by contrast at clause 8 (3) (c) one will notice that a procedure is there set out whereby the Public Service Board itself can have the power to direct in effect that particular employees or particular classes of employees be declared eligible for redeployment and retirement. The way this works, as clause 8(3)(c) stands, is that in the procedures which the Public Service Board itself writes there may be contained a provision which enables the Public Service Board itself to give a notice in writing to the permanent head of the department 'to direct that effect be given to the procedures in relation to a specified employee or a specified class of employees'. So we have a situation here where the Public Service Board, with all the might, majesty and remoteness from the battlefield that that Board might be thought to have, given the way its role has been described by the Minister and the Government in defending this legislation, is given by this provision the power to descend very specifically to the battlefield and to single out particular individual employees as eligible for redeployment and retirement under this Act. This would appear to be a provision which is at odds with both the recommendation of the Coombs Royal Commission and the stated philosophy of the Government in introducing this legislation and in defending its terms. 
-With respect, that is all very well. But what does it mean to give effect to procedures with respect to a particular individual? I can imagine the reply of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  being in the terms he stated if one is talking about the application of the procedures to a particular department or to a particular group of employees. But if it is a matter of giving effect to the procedures in relation to a particular individual employee, I am afraid I cannot give that any other meaning than that this is a situation where the Public Service Board is empowered to single out a particular employee as being eligible for a redeployment declaration within the terms of the Act. I really think that the Minister has to address himself to that question if he is to give any satisfaction in his answer on this point. 
-by leave -I move: 
Clause 9, page 6, after sub-paragraph ( 1 ) (b) (i) insert the following sub-paragraph: (ia) shall make such findings as may be necessary to apply the procedures set out in a notice in force under subsection 8(1) (including any directions given by the Public Service Board under those procedures) insofar as they are relevant to the operation of the Department, to the Department; and '. 
Clause 9, page 6, line 36, after 'under sub-section 8(1)' insert 'and in accordance with a finding made pursuant to sub-paragraph (ia)'. 
Clause 9, page 7, after sub-paragraph (2) (b) (i) insert the following sub-paragraph: (ia) shall make such findings as may be necessary to apply the procedures set out in a notice in force under subsection 8(2) (including any directions given by the Public Service Board under those procedures) insofar as they are relevant to the operation of the Department, to the Department; and'. 
Clause 9, page7, line 9, after 'under sub-section 8 (2 ) ' insert 'and in accordance with a finding made pursuant to subparagraph (ia)'. 
These amendments together have the primary effect of creating a springboard from which an appeal can be launched if clause 1 5 is amended subsequently in the way that we propose. There is a conceptual link between these proposed amendments to clause 9 and the further amendments to clause 15 which I foreshadow at this stage. The Opposition's concern in these amendments which I have moved is to ensure not only that there is a right of appeal possible with respect to the decision to identify a particular employee as being an appropriate candidate for redeployment in an excess situation, but also that there is a possibility of an appeal against the decision that there is an excess within a particular department or within a particular area of government. As the Bill stands at the moment there is no such right of appeal vested in the individual who might be subject to the effect of any such decision. The most that any individual can do is wait until he is singled out as being a candidate for redeployment. He is not in the position of being able to appeal against what in many ways is the more crucial prior decision that an overmanning or an over-staffing situation exists in a particular department in accordance with the application of the procedures or the criteria which have been laid down by the Board. Accordingly, to return specifically to these proposed amendments to clause 9, which are addressed successively to - 
There is a difficulty about that to the extent that we propose to move to clause 9 a further amendment which deals with a different point altogether.  Senator Ryan  proposes to move that amendment. It deals with the notice requirements under that clause. It may be as well if I were to seek leave to canvass now the proposed amendments to clause 15 and to deal in debate with those proposed amendments to clause 15 at the same time as I deal with these amendments to clause 9. We can postpone the actual vote on the clause 15 amendments until we get to them, if that course is satisfactory. 
I move: 
Clause IS, page 12, after paragraph (a) insert the following paragraphs: (aa) the issue of a notice in writing under paragraph 8(3) (c) in relation to the employee or a specified class of employees of which the employee is a member; (ab) the making of a finding under sub-paragraph 9 ( 1 ) (b) (ia) or 9 (2) (b) (ia) in relation to the employee or a specified class of employees of which the employee is a member.'. 
I do not, of course, seek to canvass again the arguments in support of that amendment which I put in respect of clause 9. But I ask the Minster for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  specifically to respond in respect of proposed new paragraph (aa) to which he did not address himself in reply to my previous amendment. I ask him to indicate whether the Government will or will not accept that it is proper that a right of appeal be given in respect to a notice in writing given by the Public Service Board in accordance with clause 8 (3) (c). I understand that the Minister did acknowledge in his earlier remarks on clause 8 (3) (c) that that particular provision might indeed have an application to a particular employee, for example in an incapacity or invalidity situation. I would ask the Minister whether in those circumstances it is not appropriate that such an individual, who might be clearly prejudiced in such a way by such a specific Public Service Board direction or notice in writing, should not have a right of appeal against such a determination. 
by leave -I move: 
Clause IS, page 12, lines 41 and 42, leave out subparagraph (2) (a) (iii). 
Clause IS, page 13, lines 2S-46, leave out sub-clauses (S) and (6). 
These are the amendments which are directed at removing the notorious 'dobbing in one's mates' provisions of the Bill, the inequity of which was the subject of extensive comment during the second reading debate. Consequently I do not think they need to be further explored now. The only point that the Opposition wishes to make in further defence of its attitude and the attitude of the Public Service unions on this clause is in answer to the numerous assertions by various Government senators that there is really no difference between these procedures and the procedures which presently apply in relation to promotion appeals. The Opposition makes the point, and makes the point very strenuously, that there is a fundamental and very obvious distinction between knocking off one's mate, as it were, in a promotion competition situation and in knocking off one's mate in a situation where what is in issue is retrenchment and the very survival of one's employment position. I do not think the amendments need to be further expounded upon by the Opposition. We urge very strenuously the acceptance of these amendments. 
-There are two questions on which the Opposition would seek enlightenment from the Minister in relation to the remaining clauses of the Bill. The first concerns clause 23, which makes provision for regulations prescribing certain special benefits. It is perhaps not unfair to say that something of a saga of confusion and uncertainty has surrounded the potential application  of clause 23.  As it stands, on its face clause 23 is really rather general in its application and makes possible the payment of special benefits in respect to a person declared eligible for redeployment for either a reason referred to in clause 7(1) (b) (i), the excess-to-requirements sub-section or one referred to in clause 7 ( 1 ) (b) (iii), the notoriously uncertain provision which enables the prescription of any other reason that the Government may choose to think of as a ground for redeployment. 
Clause 23 then, on its face, does enable the payment of special benefits in an excesstorequirements, or surplus, situation, as well as for a special reason under clause 7 ( 1) (b) (iii). However, in the second reading speech of the Leader of the Government  (Senator Carrick)  it was made clear, as indeed it has been in subsequent statements that he has made, that the proposed special benefits that are to be provided under this particular clause are to be confined in operation to persons in an 'any other prescribed reason' category, as described by paragraph (iii) of clause 7(1) (b); that such benefits are not to be extended to persons in the excesstorequirements category. Moreover, it has become apparent that the benefits are only, in any event, intended to be made payable to persons over the age of 55. 
Given all that, my question to the Minister is: If it is the intention of the Government to circumscribe in this way the benefits that are payable under the regulations which will be prescribed under clause 23, why on earth was clause 23 written in such misleadingly wide terms? Can we anticipate that some governmental largesse will in fact be made available at a later stage to persons declared eligible for redeployment for excess-to-requirements reasons, or is there some other reason why clause 23 has been so drafted? 
The other question on which the Opposition would require a further and better answer from the Minister than it has had the benefit of so far is in relation to clause 28. The Minister may have been able to avoid giving a straight answer on that clause previously by taking the debating point that  Senator Harradine,  who raised the question initially, had concentrated only on the application of the clause to the parliamentary departments. However, I now specifically ask the Minister to endeavour to recapture some of the fading credibility that he might be thought to have as a result of his previous evasion of this issue by giving a straight answer to the Senate, to this Parliament and to the Australian people on the question: Why is it that clause 28 contains in sub-section (2) this full-scale Henry VIII clause which on its face makes it possible for the Executive Government, without coming back to this Parliament except by resort to the regulation disallowance procedure, to denude this legislation of any significant application to the whole range of departments and authorities that come within the statutory description of prescribed Commonwealth authorities? 
-Is not the definition of 'prescribed Commonwealth authority' in fact sufficiently wide to encompass, in addition to statutory authorities and other nondepartmental agencies, departments themselves? I appreciate that there is a definition of departments in clause 3, but it might well be arguable that the width of the various descriptions encompassed under the heading 'prescribed Commonwealth authority' is such that departments of State would also be capable of being prescribed authorities within the meaning of the definition and, accordingly, within the meaning of clause 28. 
-One does not have to be very long in politics to learn that one can never underestimate the degree of cynicism to which politicians as a class are prone. It is, I suppose, an occupational hazard. But I never cease to be amazed at the degree of cynicism and hyprocrisy to which this LiberalNational Country Party Government is pronejust how much cynicism it is capable of. This Bill is another classic demonstration of that phenomenon as becomes very clear when one considers the history of this legislation and the quite extraordinary way in which Liberal-National Country Party attitudes to it have varied and changed depending on whether they were out of government or occupying the treasury benches. 
The first proposal to amalgamate the various police forces operating under the Commonwealth's general jurisdiction was made, of course, by the Whitlam Labor Government early in its term of office. The proposal emerged to amalgamate into a single national Australia police force the Commonwealth Police, the Australian Capital Territory Police, the Northern Territory Police and the Federal Narcotics Bureau operating within the then Department of Customs and Excise. This was a rational response to problems of policing and of law enforcement which had been very long evident to observers of the Australian scene. It was a course which would have enabled the combination and co-ordination of operational resources of the various forces, of training facilities, of forensic science facilities and so on. In particular, it would have enabled the creation of a force of sufficient size and scale and with sufficient opportunites for specialisation, movement and promotion within it to enable the development of a highly professional corps of carrier officers. 
I mention also that this proposal was to my mind particularly desirable in the context of the Northern Territory Police which, if I can say so without too much disrespect to that force, was then and is now, a ragtag and bobtail outfit reminding me of nothing so much as a combination of Dad's Army and the wild west. The Australian Labor Party proposal which was ultimately embodied in the Australia Police Bill introduced in 1975 did create, however rational it might have appeared to impartial, objective observers, a quite extraordinary response and reaction. In the first place there was a reaction of that kind from the Australian Capital Territory Police Force which mounted what can only be described as a major political campaign of which  Senator Knight,  who is at present leering from his seat, undoubtedly was a beneficiary. The motives of that campaign can really only be described as somewhat discreditable. My colleague,  Mr James,  is not someone whose attitudes to the police force in general can be described as anything other than loving, was moved in the other place to describe the attitude of the Australian Capital Territory Police in 1 975 as one based upon a view which was held by the top echelon of that force that they could see slipping through their fingers the possibility of achieving the rank they were striving to attain before retirement in order to make their pension more healthy. He went on to say that it was that sort of attitude which percolated down through the ranks and created the kind of reaction - 
We will be interested to hear  Senator Knight's  response. I understand that the Government has put up only one  speaker  on this Bill. This is a measure of how seriously the Government takes this legislation. If what I say is a slur- the honourable senator is playing to Australian Capital Territory Police officers who are in the gallery- I would be only too delighted to hear him articulate and enunciate just how it does constitute such a slur and how it is inaccurate. 
More important than the attitude of the Australian Capital Territory police was the attitude of the Liberal-Country Party Opposition of the day. It made the claim, far and wide within the nation that the Labor Government was creating some kind of Australian Federal Bureau of Investigation which represented some kind of incredible, dangerous threat to the civil liberties of the Australian nation. I have seen some contemptible and scurrilous propaganda emanating from the Government side of this chamber and from the other political party in this nation on many previous occasions, but never I think in the history of Australian political propagandaperhaps with very few exceptions- has there been such contemptible and scurrilous propaganda as was mounted in a reaction against the Australian Labor Party proposal to create a national amalgamated police force. 
As I have indicated, much of the criticism was directed at the supposed implications for civil liberties in Australia with the creation of a new, sophisticated force of the kind that was envisaged by the then Labor Government. Especially, concerns were expressed about the powers that this force might exercise and, in particular, there was reference to the sorts of things  Senator Messner  was talking about in his contribution. There were worries about information, storage, retrieval and matters of that kind. The Australian Labor Party Government, to its credit, did not ignore those criticisms but reacted to them- as one would expect- sensitively by undertaking when introducing that legislation, the incorporation of provisions relating to the creation of a proper, independent system of the resolution of complaints against police. It further undertook to legislate so as to produce and provide a proper code of conduct setting out in detail, and on a carefully reconsidered basis, what the powers and duties should be of the various members of the new police force. 
The Australian Law Reform Commission was given the task of producing appropriate draft legislation. The Commission, which had been established very recently before this, did that task in very short order and produced the first two reports on complaints against police and criminal investigation respectively. I was a member of the Commission at that time and indeed had particular responsibility for the co-ordination and production of the report on criminal investigation, so I can hardly be claimed to lack bias in my assessment of the worth of that particular report. Nonetheless, I think it would not be inaccurate or unfair to say that that report was warmly received very widely both within Australia and overseas, within the profession and outside it, and regarded as essentially a sound and balanced contribution to law reform in this area and one which did produce sane, balanced and acceptable solutions to those very difficult problems relating to powers of arrest, interrogation, search and seizure, electronic surveillance, questioning, custodial investigation and so on. 
Legislation was introduced accordingly to embody the recommendations of the Australian Law Reform Commission with respect to complaints against police. Those particular provisions were incorporated in the 1975 Australia Police Bill. Moreover, further legislation was foreshadowed very shortly thereafter in the form of a criminal investigation Bill embodying the subject matter of the second Law Reform Commission report. It must be said that the fate of the Australia Police Bill was rendered very uncertain indeed by the expressed altitude to which I have already referred, of the then Liberal-Country Party Opposition which of course was then in a position to control this chamber. Nonetheless, whatever the outcome of the legislation may have been, the reality of course was that the tenure of the Labor Government was rudely interrupted by the events of November 1975 and the Australia Police Bill lapsed. With the change of government and the emergence to power of the Fraser Government, the whole concept of an amalgamated national Australia police force was explicitly abandoned and with it of course the legislation which the Labor Government had introduced. 
There were subsequent desultory attempts made by this Government to implementnotwithstanding the criminal investigation recommendations of the Law Reform Commission insofar as they might of course still continue to be applicable to the individual police forces which remained in existence- a very emasculated version of the Bill. It was introduced into this Parliament in 1 977 by the then Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott,  as the Criminal Investigation Bill of that year. I have often been highly critical of that Bill but I do accept it as being better than nothing. 
But, again, that legislation lapsed with the 1977 dissolution and it appears now that the momentum in favour, and in support, of it has, with a change of Attorneys-General if nothing else, now entirely disappeared. It appears that this Bill, despite its considerable relevance, on its face, to the Opposition amendment that we are now moving, and indeed to the whole treatment of the Australia Police proposal that this should be so, is buried in some process of endless, internal departmental review and we have no idea whatsoever when it might be likely to be reintroduced. 
As for the complaints against police segment of the Australian Law Reform Commission's recommendations- again based on very widespread consultation, not only within police forces but within the community at large- those recommendations were in January 1977, again referred to the Australian Law Reform Commission with the instruction that the Commission rethink those recommendations and rewrite them so as to make them applicable to the individual police forces that continued to exist as separate entities. This the Australian Law Reform Commission duly did, recommending in its ninth report of June 1978 a slightly modified version of its original proposals, but nonetheless one which retained very clearly and centrally the concept of a detailed complaint review procedure which did embody to an important extent the notion of independence from the police investigations themselves. 
That was where the history of this matter lay early last year. For all practical purposes, the concept of amalgamation, which had been roundly condemned by the Liberal-National Country Parties while in Opposition, was dead and buried. The matters of a code of conduct and behaviour, and of the powers and duties of the police force, as well as procedures for the investigation of complaints against police officers, were not entirely dead and buried. Lip service continued to be paid to them but for all practical purposes, with the progress that was being made in their implementation, they might as well have been. 
Now, just a year later, we have had this extraordinary turnaround in the Government's attitude, this brand new emergence of evangelical enthusiasm for the concept of an amalgamated police force. In the aftermath of the Hilton bombing affair and the criticism which, of course, the Government quite rightly attracted because of its extraordinary overreaction in the circumstances of that particular affair, the Government appointed in March 1978  Sir Robert  Mark to report upon the organisation of police resources in the Commonwealth area; which obligation  Sir Robert  Mark duly and briskly carried out in the production of the report, tabled in April 1978, which has been referred to as the foundation for this legislation. The proposals for an amalgamated, or a partially-amalgamated national police force, which now appear before us are the result of that Mark report. 

 Sir Robert's recommendations, and the justifications for this limited amalgamation of the Commonwealth Police and the Australian Capital Territory Police- leaving out the otherswhich the Government now advances, are based on the following notions; firstly, that it is desirable that there should be such an amalgamation in order, first of all, to overcome the jurisdictional boundaries between the different forces which inhibit their operational effectiveness; secondly, to provide for more effective and economically co-ordinated resources in terms of the way the forces do in fact now operate; and thirdly, so as to provide a basis for more effective co-operation with the States in law enforcement matters. 
We agree with those general grounds of justification which have been articulated by  Sir Robert  Mark, and now the Government, in support of the amalgamated Australian Capital Territory and Commonwealth Police Forces that we now find contemplated in this legislation. About that, in general terms, I make only two observations. The particular criteria or justifications which are now advanced are equally applicable to the situation as it prevailed in 1975. There is just no significant difference in terms of any one of those rationales that  Sir Robert  and the Government have articulated, as between the situation now, in 1979, and the situation in 1975. 
The further point I make in passing is that this kind of reasoning is, of course, equally applicable to an expanded amalgamation beyond that simply of the Australian Capital Territory and the Commonwealth Police Forces- an amalgamation which would cover the Northern Territory and the Narcotics Bureau forces as well, namely the concept that was very much part of the original Labor proposal. It need not be excessively repeated, of course, that the recent revelations about the actions of the Federal Narcotics Bureau, and equally the revelations as to the extraordinarily irrational division of responsibilities which has been shown to exist between the Narcotics Bureau and the Commonwealth Police, make the case for incorporating the Narcotics Bureau- not to mention the Northern Territory Police- in this new, expanded force, a very strong one indeed. 

 Sir Robert Mark 's report is what might be described, as so many pieces of inquiry of this kind can be, as a curate's egg; good at best in parts. The basic good sense of the central recommendations of the report, those recommendations which I have already mentioned in favour of an amalgamation, are rather marred however by the total indifference  Sir Robert  Mark demonstrates towards those constraints which I would readily concede are regrettable constraints which are imposed by the Australian Constitution. The report is also marred by the quite extraordinarily tendentious remarks which pepper the report about the deficiencies of character and intelligence of civil libertarians in general, and in particular those who would dare to question the activities or operations of special branches. But just as  Sir Robert  Mark's report is a mixture of the erratic and the sound, so too is this Bill before us now. It is very much a curate 's egg. 
As we made clear, both in the other place and in the speech of  Senator Gietzelt  tonight, we do support the basic concept of the legislation as a partial implementation of Labor's own previous proposal. But what we are worried about is a number of specific aspects of this legislation, errors of both commission and omission, which it demonstrates on its very face and which worries, of course, are articulated in the amendment which  Senator Gietzelt  moved and which I support. Let me mention in broad terms, and as swiftly as I can, the three basic areas of concern that we do have about this legislation. The first such area of concern is the absence of any serious recognition by the Government of the necessity to do something about this problem of the definition of police powers and duties as a necessary corollary of the creation of the new and more sophisticated police force; the kind of recognition which the Labor Government in 1975 so amply demonstrated; and the result of which concern was so well embodied in the report of the Australian Law Reform Commission on criminal investigation. 
The Minister, in his second reading speech in the other place, did refer to the criminal investigation legislation, but that reference was as vague as it possibly could be. At the end of his speech his sole reference to it was that the Government was currently reviewing the 1977 draft criminal investigation legislation, and that it would take some time for that review to be completed. I might add that constant questioning of the Attorney-General by me and others in this place has equally constantly failed to ellicit any articulation by the Attorney-General as to when that review might be completed. Indeed, it has failed to articulate any kind of guarantee that that legislation, in any form, however emasculated, will ultimately be presented to this Parliament. I suggest that it is crucially important, if this Government is to maintain confidence in the integrity of the new force that it is creating in a climate, nationwide, where the integrity of all police forces is regrettably very much in issue, it must demonstrate its bona fides by addressing itself to this admittedly difficult but very important question of the enactment of criminal investigation legislation setting out a proper, balanced code of police powers and duties. 
The second matter which gives me concern about the way this legislation has been presented is, again a matter of omission. There is a complete absence in this legislation of any provisions- let alone any systematic provisionsrelating to the investigation of complaints against police. This, as I have said, was an integral part of the 1975 legislation. Indeed, perhaps even more than the matter of criminal investigation Bills or those sorts of powers, the enactment of provisions of this kind is crucial to the public acceptance of this new legislation and the new force that it will create. We have been told again by the Minister in the other place, who made a reference to this question, that the Government anticipated being able to introduce complaints legislation later in the year. But goodness knows when that legislation will appear and what it will look like when it does. 
I am led to understand that an interdepartmental committee has been moleing away, undermining the Australian Law Reform Commission's recommendation in this respect. Those recommendations are the product of an extraordinarily lengthy and wide ranging consultation with all interested sections of the community. That IDC- God help us if it turns out to be like the Freedom of Information IDC- has been moleing away at the legislation and the one major result of its labours, so far as I am aware, is that it has recommended the complete emasculation of the role of the Ombudsman in the particular investigation of complaints scenario which the Australian Law Reform Commission so thoughtfully recommended. Moreoverperhaps this is an even more important point by the Government's own lights- the failure to introduce or to incorporate complaints resolution procedures in this legislation represents, quite apart from anything else, a blatant disregard of a quite explicit recommendation of  Sir Robert  Mark himself. At page 20 of the Mark report it is stated: 
. appropriate machinery . . . should be created as part of the initial administration of the new force. 
It is not just a matter of creating complaints resolution machinery at some later stage in the future. It is not just something which is desirable ultimately or in due course. It is something which is appropriate and, indeed, necessary as part of the initial administration of the new force. I will be very interested indeed- fascinated in fact- to hear from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  in his reply to the second reading debate, if he gives us the benefit of one tonight, just how it is that the Government feels able to justify this particular omission from the legislation. 
Finally, I draw attention to a further very serious set of deficiencies in this legislation. There is a series of matters which relate to the structure and procedures of the new force and which are quite unacceptable in their present form in this Bill. In the first place the Bill creates a two-class force, not just the usual hierarchy of officers and other ranks, but a force which is clearly to be comprised of brahmans on the one hand and untouchables on the other hand. It will be comprised of general police members on the one hand and the protective security people on the other. 
The implications for the morale of the force and for its general operation and effectiveness, which as has been stated earlier in this debate, were barely touched upon by  Sir Robert  Mark in his report, should be apparent to the most untutored observer of these new arrangements at the most cursory glance. Secondly, there is a failure in this legislation- a manifest failure, on its face- to create proper rights of appeal with respect to transfers, promotions and demotions, retirements and dismissals and, indeed, disciplinary procedures generally. Thirdly, there has been a failure to provide for the proper political accountability of the new force, subject of course to necessary and proper safeguards to ensure that the political accountability does not slide into a situation of possible political abuse. The matters to which I am referring involve questions as to the ability ofthe Minister to give directions to the Commissioner as well as questions which arise as to the relationship of the force to the Crown, as personified by the Governor-General. These are questions which it would not need an Einstein to appreciate are very graphically raised by recent events in Australian history, most obviously in South Australia. All these matters can and will be dealt with by the Opposition in more detail at the Committee stage of the debate. 
The point I make to wrap this up is that the Government had the opportunity in this legislation to create at last the statutory basis for a national police force of which we could all be genuinely proud, a talented, professional, well trained and equipped force, one that is free of corruption and abuse of power, both in reality and in appearance; in short, the kind of police force which all too regrettably and all too conspicuously has been absent in the Australian experience. The Government has had that opportunity but it has blown it. For all those reasons, in the view of the Opposition the Bill should be not just cobbled together during the course of a parliamentary debate at this very late stage in the session but withdrawn and completely redrafted. A new Bill establishing this new amalgamated force on a proper basis, should be introduced at the beginning of the next session. Accordingly, I support the amendment moved by  Senator Gietzelt  to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. 
I support  Senator Button  in this very important and central question on the operation of the Australian Federal Police Bill. The matter has been canvassed extensively, not only now by  Senator Button  but also in the second reading debates both here and in the other place. I merely succinctly repeat the point which I made last night in the second reading debate, that is, that the provisions for a twocomponent force contained in this Bill in reality will create a two-class force, one of Brahmins and the other of Untouchables. That result is not in accordance with the recommendations of  Sir Robert  Mark. It certainly is not in accordance with the wishes of the Commonwealth Police Officers Association and to the extent that it will militate against both the morale and the effectiveness of the new force, it is not in the interests of the Australian people. 
by leave -I move: 
Page 9, clause 25, line 1 , leave out 'Governor-General ', insert 'Governor-General in Council '. 
Page 9, clause 25, line 3, leave  out 'Governor-General',  insert 'Governor-General in Council '. 
I do so for the same reasons as I have previously expressed. 
-by leave- I move: 
Page 8, clause 22, line 23, leave out 'Governor-General', insert 'Governor-General in Council'. 
Page 8, clause 22, line 35, leave out 'Governor-General', insert 'Governor-General in Council'. 
This matter has already been canvassed. I do not argue further for these amendments. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 23 and 24- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 25 (Commissioned Officers). 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and refers to the investigation into alleged criminal activity within the Federal Narcotics Bureau. It follows a question asked yesterday by  Senator Chipp  on the same subject. Firstly, why did the Government not consult the head of the Narcotics Bureau,  Mr Harvey  Bates, before setting in train the multiforce inquiry in question? Secondly, if, as appears, it was because the Government lacked confidence in at least some aspects of  Mr Bates's  administration of the Bureau, why did the Government take such elaborately obsequious pains to persuade  Mr Bates  to withdraw his resignation? 
Whilst certainly not dissenting from anything that either the Attorney-General,  Senator Durack,  or  Senator Tate  has said about this matter, a number of unanswered questions still exist in relation to the conduct by the Government of this whole matter of the Westinghouse Electric Corporation uranium litigation. Those questions are raised very cogently and forcefully in a letter to the  Australian Financial Review  of 3 1 May 1979 by  Mr Laurence  W. Maher, a Melbourne solicitor, who knows what he is talking about in this area because he has previously had a substantial period of government service.  Mr Maher  makes the point that the real reason for the Government's legislative and political behaviour in relation to this matter so far has less to do with abstract questions of international law and protection of domestic sovereignty and rather more to do with worries by the Government about the avoidance of political embarrassment that might be thought to flow from an acknowledgement that Australia was indeed involved up to its neck in the cartel of uranium producers in this particular area and an anxiety on the part of the Government to avoid putting on the public record anything about the inner workings of that cartel. 
A policy of silence has been maintained by the Government in this respect, and not only in the context of this particular legislation, which may be justifiable on other grounds. It is a policy of silence that raises some concern, which I think needs to be allayed. I quote from the last two paragraphs of  Mr Maher's  letter which I think make a point that needs to be answered by the Government.  Mr Maher  said: 
Australia's reaction contrasts with that of other parties in the cartel, including Canada and the United Kingdom, which have each permitted their own courts to pass on Westinghouse 's search for evidence. The Canadian Government has gone further by candidly admitting its participation in the cartel. 
Contrary to its oft proclaimed commitment to its openness in government the present Australian Government  refuses to  reveal any information regarding its participation in the cartel. A detailed public statement by the Government in line with that made by the Canadians in 1976 is long overdue and would do much to clear the air. 
I endorse those sentiments and accordingly I request the Government to consider the making of such a statement and to bring it forward at the earliest opportunity. I do not dissent from the terms of the legislation which has been enacted. I simply make the point that there are many aspects of this whole affair which need to be put on the public record, in the interests of openness of government and information acquisition by the Australian community. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I move: 
Page S, clause 13, leave out sub-clause 2, insert the following sub-clauses: 
The Commissioner shall, in the exercise of his functions, act in accordance with the written directions (if any) given to him by the Minister. (2a) The Minister shall cause a copy of every direction under sub-section (2) to be laid before each House of Parliament within 6 sitting days of the date of the direction. (2B) The Minister shall cause a copy of any direction under sub-section (2) to be published in the  Gazette  not later than 8 days after the date of the direction.'. 
Clause 13 concerns the general administration and control of the Australian Federal Police. The Opposition's particular quarrel is with sub-clause (2) of that clause which relates to the specific question of the nature and extent of the directions which can be given by the Minister or the government of the day to the Chief Commissioner. The crucial element, perhaps above all others in the establishment, operation and maintenance of any police force, is the matter of the definition of the relationship between the commissioner on the one hand and the government on the other hand. The Senate need hardly be reminded just how sensitive a question this has been in recent Australian history. It has arisen in such contexts as the resignation of Commissioner Whitrod in Queensland, the very recent retirement of Commissioner Wood in New South Wales and the spectacularly controversial dismissal of Commissioner Salisbury in South Australia. 
It is also a question which has arisen again very recently in the context of relations between the Government and the head of its Federal Narcotics Bureau,  Mr Harvey  Bates. The Opposition believes that the basic principles which should govern the relationship between the Government and the head of the police agency in question are these: Firstly, the Government should certainly never in any circumstances give any direction to the commissioner, to the force, which is motivated in any way by party political bias. Secondly, the Government should not interfere with day-to-day administration and operational requirements in matters affecting the force. Thirdly, the notion of operational autonomy, which looms very large, of course, in the Mark report, and presumably in the Government's thinking in writing this Bill in the way it has, ought not in the Opposition's view to be attained at the cost of removing or weakening the principle of the accountability of police to the elected government of the day. The Opposition believes that in order to ensure that accountability there must be a general power, not only to hire and fire the commissioner and other police officers, but to give directions. Such a power, to give directions of all kinds, must be vested in the government of the day. 
We notice, of course, that clause 13, as written, does to a certain extent vest in the Minister power to give directions. Clause 13(2) provides that the Minister may, after taking the advice of the Commissioner, give written directions to him with respect to 'the general policy to be pursued in relation to the performance of the functions of the Australian Federal Police'. So the power vested and acknowledged in the Bill relates only to general policy matters, whatever that means. I make the point that the very expression 'general policy' is one of the most uncertain connotation and is likely, in itself, quite apart from any other consideration, to give rise in practice to a degree of difficulty in working out the extent of its proper application in any particular case. The Opposition believes that it is inappropriate to seek to distinguish in this way between different kinds of directions. Accordingly, the amendment does not seek to make any such distinction, but simply states: 
The commissioner shall, in the exercise of his functions, act in accordance with the written directions (if any) given to him by the Minister. 
It is a general power that we propose to vest in the Minister- one of simply giving written directions. It is important to appreciate that putting matters in this way is not a Labor Party plot, not something which we have invented for scurrilous reasons of our own. We are referring here to something that is not at all unusual in Australian police legislation. In fact, to demonstrate how usual a provision of this kind is, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which summarises the main statutory provisions which apply in respect of State police commissioners in Australia. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="081232197906086_27_1.jpg"></graphic>

A reading of that table shows that in five of the six States of Australia a general power to give directions is vested in the political arm of the Government. Only in Western Australia is there no such explicit statutory power at all. In three States, namely New South Wales, Queensland and Tasmania, the power to give directions is vested, without reservation or qualification, in the Minister in charge of police. In Victoria the same general power is vested, again without reservation, in the GovernorinCouncil. In South Australia, the fifth State in question, under statutory provisions which have applied since at least 1972, the power is vested in the Governor-in-Council, but with certain reservations. Those reservations are that any such direction, whatever its nature, be it of a general police kind or much more specific, shall be given 

<graphic href="081232197906086_27_1.jpg"></graphic>

by the Governor-in-Council, subject to a requirement by legislation that copies be immediately laid on the table of Parliament, if Parliament is sitting, and certainly immediately published in the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette.  As a result, there is no question of any secret directions, perhaps motivated by some form of party political bias, being given. What the Government directs the Commissioner to do is entirely a matter of public record. Obviously that acts in practice as a disincentive to any tendency to misuse the power of direction. 
The Opposition believes the South Australian formula is a sensible and appropriate one, and one which best embodies the combination of the basic principles of accountability on the one hand and on the other hand the requirement that there be appropriate checks and balances ensuring that that accountability principle is not abused in practice. It is for those reasons that the Opposition moves the amendment in the terms in which it has been circulated and I hope that the Government will appreciate the force of the Opposition view on this and accept the amendment accordingly. 
-by leave -I move: 
Page 6, clause 17, sub-clause (1), line 36, leave out Governor-General ', insert 'Governor-General in Council '. 
Page 7, clause 17, sub-clause 4, line 3, leave out Governor-General ', insert 'Governor-General in Council '. 
Page 7, clause 1 7, line 9, leave out 'Governor-General ', insert 'Governor-General in Council '. 
In moving  these  amendments, might I note that the arguments applicable to these amendments are equally applicable to the amendments proposed to clauses 22 and 25, which appear as amendments ( 1 1 ), ( 1 2 ), ( 1 3 ) and ( 1 4). 
What the Opposition seeks to do with respect to these various provisions, which relate to the appointment and dismissal of the Commissioner and other officers, is to change all the references to 'Governor-General' which appear in the clause to 'Governor-General in Council'. The reason why we want to do that is to make it absolutely clear that this clause does not refer to any personal discretion vested in the GovernorGeneral, but rather of an essentially political decision which is made in accordance with the advice rendered to the Governor-General by his elected Ministers. 
This matter was the subject of some discussion and some comment by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  in the course of the second reading debate last night. The Opposition is of course aware of section 16A of the Acts Interpretation Act which reads in relevant part: 
Where, in an Act, the Governor-General is referred to, the reference shall, unless the contrary intention appears ... be read as referring to the GovernorGeneral, . . . acting with the advice of the Executive Council. 
We still, however, press the amendment. We do so not just because of any lingering sensitivity we might have- which obviously we do- arising out of the events of 1975 in respect of all matters connected with the Governor-General. It is because we believe that there are some quite genuine grounds for concern about the effects of the possible interpretation of these references in the police Bill to the Governor-General rather than the Governor-General in Council. There is quite a long line of common law cases, the best known of which in Australia is the case of Enever v. R in 1 905 in which the courts enunciated the principle that constables or police officers- peace officers as common law terminology tends to have it- are not public servants in the ordinary way, but exercise an independent authority which is derived from the very nature of their office. A variety of things flows from that common law characterisation, including the question of vicarious liability which we will come to later in this debate. 
A number of statutory inroads have been made in the common law doctrine but the situation is that unless the statutory provision in question is unequivocally clear, the common law characterisation prevails; that is, police officers are regarded as independent and not servants of the Crown or the government of the day in the ordinary way. It does not take much in the nature of a further extension of that common law reasoning to find oneself confronted with the kind of claim that was asserted by Commissioner Salisbury in South Australia that his allegiance as a commissioner was owed not to the government of the day as his employer, but owed directly to the Crown. He asserted that that allegiance was not in any sense qualified by any loyalty or subjection to the direction of the elected government of the day. Although this notion of Commissioner Salisbury was, of course, promptly and effectively quashed by Justice Roma Mitchell in her royal commission report on the Salisbury dismissal, it is apparent that it is a view-I put it, respectfully, in this way- that has some considerable currency in conservative establishments around Australia. The Opposition just makes the point that it is not beyond the realm of possiblity that a court comprised of judges, who might be taken by some people to be by and large fairly well locked into their conservative establishments, might be confronted with having to resolve this particular question. Such a court might take the view that the references to 'Governor-General' in this Act should be looked at in the context of a police Bill creating a police force with all the common law baggage that is carried with it. The Opposition thus makes the point that it is not beyond the realms of possibility that a court might construe this as being one of those situations where in fact the Bill does reveal a contrary intention, that this is one of those situations where the Acts Interpretation Act does not apply and that the reference to the Governor-General should be read literally to refer to the the Governor-General exercising a personal discretion. The Opposition simply wants to put the matter beyond doubt. As we understand it, the Government seems not to disagree with us about what the section ought to mean. 
I take it that as far as the Government is concerned there is no resiling from the notion that this section is to be read as a reference to the Governor-General in Council. I notice that the Minister is nodding his head so I take it that there is that degree of agreement between us. I seek now to invite the Minister to demonstrate some of that grace and charm, for which he is justly well known and to accept the Opposition's amendment accordingly. 
-by leave -I move: 
Page 14, clause 39, lines 7-9, leave out paragraph (a). 
Page 14, clause 39, line II, leave out 'in either component'. 
These amendments arise consequentially out of the two component force arrangement. The arguments have been canvassed. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 40 (Regulations may be provided for certain other terms and conditions). 
-by leave -I move: 
Page 14, clause 40, lines 18-2 1, leave out paragraph (c). 
Page 14, clause 40, paragraph (d), line 22, before 'early', insert 'voluntary'. 
Page 1 4, clause 40, lines 31-37, leave out paragraph ( f ). 
The first proposed amendment seeks to omit paragraph (c) and is a consequential matter relating to the issue of promotion appeals which has been canvassed and need not be further explained. 
The second proposed amendment deals with the question of retirement. It is a proposal to add in line 14 the word 'voluntary', to make it clear that in this clause which deals with the regulation making power, the Government is empowered to legislate not as is presently provided simply for the early retirement from the Australian Federal Police of members who have attained the age of 55 years, but rather to ensure that the power of the Government is confined to making regulations with respect to the voluntary early retirement from the police force of members 55 years of age and above. The Opposition is particularly anxious to ensure that there does not sneak in here, through the aegis simply of the regulationmaking power, something akin to the Commonwealth employees legislation which we have recently debated in this Parliament, but which is not, of course, legislation dealing only with the subject of voluntary retirement. It deals very specifically with compulsory, or, as the euphemism has it, 'management initiated retirement'. 
It may or may not be the intention of the Government to have this provision applicable only to voluntary retirement situations. It is the belief of the Opposition that the regulation power, however, is wide enough to encompass situations of involuntary retirement. If that is what the Government has in mind, or what this provision is capable of achieving, we believe that the Government ought to come out and say so explicitly, and not just do it by the back door, which can be done under this regulation as it is now put together. So for that reason and in order, we hope, to clarify the matter and to confine the scope of this clause, we argue for the insertion of the word 'voluntary' in paragraph (d) of clause 40. 
The third matter dealt with in respect of clause 40 is the omission of paragraph (f), which provides for a power to make regulations in respect of disciplinary offences and disciplinary procedures. The reason for our seeking omission of paragraph (f) is simply that we provide for it in a much more elaborate and, we would argue, an effective and satisfactory way in amendments which are to be moved later in the context of complaints against police. It is for those reasons that I have moved the three amendments relating to this clause. 
-I move: 
Page 15, clause 44, line 27, leave out 'may ', insert 'shall '. 
This is a small but important amendment. There is a reference in clause 44 to the Federal Police Arbitral Tribunal having a discretion to have regard to the evidence given in earlier matters. We argue, for reasons that should be apparent on the very face of the amendment, that that discretion should not exist and that the word 'may' should be replaced by the word 'shall '. 
-by leave -I move: 
Page 16, clause 49, line 38, leave out 'a party, being an association ', insert 'any party '. 
Page 19, clause 55, line 32, leave out 'or officer', insert,  officer or employee '. 
Page 19, clause 55, line 33, leave out 'or officer', insert,  officer or employee '. 
Each of these amendments incorporate various changes to the arbitration procedure to embody the substance of procedures suggested previously by the Opposition in respect of other members of the force. The object of these amendments is to make it possible clearly in a way that is not possible perhaps at the moment for an employee of the association in question to have representative rights before the Arbitrary Tribunal. At the moment the legislation is expressed simply as the right of a member or an officer of an association of employees. There is a situation which could arise whereby an advocate of such an association does not formally have either status but is rather an employee of the association. We have moved these amendments to cover that situation. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 56 to 80- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Proposed new Part VIII. 
-I move: 
After clause 80, page 27, add the following new Part (comprising clauses 81 to 146): 
"PART VIII-COMPLAINTS AGAINST THE POLICE 
Division1- Preliminary "81. (1) In this Part unless the contrary intention appears- breach of discipline' includes a disciplinary offence under the regulations; 
Commissioner' means the person holding, or performing the duties of, the office of Commissioner of Police under the Public Service Act 1 922 
Commonwealth Police Force' means the Commonwealth Police Force established by section 4; 
Deputy Ombudsman' means a Deputy Commonwealth Ombudsman; 
Deputy President' means a Deputy President of the Police Tribunal; 
Internal Discipline Section' or 'Section' means the Internal Discipline Section established by section 85; law' means a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory; legal practitioner' means a barrister or solicitor of the High Court or of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory: offence' means an offence against a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory; 
Ombudsman' means the Commonwealth Ombudsman; 
Police Force' means the Australian Federal Police: police officer' means- 
the Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner: 
a member of the Australian Federal Police referred to in paragraph 6 (c); and 
a special member of the Australian Federal Police appointed under section 27; 

 President' means the  President  of the Tribunal; 
 Registrar' means the Registrar of the Tribunal; and 
Tribunal' means the Police Tribunal established by Division IV. "82. For the purposes of this Part a reference to action taken by a police officer is a reference to action that the police officer has taken, or purports to have taken- 
by virtue of his being a police officer, whether the taking of the action was within, or was incidental to the performance of, his duties as a police officer; 
b) in the exercise of powers, or the performance of functions, conferred on him by this Act or by some other law; or 
in the capacity of a constable, under whatever authority he was appointed as such. 
"DIVISION II-COMPLAINTS AGAINST MEMBERS OF THE AUSTRALIAN FEDERAL POLICE 
"Sub-Division 1- Interpretation "83. (1) In this Division, unless the contrary intention appears, a reference to action taken includes a reference to- 
a decision or recommendation made; and 
a failure or refusal to take action or to make a decision or recommendation. "(2) For the purposes of this Division, a person shall be taken to have complained to a police officer concerning action taken by that police officer or by another police officer if the person, in a document delivered to, or in a statement made orally to, the first-mentioned police officer, whether expressly or by implication, seeks, or seeks assistance in obtaining, redress (including action by way of punishing a police officer for an offence or a breach of discipline) in respect of that action taken by the police officer. "(3) For the purposes of this Division, where the Ombudsman or the Tribunal has referred a matter to the Commissioner for investigation by the Internal Discipline Section, that matter shall, upon being referred by the Commissioner to the Section, be taken to have been so referred at the request of the Ombudsman or of the Tribunal, respectively. "84. ( 1 ) Where a person complains to a police officer concerning action taken by that police officer, or by another police officer, this Division applies to and in relation to the complaint, whether- 
) the complaint is made orally or in writing; 
the police officer whose action is complained of is identified in the complaint; or 
the identity of the complainant is known by, or disclosed to, the police officer to whom the complaint is made. "(2) This Division does not apply to or in relation to a complaint made to a police officer concerning action taken in relation to the terms or conditions of employment of police officers generally or to the employment of a particular police officer. "(3) The provisions of this Division, in so far as they confer rights on persons with respect to action taken by a police officer- 
are in addition to the provisions of, and do not affect the operation of, any other law, in respect of that action; and 
in particular, do not prevent or affect the taking of legal proceedings in respect of that action under some other law or the operation of any other law in respect of that action. "Sub-Division 2- The Internal Discipline Section "85. ( 1 ) There shall be a Section of the Police Force to be known as the Internal Discipline Section. "(2) The Commissioner shall create such number of positions (not being less than 2) in the Section as are necessary for the effective performance by the Section of the functions referred to in this Sub-Division and may abolish a position so created that is no longer necessary but so that the number of positions remaining after the position has been abolished is not less than 2. "(3) The number of positions shall not be taken to be less than 2 in consequence of the abolition of a position if another position is immediately created in its place. "(4) The Commissioner shall determine the rank to be held by a police officer occupying a position in the Section. "(5) The Commissioner shall not exercise the powers conferred on him by sub-sections (2) and (4) otherwise than with the concurrence of the Public Service Board or of a person authorised by the Board to act under this sub-section. "(6) The Commissioner shall, from time to time as occasion requires, designate a police officer who occupies a position in the Section to be the officer in charge of the Section. "86. ( 1 ) The functions of the Internal Discipline Section arc- 
to investigate matters concerning action taken by a police officer that are referred to it by the Commissioner, including matters referred to it by the Commissioner at the request of the Ombudsman or of the Tribunal; 
to investigate complaints concerning action taken by a police officer that are referred to it under section 89; 
to report to the Commissioner with respect to investigations carried out by it; and 
such other functions as are conferred on it by or under this or another Act. "(2) Where a member of the Section is able to do so without unduly interfering with the performance of the functions conferred on the Section by sub-section (1), the member shall perform such duties as a police officer as the Commissioner determines, but not including the investigation of offences alleged to have been committed by persons other than police officers. "87. (1) The Commissioner shall, in selecting a police officer for transfer or promotion to a vacant position in the Internal Discipline Section or to a position in the Section that is expected to become vacant, take into account, in addition to any other matters that he considers to be relevant- 
a ) the nature of the functions of the Section; and 
the need to ensure that, at all times, the membership of the Section includes a police officer with experience of criminal investigations and a police officer with experience of the general duties of police officers in uniform. "(2) In an appeal against the promotion or transfer of a police officer to a vacant position, or to a position that is expected to become vacant, in the Section, there shall be taken into account, in addition to other relevant matters, the matters referred to in paragraphs ( 1 ) ( a ) and ( 1 ) ( b ). "88. ( 1 ) Where the Commissioner transfers or promotes a police officer from a position that is not in the Internal Discipline Section to a position that is in the Section, the Commissioner shall, by instrument under his hand, determine the period during which the police officer is to continue to be a member of the Section. "(2) Where the Commissioner is of the opinion that there are special reasons for doing so, he may vary an instrument under sub-section ( I ) relating to a police officer by substituting another period for the period specified in the instrument. "(3) Where a police officer has held a position in the Section for the period specified in the instrument under subsection ( 1 ) that relates to him, or has held 2 or more positions in the Section for periods that are continuous with each other and aggregate the period so specified, the Commissioner shall, as soon as practicable, transfer or promote the officer to a position that is not in the Section. "(4) An instrument that has been varied in accordance with sub-section (2 ) may be again varied as provided by that sub-section. "(5) In sub-section (3), a reference to an instrument under sub-section ( 1 ) includes a reference to an instrument under sub-section ( 1 ) that has been varied under sub-section (2) or (4). "(6) The Commissioner shall so exercise his powers under this section as to ensure, so far as is practicable that a member of the Section will continue to serve as such a member for a period not exceeding 3 years unless, in the opinion of the Commissioner, special circumstances exist that make it desirable that the person serve for a longer period. "89. ( 1 ) Where a person complains to a police officer concerning action taken by that police officer or by another police officer, the police officer to whom the complaint is made shall refer the complaint to the Internal Discipline Section for investigation. "(2) The police officer shall so refer the complaint by the most expeditious means available to him and, where he refers the complaint orally, shall, as soon as practicable, furnish particulars of the complaint, in writing, to the Section. "(3) As soon as practicable after particulars in writing of a complaint have been received, the Section shall notify the Commissioner of the complaint and furnish to him a copy of the particulars. "(4) As soon as practicable after the Commissioner has been notified the Commissioner shall notify the Ombudsman of the complaint and furnish to him a copy of the particulars. "(5) A police officer to whom a complaint is made may, if he considers it necessary to do so, take reasonable action to prevent- 
injury to persons or damage to property; 
b ) the escape of a person liable to arrest; or 
the loss, destruction or fabrication of evidence relating to the complaint or an offence, but not so as to contravene, or fail to comply with, a law. "(6) A police officer who takes action in accordance with sub-section ( 5 ) in connection with a complaint- 
shall, notwithstanding that he takes the action, comply with sub-section ( 1 ) in respect of the complaint; and 
shall furnish to the Section, as soon as practicable, particulars in writing, of the action that he has taken. "(7) This section does not apply to a complaint made by a person who is known to the police officer to whom the complaint is made to be, or discloses to that police officer that he is, another police officer. "90. ( 1 ) Where a complaint or matter is referred to the International Discipline Section for investigation, whether under this Part or under some other Part, the officer in charge of the Section shall cause the complaint or matter to be investigated by a member of the Section and a report concerning the investigation to be prepared. "(2) The investigation shall be conducted, subject to this Part, in such manner as the officer in charge of the Section thinks fit. "(3 ) Subject to this Part, a member of the Section may, for the purposes of the investigation, obtain information from such persons, and make such inquiries, as he think fit. "(4) A member of the Section may, for the purposes of the investigation- 
enter premises occupied by the Police Force and carry on the investigation at those premises; 
inspect any documents or records kept at premises occupied by the Police Force and take extracts from, or a copy of, such a document or record; and 
examine any property used by the Police Force. "(5) A member of the Section may, for the purposes of the investigation- 
direct a police officer to furnish information, answer a question or produce a document or other record, being information, a question, a document or a record that is relevant to the investigation; 
b ) may make a record, by means of sound recording apparatus or otherwise, of any information furnished, or answer given, in compliance with the direction; and 
may take extracts from, or a copy of, a document or record produced in compliance with the direction. "(6) A police officer is not excused from complying with a direction under sub-section (5) on the ground that compliance with the direction would be contrary to the public interest or might tend to incriminate him or make him liable to a penalty, or any other ground, but information so furnished by him, or his answer to such a question, is not admissible in evidence against him in any civil or criminal proceedings other than proceedings for an offence against sub-section (7) or for a breach of discipline. "(7) A police officer shall not furnish information or make a statement to a member of the Internal Discipline Section knowing that it is false or misleading in a material particular. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. "(8) Sub-sections (2) and (3) do not authorize a police officer to contravene or fail to comply with a law that would, if those sub-sections had not been enacted, apply in relation to the investigation of a complaint or other matter referred to the Section but nothing in this sub-section affects the operation of any other provision of this section. "91. (1) The officer in charge of the Internal Discipline Section may- 
if he is of the opinion that the whole or a pan of the investigation of a complaint should be carried out by a person possessing special qualifications and if the Commissioner so approves, authorize a police officer who is not a member of the Section, or some other person who is not a police officer, being a police officer or person who possesses those qualifications, to make that investigation, or that part of the investigation, on behalf of the Section; or 
if he is of the opinion that the complaint is not such as to require investigation by a member of the Section and if the Commissioner so approves, authorize a police officer who is not a member of the Section to make the investigation on behalf of the Section. "(2) Where the officer in charge of the Section gives such an authority, references in section 90 to a member of the Section shall, in the application of those sub-sections in relation to the investigation or part of the investigation, be read as references to the police officer or other person authorized. "92. ( 1 ) At any time before the Internal Discipline Section has furnished to the Commissioner a report of the results of its investigation of a complaint that has been referred to it under section 89 or by the Commissioner at the request of the Ombudsman, the Commissioner shall, if the Ombudsman so requests, direct the officer in charge of the Section to furnish to him, in writing, a report of the progress of the investigation of the complaint. "(2) The Commissioner shall, as soon as practicable after receipt of the report, furnish a copy of the report to the Ombudsman. "(3) This section applies in relation to a police officer or other person authorized under sub-section 91(1) as it applies to the Section. "93. (1) When the Internal Discipline Section has completed its investigation of a complaint or other matter referred to it under this Act, the officer in charge of the Section shall cause a report, in writing, of the result of the investigation to be furnished to the Commissioner. "(2) The Commissioner shall, as soon as practicable after the report is furnished to him- 
if the investigation relates to a complaint that was referred to the Section under section 89 or by the Commissioner at the request of the Ombudsman- furnish to the Ombudsman a copy of the report; or 
if the investigation relates to a matter referred to the Section by the Commissioner at the request of the Tribunal- furnish to the Registrar a copy of the report. together with any comments relating to the report that he wishes to make. "(3) Where a report of the results of an investigation into a complaint that was referred to the Section under section 89 is furnished to the Commissioner under sub-section ( 1 ), the Commissioner shall advise the complainant of the result of the investigation and shall, unless it is impracticable to do so, furnish a report of the investigation to the complainant at the same time as he complies with paragraph (2) (a) in respect of the investigation. "94. ( 1 ) Where the Commissioner receives a report of the results of an investigation of a complaint by the Internal Discipline Section, the Commissioner shall consider the report and if, as a result of his consideration, he is of the opinion that a police officer may have committed an offence or a breach of discipline and that, in the circumstances, he would be justified in doing so, he shall cause the police officer to be charged with that offence or breach of discipline or with some other offence or breach of discipline the Commissioner considers to be appropriate. "(2) Without limiting the application of sub-section ( 1 ), where the Ombudsman brings information to the notice of the Commissioner in accordance with section 103 the Commissioner shall- 
if the Ombudsman recommends that a police officer be charged with an offence or a breach of disciplinecause the police officer to be charged with that offence or breach of discipline or with some other offence or breach of discipline that the Commissioner considers to be appropriate; or 
if the Ombudsman does not so recommendconsiders the information and all other relevant circumstances and, if he considers that he would be justified in doing so, cause the police officer concerned to be charged with an offence or breach of discipline that the Commissioner considers to be appropriate. "(3) This section does not prevent a police officer from being charged with an offence or breach of discipline otherwise than in accordance with this section but a police officer shall not be charged with the same offence or breach of discipline- 
both in accordance with sub-section ( 1 ) and in accordance with sub-section (2 ); or 
both in accordance with this section and otherwise than in accordance with this section. "(4) Where the Commissioner, after considering in accordance with paragraph (2) (b) information that has been brought to his notice by the Ombudsman, decides that a police officer should not be charged with an offence or breach of discipline, the Commissioner shall furnish to the Ombudsman, in writing, his reasons for so deciding. "(5) Where a police officer is charged with an offence or with a breach of discipline in accordance with sub-section ( 1 ) or (2), the Commissioner shall notify the Ombudsman, in writing, that the police officer has been so charged and furnish to the Ombudsman any comments that he wishes to make in relation to the charge. "(6) Where a police officer is charged with an offence or breach of discipline as a result of the investigation of a complaint referred to the Section under section 89, the Commissioner shall, unless it is impracticable to do so, at the same time as he complies with sub-section (S), notify the complainant, in writing, that the police officer has been so charged and furnish to the complainant any comments he wishes to make in relation to the charge. "(7) Where a police officer is charged with an offence or breach of discipline as the result of an investigation of a matter referred to the Section at the request of the Tribunal, the Commissioner shall notify the Registrar that the police officer has been so charged and furnish to the Registrar any comments that he wishes to make in relation to the charge. "95.(1) The officer in charge of the Internal Discipline Section shall maintain a register containing the prescribed particulars with respect to each complaint or other matter that is referred to the Section for investigation. "(2) The Minister shall include in each annual report prepared by him in accordance with section 145 the prescribed particulars with respect to complaints and other matters so referred, during the year to which the report relates. "96.(1) Subject to this section, a person who is, or has been, a member of the Internal Discipline Section shall not, either directly or indirectly, and either while he is, or after he has ceased to be, such a member, except in the performance of his duty as such a member or with the consent, in writing, of the Minister, make a record of, or divulge or communicate to a person, information acquired by him in the course of, or for the purposes of, an investigation of a complaint or other matter referred to the Section for investigation. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. "(2) Where a person who has been authorized under paragraph 91 ( 1 ) (a) to make an investigation on behalf of the Section acquires information in the course of, or for the purposes of, that investigation, sub-section ( I ) applies to him in relation to that information as if he had been a member of the Section when he acquired the information. "(3) Subject to sub-section (6), a person who is, or has been, a police officer shall not, either directly or indirectly and either while he is, or after he has ceased to be, a police officer- 
divulge or communicate to a person the fact that, in the course of, or for the purposes of, the investigation of a complaint or matter by the Section- 
he made a statement to, gave information to or answered a question by a member of the Section; or 
made a document or record available by a member of the Section; or 
make a record of, or divulge or communicate to a person- 
information that he gave to a member of the Section in the course of or for the purposes of the investigation of a complaint or matter by the Section; or 
the contents of a document or record that he made available to the Section for the purposes of such an investigation, except with the consent, in writing, of the Minister or in connection with proceedings (including proceedings in respect of a breach of discipline) against a person (including himself). 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. " ( 4 ) Sub-section ( I ) or ( 3 ) does not- 
prevent a person who is, or has been, a member of the Section from disclosing, in a report made under this Division, such matters as, in his opinion, ought to be disclosed in the course of setting out the grounds for the conclusions contained in the report; or 
prevent a person who is, or has been, such a member or a police officer from producing a record referred to in sub-section ( I ) to, or giving information so referred to in evidence before, a court, the Tribunal, or a person who is authorized to hear and determine a charge in respect of a breach of discipline. "(5) The references in sub-section (3) to a member of the Section include references to a police officer or person authorized under section 91 and the reference in that sub-section to an investigation include a reference to an investigation made by such a person under that section on behalf of the Section. "(6) Sub-section (1) or (3) does not prevent a police officer from making a communication for the purposes of, or in connection with, the making of a complaint to the Ombudsman or to the Commissioner in respect of action taken by a police officer in the course of, or for the purposes of, an investigation by a member of the Section or by a police officer or person authorized under section 91 to make an investigation on behalf of the Section. "(7) This section does not affect the operation of section 9 of the Ombudsman Act 1 976 in relation to a police officer. 
"DIVISION  III-INVESTIGATIONS  BY THE OMBUDSMAN OF COMPLAINTS AGAINST POLICE OFFICERS 
"97. ( 1 ) This Division shall be incorporated and read as one with the Ombudsman Act 1976. "(2) Subject to this Division a reference to the Ombudsman Act 1976 in a provision of that Act that is specified in Schedule 2 shall be read without taking into account the effect of sub-section ( 1 ). "(3) Section 11 of the Ombudsman Act 1976 does not apply to a complaint under this Division. "98.(1) In this Division, unless the contrary intention appears, 'complaint' means a complaint that has been notified to the Ombudsman under section 89 or made to the Ombudsman under section 100. "(2) Sub-sections 83 ( I ) and 83 (2) apply in relation to this Division as they apply in relation to Division II. "99. ( 1 ) Where the Ombudsman becomes of the opinion, either while he is investigating, or upon completing his investigation of, a complaint that appears to him to be a complaint in respect of action taken by the Police Force, that it would be more appropriate to deal with the complaint under this Part as if it were a complaint in respect of action taken by a police officer, the Ombudsman may determine that this Division applies, and shall be deemed always to have applied, to that complaint and, upon the making of the determination, Part II of the  Ombudsman Act  1976 does not apply, and shall be deemed never to have applied, to that complaint. "(2) Where the Ombudsman becomes of the the opinion, either while he is investigating, or upon completing his investigation of, a complaint that appears to him to be a complaint concerning action taken by a police officer, that it would be more appropriate to deal with the complaint under Part II of the  Ombudsman Act  1 976 as if it were a complaint in respect of action taken by the Police Force, the Ombudsman may determine that that Part applies, and shall be deemed always to have applied, to the complaint, and, upon the making of the determination, this Division does not apply, and shall be deemed never to have applied, to that complaint. "(3) Where a determination is made under sub-section ( 1 ) or (2) in respect of a complaint, any action taken by the Ombudsman in relation to the complaint before the making of the determination shall be deemed to have been taken under this Division or under Part II of the  Ombudsman Act  1 976, respectively. "(4) In this Division a reference to a complaint includes a reference to a complaint determined by the Ombudsman under sub-section ( 1 ) to be a complaint to which this Division applies and does not include a reference to a complaint determined by the Ombudsman under sub-section (2) to be a complaint to which Part II of the  Ombudsman Act  1976 applies. " 100. ( I ) A person (including a police officer) may complain to the Ombudsman concerning action taken by a police officer, whether before or after the commencement of this section, not being action with respect to the employment of police officers generally or to the employment of a particular police officer. "(2) Sub-section ( 1 ) applies whether- 
the identity of the police officer is known by, or disclosed to, the Ombudsman; or 
the action relates to a matter of administration or to some other matter. "(3) In sub-section ( 1 )- 
the reference to action taken with respect to the employment of police officers generally includes a reference to action taken with respect to the promotion, termination of appointment or discipline of, or the payment of remuneration to, police officers generally; and 
the reference to action taken with respect to the employment of a particular police officer includes a reference to action taken with respect to the promotion of, or the payment of remuneration to, the particular police officer but does not include a reference to action taken with respect to a breach of discipline committed, or alleged to have been committed, by the particular police officer. "(4) Section 7 of the  Ombudsman Aci  1976 applies to a complaint under sub-section ( I ) as if references in that section to a complaint under that Act were references to a complaint under sub-section ( 1 ). " 101. (1 ) Where a complaint is made to the Ombudsman under section 100 with respect to action taken by a police officer, the Ombudsman may, , if he considers that it would be in the public interests to do so, refer the complaint, or a matter relating to the complaint, to the Commissioner for investigation by the Internal Discipline Section. "(2) The Ombudsman may, after considering a report of the investigation, refer the complaint, or a matter relating to the complaint, to the Commissioner for further investigation by the Section. "(3) The Ombudsman may, after considering a report of the investigation or of the further investigation- 
make any further investigation into the action taken by the police officer that he thinks appropriate; or 
treat the investigation, or the investigation and further investigation, by the Section, for the purposes of this Division, as constituting, or as constituting part of, his investigation of the action taken by the police officer or as concluding his investigation of that action. " 102. ( 1 ) Subject to this Division, the Ombudsman- 
shall investigate action taken by a police officer in respect of which a complaint has been made to him under section 100; or 
may investigate action taken by a police officer in respect of which a complaint has been notified to him under section 89. "(2 ) The Ombudsman may, in his discretion, decide not to investigate action taken by a police officer to which a complaint relates or, if he has commenced to investigate the action, decide not to investigate the action further- 
if the Ombudsman is satisfied that the complainant became aware of the action more than 12 months before the complaint was made and that his declining to investigate the action, or to investigate the action further, would not cause undue hardship te the complainant; 
b) if the Ombudsman is satisfied that- 
the complaint is frivolous or vexatious or was not made in good faith; or 
the complainant does not have a real concern in the subject matter of the complaint and there are no special reasons justifying the investigation, or further investigation, of the action; or 
if, in the opinion of the Ombudsman, the investigation, or further investigation, of the action is unnecessary having regard to all the circumstances of the case. "(3)Where- 
a complainant has exercised a right to cause action to which his complaint relates to be reviewed by a court or by a tribunal constituted by or under an Act; or 
a person has been prosecuted in relation to the complaint, the Ombudsman shall not investigate, or continue to investigate, as the case may be, the action unless the Ombudsman is of the opinion that it would be in the public interest to do so. "(4) Where the Ombudsman is of the opinion that a complainant has or had a right to cause the action to which his complaint relates to be reviewed by a court or by a tribunal constituted by or under a law but has not exercised that right, the Ombudsman shall not investigate, or continue to investigate, as the case may be, the action unless the Ombudsman is of the opinion that- 
) it is in the public interest to do so; or 
in all the circumstances, the failure to exercise the right is not or was not unreasonable. "(5) Subject to sub-section (6), the Ombudsman shall not investigate, or continue to investigate, action to which a complaint relates while the action is being investigated, or while a matter relating to the action is being investigated, by the Internal Discipline Section. "(6)Where- 
the action to which a complaint relates- 
i) concerns a police officer who is equal or senior in rank to the officer in charge of the Section: 
concerns a member of the Section; or 
is related to other action that the Ombudsman is investigating under the Ombudsman Act 1976; or 
the Ombudsman is of the opinion that it is in the public interest that he should investigate the action to which a complaint relates, he may investigate the action notwithstanding that the action is being investigated by the Section. " 103. The provisions of sub-sections 8 (2) to 8 (9) (inclusive) and sections 9, 13 and 14 of the Ombudsman Act 1976 apply to and in relation to an investigation by the Ombudsman of action taken by a police officer as if references in those provisions to that Act were references to this Division. " 104. ( 1 ) The Ombudsman may, whether before or after completing his investigation of action to which a complaint relates, bring to the notice of the Commissioner any information acquired by him in connection with the investigation which he thinks should be brought to the notice of the Commissioner. "(2) Without limiting the generality of sub-section (I), where the Ombudsman becomes of the opinion, whether before or after completing an investigation referred to in that sub-section, that information acquired by him in connection with the investigation shows that a police officer may have committed an offence or a breach of discipline and that the information is, in all the circumstances, such as to justify his doing so, the Ombudsman shall bring the information to the notice of the Commissioner and may recommend to the Commissioner that the officer be charged with that offence or breach of discipline. " 105. ( 1 ) Where the Ombudsman becomes of the opinion, whether before or after completing his investigation of action to which a complaint relates, that, having regard to all the circumstances, the complaint may properly be dealt with by attempting to reconcile the complainant and the police officer concerned, the Ombudsman may make such suggestions, and do such things, as appear to him to be appropriate for effecting a reconciliation between the complainant and the police officer. "(2) Without limiting the generality of sub-section (I), the Ombudsman may make either or both of the following suggestions: 
a suggestion to the complainant that he take such reasonable action specified by the Ombudsman as would, in the opinion of the Ombudsman, assist in effecting a reconciliation; 
a suggestion to the Commissioner that the Commissioner, or the police officer concerned, take such reasonable action specified by the Ombudsman, or that the Commissioner and the police officer concerned each take such reasonable action specified by the Ombudsman, as would, in the opinion of the Ombudsman, assist in effecting a reconciliation. "(3) Sub-section ( 1 ) does not apply to a complaint concerning action taken by a police officer if the Ombudsman is of the opinion that information acquired by him in connection with the investigation of the action shows that a police officer may have committed an offence or a breach of discipline and that the information is, in all the circumstances, sufficient to justify his bringing the information to the notice of the Commissioner. "(4) Without limiting the powers of the Ombudsman in investigating action taken by a police officer, the Ombudsman may, for the purpose of attempting to reconcile a complainant and the police officer concerned- 
obtain from the Commissioner an explanation with respect to the policies, practices and procedures of the Police Force that the Ombudsman considers to be relevant; or 
request the complainant to do any or all of the following: 
to attend before him; 
to provide further information concerning the complaint; or 
to verify on oath or affirmation information furnished in connection with the complaint. "(5) Neither the complainant, the Commissioner nor the police officer concerned is bound to comply with a suggestion made under sub-section ( I ) or (2 ). "(6) Where, after dealing with a complaint in accordance with sub-section ( I ), the Ombudsman is satisfied that the complainant does not wish the action to which his complaint relates to be investigated further or any action, or further action, to be taken in respect of his complaint- 
the Ombudsman shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Division, to have effected a reconciliation between the complainant and the police officer concerned with respect to the matters to which the complaint relates; 
the Ombudsman shall notify the Commissioner in writing that he has effected the reconciliation: 
the Ombudsman is not required to investigate the action taken by the police officer further under this Division or to make any report (other than a report required under section 19 of the Ombudsman Act 1 976 ) or do any other thing under this Division in relation to his investigation of that action; and 
if the Internal Discipline Section is dealing with the complainant, the Section shall cease to deal with it. " 106. ( 1 ) Where a complaint is made to the Ombudsman under section 100 concerning action taken by a police officer and the Ombudsman does not, for any reason, investigate, or complete an investigation of, the action, the Ombudsman shall inform the complainant and the Commissioner accordingly in writing and furnish to the complainant and the Commissioner particulars of his reasons for not investigating, or completing the investigation of, the action. "(2) If the Ombudsman completes his investigation of the action, he shall furnish to the complainant and to the Commissioner particulars of the results of his investigation. "(3) For the purposes of sub-section (1), where the Ombudsman refers a complaint made to him under section 100, or a matter relating to such a complaint, to the Commissioner for investigation by the Internal Discipline Section, he shall be deemed to be investigating the action to which the complaint relates. " 107. ( I ) Where, after the Ombudsman has completed his investigation of action taken by a police officer, the Ombudsman is of the opinion- 
that the police officer took action that, in all the circumstances, he should not have taken; and 
that the police officer did not, in taking that action, commit an offence or a breach of discipline, the Ombudsman shall report accordingly to the Commissioner and to the Minister. "(2) The Ombudsman- 
shall include in the report his reasons for the opinions specified in the report; and 
may also include in the report any recommendations he thinks fit to make. "(3) The Ombudsman may request the Commissioner to furnish to him, within a specified time, particulars of any action that the Commissioner proposes to take in consequence of the report. "(4) The Commissioner may furnish to the Ombudsman comments concerning the report. "(5) Where, within a reasonable time after the Ombudsman furnished the report to the Commissioner, action that is, in the opinion of the Ombudsman, adequate and appropriate in the circumstances has not been taken by the Commissioner in consequence of the report, the Ombudsman may inform the Prime Minister accordingly in writing and, if he does so, shall furnish to the Prime Minister a copy of the report and, if the Commissioner has furnished comments concerning the report of the Ombudsman under sub-section (4), a copy of those comments. "(6) In considering whether to furnish information in relation to the report to the Prime Minister in accordance with sub-section (5), the Ombudsman shall have regard to any comments furnished to him under sub-section (4) concerning the report. "(7) Where the Ombudsman has, in accordance with subsection (S), furnished information to the Prime Minister in relation to a report, the Ombudsman may also forward to the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, for presentation to the Senate and the House of Representatives, respectively, copies of a statement prepared by him concerning the investigation and setting out a copy of any comments furnished to him under sub-section (4) concerning the report. "(8) Where the Ombudsman takes action as provided by sub-section (7), he shall send a copy of the statement and comments (if any) to the complainant to whom the report relates. " 108. ( 1 ) The Ombudsman shall establish and maintain a register containing the prescribed particulars of, or relating to, complaints. "(2) The Ombudsman shall include in each report referred to in paragraph 19(1) (a) of the Ombudsman Act 1976 the prescribed particulars with respect to complaints that were notified or made to him, or were investigated by him, during the year to which the report relates. 
"DIVISION IV-THE POLICE TRIBUNAL 
"Sub-Division 1 -Preliminary "109. (1) In this Division, unless the contrary intention appears-judicial office ' means- 
an office of judge of a Federal Court or of the Supreme Court of a Territory; or 
an office the holder of which has, by virtue of an Act, the same status as a judge referred to in paragraph (a); member' means the  President,  a  Deputy President  or other member of the Tribunal. "(2) For the purposes of this Division, an office of Justice of the Peace shall be taken not to be an office of Magistrate. "(3) In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears, a reference to a proceeding before the Tribunal is a reference to- 
a proceeding in respect of a charge referred to the Tribunal under section 122; 
an appeal to the Tribunal under section 123: or 
an inquiry by the Tribunal into a matter referred by the Minister to the Tribunal under section 125. "Sub-Division 2- Establishment of Police Tribunal " 1 10. There is hereby established a Tribunal to be known as the Police Tribunal. "III. ( I ) The Tribunal shall consist of a President and such Deputy Presidents and other members as are appointed in accordance with this section. "(2) A member shall be appointed by the GovernorGeneral in Council. "(3) The Deputy Presidents and other members have seniority as Deputy Presidents or other members, respectively, according to the dates of their appointments. "(4) A member is not required by this Division to devote the whole of his time to his duties as a member. "112. (1) A person is not qualified to be appointed as President unless he is the holder of a judicial office. "(2) A person is not qualified to be appointed as a Deputy President unless- 
he is the holder of a judicial office; or 
he is a Deputy President of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. "(3) A person is not qualified to bc appointed as a member other than President or a Deputy President unless- 
he is a magistrate of a Territory; or 
he has been, for a period of not less than 5 years, a legal practitioner. " 1 13. ( I ) The appointment of a person as a member, or the service of a person as a member, does not affect his tenure of a judicial office or office under an Act or his rank, title, status, precedence, salary, annual or other allowances or other rights or privileges as the holder of a judicial office or office under an Act and, for all purposes, his service as a member of the Tribunal shall be taken to be service as the holder of his judicial office or other office. "(2) In this section, 'judicial office' includes an office of magistrate in a Territory. "114. Subject to this Division, a member holds office for such period, not exceeding 7 years, and on such terms and conditions, as are specified in the instrument of his appointment but is eligible for re-appointment. "115. ( 1 ) A member, not being the holder of a judicial office, shall be paid such remuneration as the Remuneration Tribunal determines but, if no determination of that remuneration by that Tribunal is in operation, he shall be paid such remuneration as is prescribed. "(2) A member shall be paid such allowances as are prescribed. "(3) This section has effect subject to the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973. "(4) In this section, 'judicial office' includes an office of magistrate in a Territory. "116. ( 1 ) The Minister may appoint the holder of a judicial office to act as  President  during any period, or during all periods, when the  President  is unavailable to perform the duties of his office or during a vacancy in the office of  President.  "(2) Where a member other than the  President  is, or is expected to be, unavailable to perform the duties of his office, the Governor-General in Council may appoint a person qualified to be appointed to that office to act as the holder of that office during the period for which the member is so unavailable. "(3) Where a person has been appointed under subsection ( 1 ) or (2), the Governor-General in Council may, by reason of a pending proceeding or other special circumstances, direct, before the unavailable member ceases to be unavailable, that the person so appointed shall continue to act under the appointment after the member ceases to be unavailable and until the Governor-General in Council terminates the appointment but a person shall not continue to act by virtue of this sub-section for more than 12 months after the member ceases to be unavailable. "(4) Where a person has been appointed under this section to act as a member during the unavailability of a member and the member ceases to hold office without having become available to perform the duties of his office, the period of appointment of the person so appointed continues, subject to this Division, until it is terminated by the Governor-General in Council or until the expiration of 12 months from the day on which the unavailable member ceases to hold office, whichever first happens. "(5) A person acting as the  President,  as a  Deputy President  or as another member shall act in that capacity on such terms and conditions as the Governor-General in Council determines. "(6) A person acting as the  President,  as a  Deputy President  or as another member has all the powers and duties, and shall perform all the functions, conferred or imposed by this Division on the  President,  on a  Deputy President  or on another member, respectively, and, for the purpose of the exercise of those powers or duties, or the performance of those functions, this Division has effect as if a reference to the  President,  a  Deputy President  or other member included a reference to a person acting as the  President,  as a  Deputy President  or as another member, respectively. "(7) Where- 
the Tribunal as constituted for the purposes of a proceeding consists of a person acting or purporting to be appointed under this section; or 
a person so acting or purporting to be appointed has done any act, the validity of any decision of, or of any direction given or other act done by, the Tribunal as so constituted, or of the act done by the person so acting or purporting to be appointed, shall not be called in question in any proceeding on the ground that the occasion for the person to act or for the appointment of the person had not arisen, that the occasion for his appointment had ceased or that his appointment had ceased to have effect. "117. (1) Where the  President  no longer holds judicial office, the Governor-General in Council may terminate his appointment. "(2) The termination of the appointment of a  President  under sub-section ( I ) does not prevent his reappointment as a  Deputy President.  "(3) The  President  shall not be removed from office except as provided by this section. "118. ( I ) Where a  Deputy President  no longer holds a judicial office or the office of  Deputy President  of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, the Governor-General in Council may terminate his appointment. "(2) A  Deputy President  shall not be removed from office except as provided by this section. " 1 1 9. ( 1 ) This section applies to a member other than the  President  or a  Deputy President.  "(2) The Governor-General in Council may remove from office a member to whom this section applies on an address praying for his removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity being presented to the Governor-General in Council by each House of the Parliament in the same session of the Parliament. "(3) The Governor-General in Council may suspend such a member from office on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity. "(4) Where the Governor-General in Council suspends a member from office under sub-section (3), the Minister shall cause a statement of the grounds of the suspension to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 7 sitting days of that House after the suspension. "(5) Where such a statement has been laid before a House of the Parliament, that House may, within 15 sitting days of that House after the day on which the statement has been laid before it, by resolution, declare that the member should be removed from office and, if each House so passes such a resolution, the Governor-General in Council shall remove the member from office. "(6) If, at the expiration of 15 sitting days of a House of the Parliament after the day on which the statement has been laid before that House, that House has not passed such a resolution, the suspension terminates. "(7) The suspension of a member from office under this section does not affect any entitlement of the member to be paid remuneration and allowances. "(8) If a member to whom this section applies becomes bankrupt, or if the affairs of such a member are being dealt with under Part X of the Bankruptcy Act 1966, the Governor-General in Council shall terminate his appointment. "(9) If a member to whom this section applies ceases to possess the qualifications necessary for his appointment, the Governor-General in Council shall terminate his appointment. "( 10) A member to whom this section applies shall not be removed or suspended from office except as provided by this section. " 1 20. A member may resign his office by writing under his hand delivered to the Governor-General in Council but the resignation does not have effect until it is accepted by the Governor-General in Council. "Sub-Division 3- Staff of Tribunal "121.(1) There shall be a Registrar of the Tribunal and such  Deputy  Registrars of the Tribunal as are appointed in accordance with this section. "(2) The Registrar and the  Deputy  Registrars shall be appointed by the Minister and have such duties and functions as are provided by this Division and by the regulations and such other duties and functions as the  President  directs. "(3) The Registrar and the  Deputy  Registrars, and the staff necessary to assist them, shall be persons appointed or employed under the Public Service Act 1 922. "Sub- Division 4- Constitution and Powers of Tribunal " 122. ( 1 ) The  President  may give directions as to the arrangement of the business of the Tribunal and as to the person who is to constitute the Tribunal for the purposes of a particular proceeding. "(2) The  President  may, either generally or as otherwise provided by the instrument of delegation, by writing signed by him, delegate all or any of his powers under sub-section ( 1 ) to a  Deputy President.  "(3) A delegation under sub-section (2) is revocable at will and does not prevent the exercise of a power by the  President.  "(4) Sittings of the Tribunal for the purposes of a particular proceeding shall be held at such places and times as are determined by the member who constitutes the Tribunal for the purposes of the proceeding. " 123. ( 1 ) The Tribunal shall, for the purpose of the exercise of its powers in relation to a matter, be constituted by one member. "(2 ) The Tribunal constituted by one member may sit and exercise the powers of the Tribunal notwithstanding that the Tribunal constituted by another member is at the same time sitting and exercising the powers of the Tribunal. " 1 24. ( 1 ) Where a police officer is charged with a breach of discipline- 
in pursuance of a recommendation of the Ombudsman; or 
as a result of an investigation made by the Internal Discipline Section into a complaint referred to the Section under Division II, the Commissioner shall refer the charge to the Tribunal for hearing and determination by causing a copy of the charge to be forwarded to the Registrar. "(2) Where a police officer who is charged with a breach of discipline, otherwise than as mentioned in sub-section ( 1 ), does not admit the truth of the matters alleged to constitute the breach, the Commissioner shall- 
) if the police officer requests him to do so; or 
if the Commissioner considers that it would be desirable in the circumstances to do so, refer the charge to the Tribunal for hearing and determination by causing a copy of the charge to be forwarded to the Registrar. "(3) The Tribunal shall hear and determine the charge and, if the Tribunal determines that the charge has been proved, the Tribunal may direct that the Commissioner- 
caution or reprimand the police officer 
fine the police officer an amount not exceeding S200: 
change the place at which the police officer is to perform his duties; 
) reduce the police officer to a lower rank: or 
reduce the rate of salary of the police officer to a lower rate of salary within the limits of salary fixed for the rank held by the police officer, or may recommend to the Minister that the police officer be dismissed from the Police Force. "(4) The Commissioner shall give effect to a direction of the Tribunal under sub-section (3). "(5) Paragraph 3 (c) does not affect the power of the Commissioner to determine the place at which a police officer is to perform his duties. " 125. ( 1 ) Where a police officer is charged with a breach of discipline and the Commissioner decides to take action of a kind referred to in sub-section 122 (3) or to recommend to the Minister that the police officer be dismissed from the Police Force- 
the Commissioner shall cause the police officer to be notified accordingly and to be furnished, with his reasons for his decisions, his findings on material questions of fact and a reference to the evidence or other material on which those findings are based; and 
the police officer may appeal to the Tribunal against the decision. "(2) An appeal to the Tribunal under paragraph 1(b)- 
shall be in writing; 
shall set out the grounds upon which it is made; and 
shall be lodged with the Registrar of the Tribunal within 28 days after the day on which the notification referred to in paragraph ( 1 ) (a) is furnished to the police officer. "(3) The appeal may be made on one or more of the following grounds- 
a ) that the charge should have been dismissed; 
that the action taken in respect of the charge is unduly severe; or 
that the action taken in respect of the charge is not authorized by law. "(4) The tribunal constituted by the  President  or by a  Deputy President  shall hear and determine the appeal and may- 
affirm the decision under appeal; 
vary the decision under appeal; or 
set aside the decision under appeal and substitute for it a decision, including a decision dismissing the charge, that could have been made by the Commissioner in dealing with the charge. "(5) Where the Tribunal varies the decision under appeal, or substitutes its decision for the decision under appeal, the Commissioner shall give effect to the determination of the Tribunal as if it were his decision. " 126. ( 1 ) The Tribunal may, at any time during the hearing by it of a charge under section 124, or of an appeal under section 125, recommend to the Commissioner that the police officer concerned, if he is not at that time suspended from duty, be so suspended pending the determination of the charge or of the appeal and, where the Tribunal so recommends, the Commissioner shall suspend the police officer from duty accordingly. "(2) The officer is entitled to be paid salary during the period of his suspension. "(3) The Tribunal may, at any time during or after the hearing, recommend to the Commissioner that the suspension be removed and, where the Tribunal so recommends, the Commissioner shall remove the suspension. " 127. ( 1 ) The Tribunal may inquire into a matter relating to the Police Force that is referred to it by the Minister. "(2) If the Minister so directs, the Tribunal shall be constituted, for the purposes of the inquiry, by the  President  or by a  Deputy President.  "(3) The Minister may arrange for counsel to be engaged to assist the Tribunal in connection with the inquiry. "(4) Where the Tribunal is not assisted by counsel, the Commissioner shall, if he is requested by the Tribunal to do so, arrange for a member of the Internal Discipline Section, or for an appropriate police officer other than such a member, to assist the Tribunal in connection with the inquiry. "(5) Upon completing its inquiry, the Tribunal shall report to the Minister the results of the inquiry. " 128. The Tribunal may, at any time during the hearing of a proceeding, refer a matter relevant to the proceeding to the Commissioner for investigation by the Internal Discipline Section and, where it does so, the Commissioner shall cause the Section to investigate the matter. " 129. ( 1 ) Where, after a complaint has been made or referred to the Ombudsman concerning action taken by a police officer, a charge of breach of discipline is referred to the Tribunal for hearing and determination, the complainant may, by leave of the Tribunal, appear before the Tribunal on the hearing of the charge. "(2) The Registrar shall, unless it is impracticable to do so, notify the complainant of the time and place at which the Tribunal will sit to hear the charge and that he is entitled to seek leave of the Tribunal to appear upon the hearing of the charge. "(3) The complainant may, if the Tribunal grants him leave to appear- 
appear in person, by a legal practitioner or by some other person; and 
take such part only in the proceeding as the Tribunal permits. "(4) Where- 
the complainant complained to a police officer- the Commissioner; or 
the complainant complained to the Ombudsmanthe Ombudsman, shall, as soon as practicable after the Tribunal has given its decision with respect to the charge, and subject to any direction of the Tribunal prohibiting or restricting the disclosure of the decision, cause particulars of the decision to be furnished to the complainant, in writing, unless the complainant or his representative was present before the Tribunal when it gave its decision. "(5) The fact that a police officer has been charged, in connection with action taken by him, with an offence against a law does not prevent the institution, or the continuance, of proceedings before the Tribunal relating to that action. "( 6) A complainant who- 
has appeared, by leave of a Tribunal, on the hearing of a charge by the Tribunal; and 
has paid, or has become liable to pay, costs or expenses in connection with the proceedings before the Tribunal, may apply to the Attorney-General for financial assistance by the Commonwealth in respect of those costs or expenses. "(7) The Attorney-General may, if he is satisfied that it would involve hardship to the complainant to refuse the application and that, in all the circumstances, it is reasonable that the application should be granted, authorise payment by the Commonwealth to or on behalf of the complainant in respect of those costs and expenses of such amount as he determines or of such amounts as he, from time to time, determines. "(8) Sub-section (6) or (7) does not authorise a payment in respect of fees of more than 1 counsel unless 2 or more counsel appeared for the police officer. "(9) Where the Attorney-General authorises a payment as provided by sub-section (7), he may, upon application being made to him by the police officer concerned, authorise payment by the Commonwealth to or on behalf of the police officer of such amount as the Attorney-General from time to time determines in respect of the costs and expenses of the police officer in connection with the proceedings before the Tribunal. " 1 30. ( 1 ) For the purpose of this Division the Tribunal- 
may take evidence on oath or affirmation; 
may proceed in the absence of a person entitled to be present if the person has had reasonable notice of the proceeding; and 
may adjourn a proceeding before the Tribunal from time to time. "(2) Where a person who is, under the regulations, a party to a proceeding before the Tribunal requests a member to do so, the member may summon a person to appear before the Tribunal at the hearing of the proceeding to give evidence and to produce such documents (if any) as are referred to in the summons. "131.(1) Where a person who has been summoned to attend before the Tribunal as a witness in an inquiry under section 126 fails to attend as required by the summons, the member constituting the Tribunal may, upon being satisfied that the summons has been duly served and that reasonable expenses have been paid or tendered to the person, issue a warrant for the apprehension of the person. "(2) The warrant authorises any member of the Australian Federal Police or the police force of a State or Territory or a Commonwealth officer named in the warrant to apprehend the person and bring him before the Tribunal and, for that purpose, to detain him in custody until he is released by order of the Tribunal. "(3)  i  The apprehension of a person under this section does not relieve him from any liability incurred by him by reason of his failure to attend before the Tribunal. "132. (1) Subject to sub-section (2), the hearing of a proceeding before the Tribunal shall be in public. "(2) Where the Tribunal is satisfied that it is desirable to do so in the public interest or by reason of the confidential nature of any evidence or matter, the Tribunal may- 
direct that the hearing, or a part of the hearing, shall take place in private and give directions as to the persons who may be present; and 
give directions restricting or prohibiting the publication or disclosure- 
of evidence given before the Tribunal, whether in public or in private; 
of any matters contained in documents lodged with the Tribunal or received in evidence by the Tribunal; or 
of any finding or decision of the Tribunal in relation to the proceeding. "(3) A person shall not contravene or fail to comply with a direction under this section that is applicable to him. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. "133. At the hearing of a proceeding before the Tribunal, a person who is, under the regulations, a party to the proceeding may appear in person or may be represented by a legal practitioner or by some other person. "134. (1) In a proceeding before the Tribunal, the procedure of the Tribunal is, subject to this Division and to the regulations, within the discretion of the Tribunal. "(2) A proceeding before the Tribunal shall be conducted with as little formality and technicality and with as much expenditure as the requirements of this Division and a proper consideration of the matter before the Tribunal permit. "(3) The Tribunal is not bound by any rules of evidence but may inform itself on any matter in such manner as it thinks appropriate. "(4) The regulations may make provision, not inconsistent with this Division, for or in relation to- 
the practice and procedure of the Tribunal; 
the persons who are to be regarded as parties to a proceeding before the Tribunal, not being a proceeding by way of inquiry into a matter referred to the Tribunal under section 127; 
the appointment of the Commissioner, or of another police officer nominated by the Commissioner, to assist the Tribunal in connection with a proceeding before the Tribunal by furnishing advice to the Tribunal with respect to the nature of the action that it would be appropriate to take in respect of a police officer found by the Tribunal to have committed a breach of discipline; 
d ) the stay of proceedings before, or of a decision of, the Tribunal; and 
subject to sub-section (3), the payment of costs and expenses in respect of proceedings before the Tribunal and the assessment of those costs and expenses. "(3) Paragraph (2) (c) does not authorize the making of a regulation empowering the Tribunal to order a complainant who has been given leave to appear before the Tribunal to pay any costs or expenses of any other party to that proceeding. "(4) Subject to section 132, the Tribunal shall, in a proceeding before it by way of the hearing and determination of a charge referred to it under section 124 or an appeal made to it under section 125, give reasons in writing for its decision and those reasons shall include its findings on material questions of fact and a reference to the evidence or other material on which those findings were based. "(5) The Tribunal shall cause a copy of its decision and reasons to be furnished to each person who is, under the regulations, a party to the proceeding. " 1 35. ( 1 ) A member has, in the performance of his duty as a member, the same protection and immunity as a Justice of the High Court. "(2) A legal practitioner or other person appearing before the Tribunal has the same protection and immunity as a barrister has in appearing for a party in proceedings in the High Court. "(3) Subject to this Division, a person summoned to attend or appearing before the Tribunal as a witness has the same protection, and is, in addition to the penalties provided by this Division, subject to the same liabilities, as a witness in proceedings in the High Court. "Sub-Division 5- Appeals to Federal Court of Australia " 136. In this Sub-Division, unless the contrary intention appears- 
a reference to a proceeding before the Tribunal does not include a reference to a proceeding by way of inquiry into a matter referred to the Tribunal under section! 27; 
a reference to a question of law does not include a reference to the question whether there was sufficient evidence to justify a finding of fact by the Tribunal; and 
a reference to the Court is a reference to the Federal Court of Australia. " 137. ( 1 ) A person who was a party to a proceeding before the Tribunal may appeal to the Court, on a question of law, from a decision of the Tribunal in that proceeding. "(2) The appeal shall be instituted- 
within 28 days after the day on which a document setting out the terms of the decision of the Tribunal was furnished to the person or within such further time as the Court, whether before or after the expiration of that period allows; and 
in accordance with any applicable Rules of Court in force under the Federal Court of Australia Act 1 976. "(3) The Court has jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal and that jurisdiction shall be exercised by the Court constituted as a Full Court. "(4) The Court shall, in determining the appeal, make such order as it thinks appropriate. "(5) Without limiting by implication the generality of subsection (4), the orders that may be made by the Court on the appeal include an order affirming or setting aside the decision of the Tribunal and an order remitting the proceeding to be heard and determined again, either with or without the hearing of further evidence, by the Tribunal and in accordance with any directions of the Court. "(6) The institution of the appeal does not affect the operation of the decision of the Tribunal or prevent the taking of action to implement the decision but the Court may, on such conditions (if any) as it thinks fit- 
suspend the operation of the decision; or 
b ) stay all or any action under the decision. "(7) For the purposes of sub-section (6), the Court may be constituted by a single Judge. "138. (1) The Tribunal may, of its own motion or, if it thinks fit, on the application of a party to a proceeding before the Tribunal, refer a question of law arising in that proceeding for determination by the Court but, in the case of a proceeding before the Tribunal constituted by a member other than the  President,  a question shall not be so referred without the concurrence of the  President.  "(2) The Court has jurisdiction to hear and determine the question of law and that jurisdiction shall be exercised by the Court constituted as a Full Court. "(3) Where a question of law arising in a proceeding before the Tribunal has been referred to the Court under subsection ( I ), the Tribunal shall not, in that proceeding- 
) give a decision to which the question is relevant while the reference is pending; or 
b) proceed in a manner, or give a decision, that is inconsistent with the determination of the Court on the question. " 1 39. ( 1 ) Where an appeal is instituted in the Court under section 1 37 or a question of law is referred to the Court under section 138- 
the Tribunal shall, notwithstanding any direction under section 132, cause to be sent to the Court all documents that were before the Tribunal in connection with the proceedings to which the appeal or reference relates; and 
at the conclusion of the appeal, the Court shall cause the documents to be returned to the Tribunal. "(2) If there is in force in respect of any of the documents a direction under section 132 restricting or prohibiting the disclosure of any matter contained in a document, the Court shall, subject to any order of the Court to the contrary, ensure that that matter is not disclosed to a person other than a member of the Court as constituted for the purposes of the appeal. "Sub-Division 6- General "140. A person served with a summons to appear as a witness before the Tribunal shall not, without reasonable excuse- 
a ) fail to attend as required by the summons; or 
b ) fail to appear and report himself from day to day unless excused, or released from further attendance, by the Tribunal. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. " 141. ( 1 ) A person appearing as a witness before the Tribunal shall not, without reasonable excuse, refuse or fail- 
to be sworn or to make an affirmation; 
to answer a question that he is required to answer by the Tribunal; or 
to produce a document that he was required to produce by a summons under this Act served on him as prescribed. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. "(2) Subject to sub-section (3), it is a reasonable excuse for such a person to refuse or fail to answer a question or to produce a document if the answer to the question, or the document, may tend to prove that he has committed an offence against a law or, in the case of a police officer, that he has been guilty of a breach of discipline. "(3) Where the Tribunal is inquiring into a matter that has been referred to it by the Minister under section 127, a person appearing before the Tribunal to give evidence or produce documents is not excused from answering a question or producing a document on the ground that the answer to the question, or the document, may tend to prove that he has committed an offence against a law or, in the case of a police officer, that he has been guilty of a breach of discipline. "(4) Evidence given or a document produced by a person upon an inquiry referred to in sub-section (3) is not admissible against him in any civil or criminal proceedings other than proceedings for an offence against this section or against section 35 or 36 of the Crimes Act 1914. " 142. A person shall not- 
insult or disturb a member of the Tribunal in the exercise of his powers or functions as a member; 
interrupt the proceedings of the Tribunal; 
create a disturbance in or near a place where the Tribunal is sitting; or 
do any other act or thing that would, if the Tribunal were a court of record, constitute a contempt of that court. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. " 143. ( 1 ) The  President  shall, as soon as practicable after 30 June in each year, submit to the Minister, for presentation to the Parliament, a report of the operations of the Tribunal during that year. "(2) The Minister shall cause the report to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 1 5 sitting days of that House after its receipt by him. "(3 ) The first report under this section shall be submitted as soon as practicable after 30 June first occurring after the date of commencement of this Division and shall relate to the operations of the Tribunal during the period that commenced on that date and ended on that 30 June. 
"DIVISION V-MISCELLANEOUS" 
" 144. ( 1 ) A police officer who holds a rank declared by the regulations to be a rank to which this section applies shall, at all times when he is wearing his police uniform, wear on, or attached to, the front of his uniform- 
the badge of the Police Force; and 
his identification number. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. "(2) A reference to a police officer who holds a rank includes a reference to a police officer who temporarily holds that rank. "(3) The Commissioner shall take such steps as are necessary to enable police officers to whom sub-section ( 1 ) applies to comply with that sub-section. " 145. A police officer who is requested by a person to furnish to the person his name or the address of his place of duty; or both, and is informed by the person; or is otherwise aware, that the person is complaining, or proposes to complain, concerning action taken by that police officer- 
shall not refuse or fail to comply with the request; 
b ) shall not furnish to the person a false name; and 
shall not furnish to the person as the address of his place of duty an address other than the full and correct address of his ordinary place of duty. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. " 146. ( 1) A person shall not, in or in connection with a complaint made to a police officer concerning action taken by a police officer or by the Police Force, furnish information, or make a statement, to the first-mentioned police officer that he knows to be false or misleading in a material particular. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. "(2) A person shall not be convicted of an offence against sub-section ( 1 ) unless the evidence that he knew the information or statement to be false or misleading in a material particular is corroborated by a peson other than a police officer. 
This amendment seeks to add after clause 80 a new whole Part to the Bill comprising proposed new clauses 81 to 146, which Part deals with the subject matter of complaints against police. As a further amendment, after this one is dealt with, I propose to move the Opposition's amendment No. 53 which relates to vicarious liability or torts committed by police officers but I do not propose to deal with that now. I will deal with that separately. The question of complaints against the police is an extremely important one. The amendment now before the Committee is quite  possibly one of the longest single amendments ever moved in this Parliament occupying as it does some 43 pages of typescript. Again I do not detain the Committee by reading it. I would hope that although we are obviously pressed for time we could give this proposed new Part slightly less cursory attention than it received during the Committee stage in the other place when in fact the whole of this amendment was dealt with by that chamber in three and a half minutes. The subject matter is extremely important and although I will not trespass on the time of the Committee for very long I think this amendment needs just a little less cursory treatment than that. 
The amendment is taken directly from the draft Bill appended to the ninth report of the Australian Law Reform Commission entitled Complaints Against the Police: Supplementary Report'. The circumstances which gave rise to the production of that report and the relationship it bears to the earlier report of the Commission on this same subject have been dealt with in my speech in the second reading debate and I do not propose to go over that ground again. What I do propose is very briefly to summarise the substance of this amendment and explain to the Committee and the Government why it is that we of the Opposition think it ought to be adopted. The main thing that this amendment is seeking to do is to introduce new machinery for the resolution of complaints, whether internally or more importantly externally, generated against the police. The machinery proposed involves the use of three distinct instruments to infuse elements of independence into the complaint determination process. Those three elements are respectively: The Ombudsman; a special unit of the police force; and a police tribunal. It is proposed that the Ombudsman would have the position, for a start, of neutral territory for the receipt of complaints and further to have the role of investigator of last resort. He also will have the role of public guardian, as the Law Reform Commission put it in its report, to require certain public complaints to be scrutinised in a public forum. 
The second instrument in the machinery is a special unit of the police force which in the draft amendments is entitled 'the internal discipline section' and which is modelled on the famous A- 10 unit of Scotland Yard. It is proposed that this unit be separate and distinct from the main body of the police operations and, for that reason, it will have a greater degree of efficiency and accumulated experience and independence in dealing with complaints. The third element is the proposed new police tribunal to deal with matters that go to the stage of a charge being laid, which tribunal is to be constituted by a single member and the  president  of which, it proposed, will be a judge. 
Briefly the machinery which is proposed to deal with complaints, however initiated, is as follows: First of all, as to the receipt of complaints, it is proposed in our amendments that complaints be received either orally or in writing and that they be made either to the police, as is the case at the moment, or as well to the neutral territory constituted by the Ombudsman. So members of the public who presently might be deterred at the prospect of complaining to a policeman about another policeman's behaviour are given the opportunity by this Bill to complain directly to the Ombudsman. Secondly, as to the investigations of complaint so received, it is proposed that normally such investigations be conducted by the proposed internal discipline section of the new force. However, by our amendment the Ombudsman would be given a special discretion in four specifically described cases to undertake an independent investigation of his own. These cases include circumstances where, firstly, the complaint involves a member of the police force who is senior to all members of the internal discipline section; secondly, the complaint involves a member of the section itself; thirdly, the complaint is related to a matter that the Ombudsman has already investigated; and, fourthly, the Ombudsman is simply of the opinion that it is in the public interest that the complaint should be investigated by him. Those are the proposals relating to the investigation of complaints. 
The next machinery matter is the question of actually bringing charges that arise out of such an investigation. It is proposed in this amendment that if a criminal charge suggests itself, that should be brought and dealt with in the ordinary way- through the courts. If it is thought more appropriate that something in the nature of a disciplinary charge be brought against the alleged offending officer, such disciplinary charges are to be dealt with by the police tribunal. The decision as to how to handle a matter and whether to bring a charge is left normally within the discretion of the police force itself by this legislation. But there is provision for the Ombudsman, where a difference arises in respect of the proper way of dealing with an externally initiated complaint, to ensure unilaterally that that charge is laid and proceeds to be determined by the tribunal. 
Fourthly, and lastly, I refer to provisions relating to the operation of the tribunal itself. In the amendments there are a very large number of provisions dealing with this. Let me simply deal with the more important of them as quickly as I can. The composition of the tribunal, as I have already mentioned, is proposed to be a single member judicial-type tribunal presided over by a judge. The proceedings of the tribunal are proposed normally to be conducted in public. Further, it is proposed that the penalties should be decided by the tribunal itself but acting in this case with the assistance of a senior police officer as an assessor. Further, it is provided that important decisions of the tribunal be published with due consideration nonetheless of orders that might be made concerning confidentiality. Finally, it is provided that there be a right of appeal to the Australian Federal Court on matters of law. 
A very elaborate network of provisions is proposed by the Opposition in this very lengthy amendment. I take it that it is unnecessary to labour the point to the Committee as to the crucial importance of having a proper and balanced complaint resolution system in which the public can have full confidence. Events in Queensland, as demonstrated by the findings of the Lucas committee, in Victoria, as demonstrated by the findings of the Beach inquiry, in New South Wales and in most other parts of Australia have demonstrated just how grave can be both the allegations and the findings that can be made in respect of those allegations and how unsatisfactory the existing complaint resolution process is. 
It would be fair to say that in the Commonwealth arena- the operations of the Commonwealth Police Force and the Australian Capital Territory Police Force, which are to be amalgamated into the new Australian Federal Police- there has been a lesser incidence of complaints and a greater degree of public trust. Nonetheless, the Opposition believes that there can be no reason whatsoever for failing to implement, indeed right from the outset of the operation of this new force, as  Sir Robert  Mark himself recommended, a proper systematic set of machinery for dealing with the determination of complaints, particularly complaints laid by members of the public. 
We have had an undertaking from the Government that something in the nature of legislation on this subject will be introduced at some unspecified time in the future. It is the view of the Opposition that the Australian Law Reform Commission's recommendations, themselves the subject of enormously wide consultation and lengthy deliberation, represent a model balanced statutory formula for which there is no excuse whatsoever for the Government not accepting as a package as written and incorporating into this legislation now. The Oppositions moves accordingly. 
-Finally, in this saga of unhappily received amendments, I move: 
After clause 80, page 27, add the following new Part: 
"PART  IX-TORTS  COMMITTED BY POLICE OFFICERS 
" 147. ( 1 ) The Commonwealth is liable in respect of a tort committed by a police officer in the performance or purported performance of his duties as such an officer in like manner as a person is liable in respect of a tort committed by his employee in the course of his employment, and shall, in respect of such a tort, be treated for all purposes as a joint tortfeasor with the police officer. "(2 ) In a claim by the Commonwealth for damages in respect of a tort, an act or omission of a police officer in the performance or purported performance of his duties as a police officer may be relied on as constituting contributory negligence by the Commonwealth if the act or omission could have been so relied on if it had been done by an employee of the Commonwealth in the course of his employment. "(3) The liability of the Commonwealth under subsection ( I ) does not extend to a liability to pay damages in the nature of punitive damages. "(4) Where damages or costs, other than damages in the nature of punitive damages, are, in proceedings with respect to a tort committed by a police officer in the performance or purported performance of his duties as such an officer, directed to be paid by the police officer, the Commonwealth may pay to the plaintiff the whole or a part of those damages or costs and may pay to the police officer any costs incurred by him in the proceedings and not recovered. "(5) Where a sum is liable to be paid by a police officer under a settlement agreed to by him of a claim that has, or might have, given rise to proceedings of the kind referred to in sub-section (4), the Commonwealth may pay the whole or a part of that sum. "(6) Where the Commonwealth- 
pays to a plaintiff moneys by way of damages or costs in respect of a tort committed by a police officer, being moneys that the Commonwealth is liable to pay by reason of sub-section ( 1 ); 
pays moneys in accordance with sub-section (4); or 
pays a sum in accordance with sub-section ( 5 ), the Commonwealth may recover, in a court of competent jurisdiction, contribution from the police officer in respect of the payment. "(7) In proceedings for contribution under sub-section (6), the amount of the contribution recoverable is such amount as the court finds to be just and equitable in all the circumstances. "(8) For the purposes of this section- 
an act or omission of a police officer in the capacity of a constable, under whatever authority he was appointed as such, shall be deemed to have been done in the performance of his duties as a police officer; and 
a reference to a plaintiff includes a reference to a defendant counter-claiming. ". 
As I mentioned with respect to an earlier amendment, the common law position, as has been established in the Enever case and other cases, is that police officers are not regarded as either employees or as agents of the Crown which employs them. The result is that police officers are treated by the common law as being personally liable for any injury which may be wrongfully caused by them in the execution of their duty. Whilst it has been argued that this concentrates wonderfully the minds of police officers and acts as a disincentive to misbehaviour on their part, for a long time it has been apparent that that particular rule indeed is capable of causing very great injustice. 
In the first place, in situations in which an injured party can identify the police offender in question and actually can win a case against that officer, that victory might well prove quite hollow and meaningless if the police officer in question is of limited means. In those circumstances it is a matter of simply waiting upon the Commonwealth to make some ex gratia or grace and favour payment, which it is not obliged to do and which it may or may not be of a mind to make in the particular case to satisfy the damages award. Furthermore, in a situation in which the injured person cannot identify the offending police officer- that is not an unknown situation; for example, when a scuffle develops and the officer in question is in plainclothes or is wearing insufficient identification, or there is a possibility of confusion between that officer and another officer- under the present rules the injured party effectively is denied any form of legal redress. 
It is apparent that that situation, which presently is the law with respect to police officers, is quite out of line with that which now prevails everywhere in other areas of government service and, indeed, everywhere else in the economy, where general statutory provisions relating to the implementation of vicarious liability are now in fact universal and have been long established. Accordingly, the Opposition agrees with the Australian Law Reform Commission, whose recommendations again we adopt, this time without any drafting modifications of our own, so I think that in this case the drafting will prove to be entirely satisfactory. The amendment I moved is to the effect that there should be an explicit statutory provision which makes the Commonwealth Government vicariously liable for the torts of its police officers. The recommendations of the Commission which we have incorporated in our amendment again have been the subject of extensive inquiry and consultation. They seem to have universal support from the Government; certainly they have it from the police officers; and they have it from the community at large. Again, there would appear to be no reason whatsoever for the opportunity not to be taken to incorporate in this legislation this long overdue reform. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 3 April 1979: 
1 ) Is one of the two great windows in the new High Court Building to contain a portrayal of the British Coat of Arms. 
What is the reason for this latest manifestation of the colonial cringe, particularly since the abolition of all Federal appeals to the Privy Council. 
At whose instigation was the decision made to portray the British Arms. 
Does it have the support of all, or a majority, of the High Court Judges. 
5 ) Does it have the support of the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
Has the United States Government made a decision to take up or 'espouse' before the International Court of Justice the Dillingham Corporation's claim to compensation from the Australian Government in respect of the closure of its sand-mining operations on Fraser Island? If so: 
Does this decision represent a spectacular failure of the Minister's attempts at diplomacy in this area, and make nonsense of Australia's so-called special relationship with the United States; and 
What is the Government's present assessment of the likely outcome of any such case brought against it in the International Court? 
I ask the Attorney-General: Was  Mr Bruce  Gyngell in contact with the Attorney-General's Department before announcing the decision of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal in regard to the television licence transfer applications made by Channel 10, Sydney, and WIN 4, Wollongong? What advice, if any, was given to  Mr Gyngell  by the Department as to how the Tribunal should decide these cases? In substance, was  Mr Gyngell  told, as has been suggested in a recent issue of the newsletter  Inside Canberra,  that if he refused the Murdoch application he would be on his own and would get no legal backing from the AttorneyGeneral 's Department? 
I second the amendment.  (Quorum formed).  When stripped to their essentials these two Bills provide in effect for payments of the two following kinds to High Court judges in particular and to Federal judges generally. First of all, there is provision for an additional payment of 12 months' salary on the retirement of the judge in question after 10 years' or more service. Secondly, there is the provision for pro rata payment on death of 5.2 weeks' salary for each year of service which the judge has given. These payments are expressed to be reduced by the amount of the actual long leave which the judge may have taken and to that extent the payments provided for in this legislation are payments in lieu of long service leave. 
As we were told by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  when he introduced this legislation, we now have embodied in legislationthat is, in the Bills before us- what hitherto has been merely the subject of administrative arrangements which as such have been the subject of considerable criticism by a Senate Estimates committee in 1977, as  Senator Button  pointed out. While the Opposition certainly applauds the decision, belated as it is in its accomplishment, actually to embody financial arrangements of this kind in legislative form rather than to leave them to ex gratia payments and the operation of convention and administrative arrangements, we are certainly not at all happy with the terms of this particular legislation which is now before us. 
The essential reasons for our unhappiness are those summarised by  Senator Button  in terms of the second reading amendment which is before this chamber. It seems to me that there are three basic criticisms which can be directed to these Bills. Let me spell them out in turn. The first is that, as does any payment in lieu of the taking of leave of any kind, the provisions of a lump sum cash payment here must be regarded, at least to some extent, as encouraging the acceptance by judges of payment in lieu of leave rather than the actual physical taking of leave by them. This, I understand, has been the practice for many years, particularly at the High Court level where long leave has been taken only in fairly isolated instances and has not been regarded as something which the judges took as a regular matter. However, in our view it is not desirable for judges, any more than it is for anyone else in the community, to accumulate leave of this kind and take it in cash form rather than to enjoy it as it falls due. We make this point, as the Government has been heard to make it on a number of occasions at least in the context of annual leave, particularly in the context of jobs of the kind in issue here which involve very considerable stresses and strains on the incumbents. We regard it as both appropriate and desirable that occupants of judicial office, particularly high appellate judicial office take leave as it falls due. There is an unfortunate incentive to that extent embodied in this legislation for them not to do that. 
The desirability of persons of this character and decision taking this leave was in fact something which was emphasised by a number of Government back benchers in another place. I recall that in May when this matter was debated in the other chamber, the honourable member for Fadden,  Mr Donald  Cameron, said: 
Sometimes when I watch the efforts of some Ministers-  referring to his own Ministers - 
I think that the holiday period should be extended-  beyond the two weeks which they are customarily in the habit of taking--  to perhaps three or even four weeks. 
That point becomes perhaps particularly pertinent to those of us who heard  Mr Newman,  the Minister for National Development, referring this morning three times in the course of the radio program  AM  to the 'United Arab Emigrants'- not 'Emirates' as one might have expected. As my colleague  Senator Sibraa  said, this is something one might expect from a National Country Party Minister, but it represents a sad deterioration in standards for the once great Liberal Party. Even Ministers, it seems, from time to time require a more extended period of leave than they seem able to get under present arrangements. 
We would make the same point, sharing the sentiments of the honourable member for Fadden, in respect of judges. We make that point particularly in the context, as I have said, of judges of high appellate standing who are subject to very great stresses and strains and who deserve rest accordingly. There are some less than charitable souls who might hope that the leave taken by some High Court Justices would be of a more permanent character than is provided for in this particular legislation. Without going so far as to suggest anything of that kind the Opposition makes the point that judges ought to be encouraged to take leave and not simply to accumulate an entitlement and cash it in the way they are allowed to do by this particular legislation. 
The second and perhaps most substantial criticism of this legislation is that it sets standards for long service leave which are far in excess of the norm prevailing in the community generally and certainly in excess of the norm prevailing in the Public Service. The norm in the community generally is a figure of something like nine days of long service leave accumulated for each year of service carried out as compared with 5.2 weeks which is the relevant figure here. One cannot help but note that legislation of this kind can do nothing but encourage unions, particularly the Public Service and white collar unions, to seek the extension of benefits of this kind to themselves. No doubt when claims of this kind are made they will be met by the Government, with all the hypocrisy which it is usually able to muster on these occasions, with a clear, straightforward and unequivocal rejection. The Government is tempting fate by passing legislation of this kind and by setting standards of this kind. 
While it may be that judges are deserving of proper financial consideration for taking up the burdens that they do, it is difficult to argue that they are especially deserving, more so than other members of the community who work equally hard for a living. It is, it seems, just a matter of judges, whether waving their robes or exercising some other kind of strategic power, being a small group of strategically located employees who are able to exercise industrial muscle which is out of all proportion to their desserts. It is a phenomenon which this Government is not loth to criticise in a very elaborate and rumbustious form when it is experienced in other industrial contexts, and in my suggestion it is a phenomenon which the Government ought to be equally robust about condemning and rejecting when it occurs in a judicial context. It is not to the point that this legislation is simply embodying an established convention or administrative practice. If there has been such a practice which has emerged and developed over recent years to pay these sorts of sums on an ex gratia basis, it is a practice which ought to cease. In the present stringent economic and public sector financial climate that we are constantly told about, this is one particular gravy train which, in the Opposition's submission, ought to come to a halt. 
I think if the honourable senator reads the  Hansard,  he will appreciate- 
I have no doubt that with the honourable senator's customary attention to detail, even from some 12,000 miles distance, he will be only too able to draw attention to any anomalies which might appear. Nor is it to the point, in case this particular matter might be thought by the Attorney-General to be relevant when he replies, that judges are deserving of some special financial consideration because in most cases they are giving up substantially greater incomes than they receive as judges on the Bench. I make the point, whether or not my colleague  Senator Button  also makes it, that barristers who get of the order of $80,000 to $ 100,000 or more per year by way of income are, by any standards, however hard they work, being overpaid. To that extent a barrister's income ought not be treated by the Government, or anyone else, as a relevant consideration when working out the kinds of fringe benefits to which judges ought to be entitled by virtue of their judicial office. Perhaps a further point that needs to be made here is that judges' salaries are fixed basically by a remuneration tribunal and it is to that remuneration tribunal, in respect of Federal judges generally, that arguments of this particular kind ought to be put in order that proper considerations might be applied, rather than one-off random considerations of the kind which seem to have lain behind the initial development of this administrative practice and which are now enshrined in this particular legislation. 
A third criticism which the Opposition makes of this Bill is that it does not provide- and I certainly understood  Senator Button  to be making this point with some vigour- any pro rata payment for justices who are forced to retire before completing 10 years' service. This, in my submission, is quite anomalous, not least because, first of all, many other employees in the community- I suggest most other employees- do have pro rata provisions of some kind in their long service leave entitlements. I understand in particular that the position with respect to Commonwealth public servants under recently enacted legislation is that there is a pro rata provision which applies after only one year's service in the event of age or invalidity forcing the retirement of the public servant in question. A further anomaly that occurs to one as a result of the absence of any pro rata provision is the extraordinary one that judges may feel themselves placed by this legislation in a position where it is financially advantageous to them, or at least I suppose I should say to their families, for them to die on the job, to continue working when they are manifestly ill, rather than retiring, because if they are in a situation where they have not yet accumulated their basic 10 years' service they will get no cash return in lieu of long service leave forgone. That seems to me a quite obviously anomalous provision which flows very directly from the provisions before us, and in particular the failure of those provisions to conform to the kind of provisions which are applicable in most other parts of the community, and in particular are applicable to Commonwealth employees under the Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1976. It is for those reasons that I support the second reading amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
1 ) Are staff numbers at the Melbourne office of the Australian Legal Aid Office (A.L.A.O.) below the authorised level; if so, what efforts are being made to bring them up to full level. 
) What is the anticipated date for the transfer of the Victorian office of A.L.A.O. to the Victorian Legal Aid Commission. 
by leave- I move: 
Page 10, clause 1 1, sub-clause (2), paragraph (d), line 27, leave out 'the Director-General of Security may', insert 'the Attorney-General may orally authorize the DirectorGeneral to'. 
Page 1 1, clause 1 1, sub-clause (S), paragraph (a), lines 3 and 4, leave out '6 months', insert '90 days'. 
The first of the two amendments relates again to the question of emergency authorisation, this time in respect of telegrams rather than telecommunications generally, for which the argument has already been put. The second of the amendments to this clause relates to the reduction of time for telegram warrants from six months to 90 days. Again, the argument has been put. I will not detain the Senate further. 
-Senator Puplick has been perverse, as he so often is. This is not the occasion to take us through a tour, however glittering, of the recesses of his understanding of the narcotics penalty provisions in the Customs Act. A more appropriate occasion for that excursion undoubtedly will be when we come to the Customs legislation. I suggest that  Senator Puplick  confine his and the Senate's attention to the real issue before us, which I state simply as follows: We are not talking about whether the amount of a prohibited substance possessed is such that it might conceivably prove interesting to a narcotics officer chasing the sources of that substance. Almost any conceivable amount, however minute, when found to be in the possession of a particular person might prove to be interesting. The quantum is not of the essence for that argument. What we are talking about is whether the amount in the possession of the person in question is of such volume and whether the offence committed thereby is so serious as to justify, on the merest suspicion, the tapping of that person's telephone for periods of up to six months, which is what this legislation is all about. 
I detain the Committee further only to say that the distinction which lies behind the Opposition's amendment, suggesting that it might be appropriate for these powers to apply in respect of certain kinds of offences but not others, is not simply a product of our own preference but is one that has the full support of the Australian Law Reform Commission. As honourable senators should remember, and indeed  Senator Puplick  should remember since he quoted the passage, at page 107 of the criminal investigation report the Commission said that these powers to issue warrants should be available only in respect of very serious offences. The footnote goes on to discuss what might constitute very serious offences in the context of electronic surveillance. Without going into nauseous detail at this hour, I suggest that the kind of criteria which have been articulated by  Senator Button  in his amendment are such as would satisfy the thrust, the substance, the spirit and the principle which lies behind that Law Reform Commission recommendation and that accordingly this amendment ought to be accepted by the Senate. 
-Let me begin in an unaccustomed fashion by congratulating the Government for at least a couple of aspects of this Bill, the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill, which is now before us. It is, of course, a replacement Bill for an earlier one of the same name introduced last session in company with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation legislation. It has to be conceded that this Bill is a marked improvement on the earlier one which it now replaces. It is a marked improvement insofar as it now provides for the judicial rather than the ministerial issue of warrants in respect of narcotic offences. It is a substantially improved piece of legislation just in terms of its organisation, its coherence, its layout and its readability. That is something on which I think comment ought to be made. It ought not to pass unnoticed. It is a difficult area of legislation and it is pleasing to have reasonably well articulated legislative provisions now before us. 
However, the clarity of this legislation only serves to demonstrate rather more obviously than was the case in the earlier drafts of this Bill, its iniquity in a number of regrettably all too obvious respects. It is the unfortunate aspects of this legislation which make it necessary for the Opposition to oppose it quite vigorously as it now stands and which lead us to move a number of amendments in the Committee stage. The Bill operates in two areas as has become clear, I suppose, from the course of the debate so far. It operates, firstly, in respect of ASIO and, secondly, in respect of narcotics offences under the Customs Act. So far as ASIO is concerned, the provisions of the Bill are by and large not new. The Bill is very largely simply a re-enactment of the provisions of the old Telecommunications (Interception) Act extended, however, from simply telephone tapping, which was permitted in respect of security matters by that earlier legislation, to the interception of all forms of telecommunications. 
That particular extension from telephones to other forms of telecommunications was recommended by the Hope Commission. That is not a recommendation which the Opposition would oppose. Obviously it is rational in principle that no distinction be drawn in the way those various forms of telecommunications are treated. That is not to say, however, that this aspect of the Bill is without difficulty, without problems, without iniquity so far as the Opposition is concerned. We do argue, as will become clear in the Committee stage, that there are still a number of defects in the way this legislation is framed, albeit that there are difficulties that have been with this legislation in earlier guises under previous enactments. The new provisions in this respect are not unique or new in that sense. The particular matters to which I refer are the time for which warrants can be in force for security matters. Firstly, the Bill provides, as did its predecessor legislation, for a period of six months which we argue is just much too long. Secondly, there are provisions in relation to the issue of warrants in emergency situations which take the matter away from ministerial authority and vest it in a non-elected official, the Director-General of Security. We regard that as intolerable. Thirdly, there are obvious problems, we argue, in the absence from this legislation of any provisions which would require Parliament to be informed regularly if not as to all the details of the warrants issued under the Bill certainly as to the number of such warrants which are issued annually. I do not stop to canvass here the arguments which lie behind our whole approach to ASIO legislation and ASIO powers of this or any other kind. They were obviously canvassed at great length in the course of the debate on the ASIO legislation and to some extent they were repeated here tonight certainly by my colleague,  Senator Gietzelt. 
The other main aspect of the legislation on which I think it is necessary to say a little more, albeit relatively briefly, at this second reading stage concerns the narcotics provisions and the brand new and completely unprecedented powers that are now to be vested in the Customs officials in the Narcotic Bureau in respect of the enforcement of the Customs Act in the event of narcotics offences. New powers to intercept telephone calls and other telecommunications are now vested in Customs narcotics officials. We have brand new unprecedented powers for such officials to arrange for the interception of telegrams. We have provisions which enable these warrants to be exercised on a not especially selective or circumscribed basis but to stay in force in these matters for up to six months at a time. 
The Opposition can well understand the concern in the community about the all too rapid escalation of drug usage in our society, a concern that was very well articulated tonight by the amateur streetwalker in our midst,  Senator Chipp.  I suppose a tightrope walker might be a more accurate description in the light of the difficulty in which  Senator Chipp  seems to find himself in coming to a decision on the question of marihuana decriminalisation. Be that as it may, it was a concern well expressed by him and one which is widely felt in the community at large. May be that concern justifies new powers being invested in our key narcotic law enforcement officials. 
However, this Bill as it presently stands is alarming in a number of respects. Not the least alarming feature is that it was brought forward at all at this time, given the very large and black cloud which now hangs over the head of the Narcotics Bureau under the present Bureau of Customs. It is a cloud we all know about. It has been the subject of a great deal of debate in this Parliament and the community at large and no doubt will be the subject of a great deal more when we come to consider the detailed customs legislation later in this session. I refer to the revelations made in the aftermath of the death of the Wilson couple in Victoria. It was stated that there had been a criminal penetration of the Narcotics Bureau and that there was someone within that Bureau leaking intelligence information to drug syndicates, which leakage of information was drawn to the Bureau's attention as early as the beginning of 1978, fully 12 months before the matters were drawn to the Government's attention. The situation came to light only in the aftermath of the murder of the Wilson couple, the people who had been responsible, it seems, for drawing these facts to the Bureau 's attention. This situation resulted in the Government's decision- quite a proper decision on the face of it- to authorise a multi-force investigation into the operations of the Narcotics Bureau. This decision, however, extraordinarily it seems, was taken without consultation with the Bureau chief,  Mr Harvey  Bates, and led to his resignation and the subsequent extraordinary saga of his reinstatement. 
A situation does obtain at the moment in which the problems about identifying the security that operates within the Narcotics Bureau have still not been resolved. On 8 June this year I asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  through  Senator Durack,  a question to the following effect: 
. why did the Government not consult the head of the Narcotics Bureau,  Mr Harvey  Bates, before setting in train the multi-force inquiry in question? ... if, as appears, it was because the Government lacked confidence in at least some aspects of  Mr Bates's  administration of the Bureau, why did the Government take such elaborately obsequious pains to persuade  Mr Bates  to withdraw his resignation? 
The question was answered on 17 July in a letter addressed to me from the Minister. He merely referred me to copies of his Press statements on the Bates question and went on to say: 
As the inquiry into the allegations against the activities of an unnamed officer of the Bureau are as yet to be finalised, 1 consider it would bc inappropriate of me to comment further at this stage. 
We have a situation where the cloud which is hanging over the head of the Bureau is quite unresolved; yet this Government, with breathtaking insensitivity, proposes to vest in officers of the Bureau who may well have been involved in the perpetration of some extraordinary criminal misbehaviour powers the like of which are totally unprecedented in Australian legal and statutory experience. The real inappropriateness, it seems to me, is not any further comment from the Government on this matter until the inquiry is finalised; the real inappropriateness lies in this legislation being brought forward at all at this time before this matter is resolved to everybody 's satisfaction. 
The other major concern the Opposition has about the Bill- let us assume it is now before us and look at its terms- is that it ignores basic safeguards which have been recommended most strenuously by the Australian Law Reform Commission's report on criminal investigation. The Law Reform Commission said- the passages were quoted at length by  Senator Puplick  earlier tonight- that it may be that electronic surveillance, telephone tapping, listening devices and the rest can be justified as a legitimate law enforcement weapon when one is concerned with certain kinds of crime. What the Commission said very clearly- it is a matter of great regret that the Government has not listened to those recommendations- was that the exercise of such powers should be safeguarded in various ways by being limited to very serious offences, which is not the case under this legislation, as will become clear when we speak to our first amendment. 
It is said, again by the Law Reform Commission, that the exercise of these powers should be limited to circumstances where other less draconian methods of law enforcement have been tried and failed or have proved impracticable. There is no such provision in this legislation. It is further said by the Law Reform Commission that the warrant powers in question should require that the warrants be issued in a form which states with great particularity the kind of electronic surveillance or intrusion that is authorised and not simply be warrants issued at large, as is the case under the legislation before us. There are no such limitations. The Law Reform Commission also says that the duration of such warrants should be strictly limited as to time. The Commission throws out a suggestion of 10 days, and it does so in the specific context of narcotics offences; but the time limit under this Bill is six months, in respect of both security matters and narcotics offences. 
The Law Reform Commission further recommended that there be a whole variety of preconditions which should apply before warrants are issued by judges in these particular matterspreconditions to ensure that the court has absolutely satisfied itself beyond doubt as to the reasonable basis for the suspicion of the officers in question and the propriety accordingly of issuing the warrant in question. There are no such safeguard provisions in this Bill, and it is sadly deficient as a result. 
It cannot be doubted that electronic surveillance, whether by telephone tapping, as is contemplated by this legislation, or by the use of listening devices- which we will come to consider under the Customs Act itself later this session- is a peculiarly effective method of law enforcement, in particular for organised crimes such as drug trafficking; but that is the beginning rather than the end of the argument. In civilised societies- I would hope that we still satisfy that description- the end does not always justify the means chosen to serve that end. If electronic surveillance devices are to be used that should be subject, as the Law Reform Commission has insisted, to the most stringent and rigorous controls- controls which should certainly involve the exercise of judicial rather than simply Ministerial authority when criminal offences are in issue, controls which are genuinely sensitive to the civil libertarian considerations which must always be balanced against the community's quite legitimate concern with the dimensions of the crime problem that is before it. Legislation of this kind must be strictly watched to ensure that it does not just become what I fear this Bill represents, an indefensible over-reaction to a basic phenomenon which we would all agree should be reacted to somehow. 
The most important objection to electronic eavesdropping is, as the Law Reform Commission has put it in paragraph 220 of its report, that by its very nature it is exploratory, unselective and indiscriminate. Innumerable conversations which are privileged, or of a personal and intimate character or otherwise quite irrelevant to the matters in issue, will be picked up once one engages in this kind of telephone tapping and the installation of listening devices. This is particularly so, of course if, as is the case here, the telephone tapping, the surveillance in question, can be carried on for periods of as long as three months or indeed six months. 
We have been told officially-  Senator Button  mentioned the figures earlier- that at least in the late sixties and early seventies, the last period for which we have official figures, under previous legislation something like 100 national security wire taps were authorised each year. The Law Reform Commission has estimated, based on the application to those figures of what we know about the United States experience, that this may have already created a situation in which as many as 12,000 different Australians, engaging in as many as 68,000 or 75,000 different conversations, are being overheard each year. Even given ASIO at its most enthusiastic, there are likely to be in this country, as has been pointed out often in this debate, at any one time many more suspected drug offenders than suspected subversives, and the number of Australians whose privacy could be invaded by the strict, literal application of the tests set out in the Bill, is quite staggering. It is suggested that there are perhaps as many as 400,000 regular marihuana users in this country and perhaps as many as two million casual users, and these represent only one group of the drug offenders who will be covered by this legislation. The implications are staggering and the legislation must have in it safeguards to ensure that it is not misused in such situations. 
The final matter about which the Opposition is concerned- it is one about which we can argue at great length in the Committee stage, but one that I wish to state briefly in winding up- is the absence of any provision for reporting to Parliament, or for that matter any other body in a public sense, the number of wire taps or interceptions, that are authorised in any given year, either in the security field or the field of criminal narcotics offences. It seems to the Opposition to be quite indefensible- as indeed it does to the New South Wales Privacy Committee which released its views on the subject some months ago- that there should be no requirement that information of this kind be made available to the Parliament. I do not refer to the setting out of details of particular cases or anything of the kind, but rather to making clear the nature and extent of the use of these devices, so that Parliament can exercise at least some control on behalf of the community of the way, in practice, this legislation is implemented. 
As is well known, information of that kind was given to the Parliament by  Senator Murphy,  as he then was, in 1973 when Attorney-General. He gave information about the number of national security wire taps that had been authorised during the previous 10 years. When he gave that information the sky did not fall in. We were better informed and it seems to me and to the Opposition that we and the community would be much better informed, and that this legislation would be capable of greater acceptance, if it were to contain in addition measures of that kind. 
It is for these reasons that the Opposition is quite alarmed at the character of the legislation, cannot support it and will be moving in the short time remaining to it this evening a number of amendments to make that position clear. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  It is with pleasure that I draw the attention of honourable senators to the presence in the gallery of the  Hon.  Sidney James Plowman, M.P.,  Speaker  of the Victorian Legislative Assembly.  Mr Speaker  is accompanied by the  Clerk  of the Assembly,  Mr John  Campbell. On behalf of honourable senators, I extend a warm welcome to our guests and express the hope that their visit to Canberra will be both pleasant and profitable. 
I move: 
Page 8, clause 9, sub-clause (5), line 29, leave out '6 months ', insert ' 90 days '. 
Put shortly, this amendment is to reduce the time period for a warrant in respect of security taps from six months to 90 days. This is consistent with the amendment which the Opposition moved to a similar provision in relation to listening devices when the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill was before this chamber. The proposition was rejected by the Government at that stage. We hope that the Government will think again about this amendment, particularly as there is a distinction of a practical kind between listening devices and telephone taps. Telephone interception is something which can be physically accomplished very easily whereas the installation of a listening device may well be, as a practical matter, something which occasions a great deal of difficulty and accordingly might be thought to justify a power to operate for a longer period of time. That particular rationale is not relevant to the case of telecommunications interception. I suggest that that is a ground for distinction. 
The general argument in favour of reducing the time period for electronic surveillance of any kind has been put at some length in this debate and earlier debates. As was stated by the Law Reform Commission, electronic surveillance of this kind is, by its very nature, exploratory, unselective and indiscriminate. For that reason it ought to be subject to very closely wraught safeguards. In the Law Reform Commission's opinion, reduced time periods is one such safeguard. It has been said by  Senator Chipp  that he does not think this is an especially radical type of proposition in the sense that the period of 90 days suggested for national security taps is still a relatively long one. I acknowledge that this amendment might well be thought not to go far enough, but at least it ought to be one for that reason, if no other, which is acceptable to the Government. The passage of an amendment in these terms would at the very least force a reappraisal after three months of the legitimacy, the effectiveness, of the particular interception for which the warrant has been sought. I commend the amendment to the Government accordingly. 
I simply put on record something that  Senator Button  omitted to mention but which the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  should have been much more familiar with than he demonstrated on this occasion. It is that this proposal, like so many others which have sat behind the Opposition's amendments, is derived directly from the recommendations of the Australian Law Reform Commission in its report on criminal investigation, which had a great deal to say about the warrant-issuing procedure under the Crimes Act, and indeed under other Federal legislation. 
The Commission drew the attention of the Government to the criticisms of that procedure that had been articulated by the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory in the case of the Queen v. Tillett ex parte Newton. It made quite explicit recommendations concerning reform of the warrant-issuing procedure to require, amongst other things, the preparation of a document, not as a matter of discretion but as a required course, in all circumstances where warrants were issued. Indeed, many other recommendations relating to the issuance of warrants were made by the Law Reform Commission and these are picked up, in particular, in proposed amendment No. 9 of the Opposition, which  Senator Button  will be moving in just a moment. 
I find it a matter of acute regret that this Government, which has shown its willingness to implement, at least at one stage of its term of office, the recommendations of that Commission in this respect- recommendations which were embodied in the Criminal Investigation Bill that was introduced during the tenure of  Mr Ellicott  as Attorney-General- has been guilty of so much manifest back-sliding, particularly during, I say with regret, the stewardship of the present Attorney-General in this matter. I would hope that he would appreciate that these recommendations, like so many others are not being advanced by the Opposition as a product of some thought under the shower this morning or at any other time. They are being advanced as a result of our careful consideration and picking up of recommendations- of which this is but onewhich have been the subject of very careful and detailed deliberation by the Law Reform Commission. I would hope that the Attorney-General would take that consideration into account in this and the subsequent amendments in this series. 
-Given the newly-expressed willingness of the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  to consider with an open mind the recommendations of the Law Reform Commission might I just add some remarks. In the particular context of drug law enforcement and the use of electronic surveillance in relation thereto, the Law Reform Commission did recommend that warrants be issued for no longer than 10 days at a time in relation to criminal offences of that kind. In identifying a particular time period it was not adverting to security situations in relation to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It was adverting to criminal offences generally including narcotics  offences. Bearing in mind that recommendation, the Opposition has moved for a quite reduced period of 30 days, in the hope of attracting some sympathetic consideration from the Government- a forlorn hope, it appears, in the light of what has happened during the last half hour. The Opposition did in fact allow an extra 20 days above the Law Reform Commission's suggested norm. We have proposed a lesser period than that in the Bill because in principle, as  Senator Button  said, a short period is eminently justified but a shorter period is justified by the peculiar nature of the offences in issue here and their difference from a security situation. 
I move: 
Page 1 5, after clause 20, insert the following new clause: 20a. ( I ) Where it is impracticable for an officer of Customs to make application to a Judge for the issue of a warrant in accordance with section 20, the officer of Customs may make application for the issue of a warrant in respect of a telecommunications service to a Judge, by telephone, in accordance with this section. 
Before making application to a Judge by telephone under sub-section ( 1 ), the officer of Customs shall prepare an affidavit setting out the grounds on which the issue of the warrant is being sought, but may, if it is necessary to do so, make the application before the affidavit has been sworn. 
Where a Judge is, upon application made under sub-section ( 1 ), satisfied- 
after having considered the terms of the affidavit prepared in accordance with sub-section (2); and 
after having had given to him such further information (if any) as he requires concerning the grounds on which the issue of the warrant is being sought, that there are reasonable grounds for issuing the warrant, the Judge shall issue such a warrant as he would issue under section 20 if the application had been made to him in accordance with that section. 
Where a Judge issues a warrant under sub-section (3)- 
a ) the Judge shall complete and sign the warrant: 
the Judge shall inform the officer of Customs of the terms of the warrant signed by him, and record on the warrant his reasons for issuing the warrant; and 
the officer of Customs shall complete a form of warrant in the terms furnished to him by the Judge and write on it the name of the Judge who issued the warrant and the date on which and the time at which it was issued. 
Where a Judge issues a warrant under sub-section (3), the officer of Customs shall, not later than the day next following the date of expiry of the warrant, forward to the Judge who issued the warrant the form of warrant prepared by him and the information and affidavit duly sworn in connection with the issue of the warrant. 
Upon receipt of the documents referred to in subsection (S), the Judge shall attach to them the warrant signed by him and deal with the documents in the manner in which he would have dealt with the information if the application for the warrant had been made to him in accordance with section 20. 
A form of warrant duly completed by the officer of Customs in accordance with sub-section (4), is, if it is in accordance with the terms of the warrant signed by the Judge, authority for the use of any listening device in relation to any particular person or premises that it authorises. 
Where it is necessary for a court, in any proceeding, to be satisfied that the use of a listening device was authorised by a warrant issued by a Judge in accordance with this section, and the warrant signed by a Judge in accordance with this section authorising the entry or seizure is not produced in evidence, the court shall assume, unless the contrary is proved, that the entry or seizure was not authorised by such a warrant and information thereby obtained is inadmissible as evidence. 
This amendment relates to telecommunications interception under the Customs legislation. The effect of it is to provide for telephone applications for warrants where it is impracticable to  follow the procedure set out in section 20. This proposed clause was drafted with the intention of supplementing our amendment to clause 20 which has, of course, just been defeated. In a sense it was made necessary by our proposed amendment to clause 20. If our amendment to clause 20 had been passed and it was accordingly necessary for applications for warrants to be in writing in all circumstances, there would have been difficulty in applying for warrants in urgent situations. At the moment, urgent situations are probably to be regarded as being accommodated by clause 20 (3) (a) to the extent that there is a reference to applications being able to be made orally. No doubt that is why the present Bill does not make specific provision for emergency applications for warrants. 
The Opposition moved this amendment because it was in a sense contingent upon the successful passage of its proposed amendment to clause 20. The fact that the Opposition's proposed amendment to clause 20 failed does not mean that it should withdraw this amendment, because the Opposition does regard it as appropriate that there be an emergency procedure specifically set out. The Opposition believes that the sense and practice of having an emergency procedure is manifest and, furthermore, there is the desirability of putting this amendment at least on the record in order that, hopefully, it and the preceding amendment might be further considered by the Government overnight and perhaps in another place given a little more sympathetic attention than it was given in the Senate tonight. 
At the risk of driving the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  up the wall, the only further point I make is that this is another recommendation which comes from the Law Reform Commission report. That report recommended the use of a telephone application procedure in this and a number of other matters as part of its general, quite sensible, theme that in law enforcement generally, the Government and the community ought not to ignore the technological developments that have occurred over the last 50 or 60 years, one of which has been the invention of the telephone. Just as other technological advances, such as the existence of tape recorders, ought not to be ignored when one is considering the best way of monitoring interrogations, so too should the existence of the telephone not continue to be ignored when one is trying to work out viable, up to date, sensible and effective methods of law enforcement. It is for those combinations of reasons that the Opposition moves the proposed new clause 20a. 
I detain the Committee only in order to read into the record what I think is an important recommendation which was made to the Government by the New South Wales Privacy Committee in a publicly released letter from  Mr W.  J. Orme, the executive member of the Committee, on 23 March 1978 addressed to the  Hon.  W. C. Fife, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Part of that letter constitutes a recommendation that there should be a disclosure to Parliament of the extent of interceptions under the Customs Act. I read the relevant paragraph as follows: 
At least each three months Parliament should be informed of: 
the number of warrants issued; 
the number of warrants requested and refused; 
where they apply to telephones, the total number of the telephone services the subject of the warrants; 
a break down of the number of uses of other types of devices by device; 
the number of conversations listened into by each type of device; 
each of the above figures broken down wherever possible by State. 
I commend that recommendation to the attention of the Government, reminding the Government that the New South Wales Privacy Committee is a body with an admirably established reputation during the period that it has been a going concern. It is a body which has a great deal of sensitivity and understanding in these issues. I would hope not only that the Government would accept the recommendation to put into the Bill a statutory requirement for parliamentary reporting but also that in meeting that statutory requirement it would follow the guidelines which have been laid out by the Privacy Committee. For the sake of the record I remind the Committee that parliamentary reporting- not of Customs warrants, because of course there has been no provision for electronic surveillance in the narcotics-Customs area before, but in the even more sensitive area of security- has been accomplished in the past. I refer once again to the by now well known answer of  Senator Lionel  Murphy as Attorney-General, as recorded in the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 12 April 1973. It was a path breaking answer which put on record the experience in terms of the bald number of telephone taps in the security area which had taken place in each of the years 1 964 to 1973. 
I make a final plea to the Government. Even if the Government continues to reject the notion of there being any kind of parliamentary reporting in relation to national security matters- a position which, regrettably, it made perfectly clear in the course of the debate on the ASIO legislation- will it please consider giving us proper parliamentary reporting of the use of warrants for electronic surveillance in the Customs area so that we as a Parliament, on behalf of the Australian community, can get some indication of how these powers are being used. The Government would not be giving anything away to the various nasties it is tracking down in this area by advising the Parliament of the kind of information that is suggested by the New South Wales Privacy Committee. If indeed there are many such interceptions this information perhaps would convey to the Australian community in a peculiarly graphic way what I take it the Government and  Senator Chipp  are certainly both interested in doing, that is, conveying to the community the scale of the problem. 
If the Government is not willing to provide this kind of information to the Parliament and to the community it can do nothing other than to create a suspicion- I fear an all too legitimate suspicion- in the minds of the community that it is misusing these powers on a substantial scale and that it is anxious to conceal the scale of that misuse. I see no reason why the kind of matters to which I have referred cannot be the subject of parliamentary reporting in either the national security or the narcotics law context. But if the Government is going to insist on its already articulated attitude in relation to national security, surely it is at least able to appreciate the distinction between that subject matter and the criminal law one in the narcotics area and accordingly make the concession of accepting our amendment in that context. 
-The expression 'legislative character' is certainly not a term of legal art in the same way as is the expression 'judicial character'. If it were a term of legal art, as is the notion of judicial character or judicial power, that probably still would not solve too many of our problems. As lawyers well know, one of the most nightmarishly and fiendishly complex areas of the law is that area of constitutional law which involves the delineation of what is an exercise of judicial power as distinct from an exercise of non-judicial power. Even taking that consideration into account- that is, that the expression is not a term of legal art and even if it were that probably still would not simplify matters in terms of the day to day conduct of the business of this place- it ought to be appreciated nonetheless that the expression 'of a legislative character' is likely to be, for all practical purposes, a perfectly usable expression, a perfectly usable formula, a formula that is likely to cause no great practical difficulties. 
We are familiar with the expression of and references to things being of a legislative character in a number of contexts already, not least the regulations which are made under the Statutory Rules Publication Act where this expression is, in fact, set out as one of the criteria which determine whether particular forms of subordinate legislation are published in the statutory rules volumes. We are used to it in that context. It seems to me that the position of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee in recommending, as it has, that this expression be used, which recommendation has now been picked up by the Standing Orders Committee, recognises that it is an expression in relatively common use, at least around this place and around government. It is an expression that is likely not to cause a great deal of practical difficulty. 
If one can point to any single criterion which helps us to elucidate whether a particular rule is one of a legislative character, I suppose the most obvious one, and the one that is most likely to be broadly acceptable, is the notion that the rule in question is one of a general application rather than having application only to an identified individual or group of individuals. I suppose that, more than any other single characteristic, is what one would think of as distinguishing something of a legislative character from something which is of a non-legislative character. The best example and the one that has been used today is a notice of acquisition of land. 
If one is being strictly narrow and technical, one can say that we can still legislate- we could have an Act of Parliament for that matter- to create rights, obligations and duties with respect to particular designated individuals and not being applicable to the community at large. That is perfectly true. Nonetheless, as a practical matter, the notion of something being of a legislative character conveys the flavour of being something of general application and of wider significance than something quite narrow. For that reason, I do not think that the application in practice is likely to cause much difficulty. 
The final point I make is that I think  Senator Cavanagh  can be persuaded to appreciate, not least because he is a member of the Committee in question, that if there is any doubt whether a particular instrument does or does not come within the jurisdiction of the Committee and if there is some doubt whether the instrument in question which is subject to disallowance is one of a legislative character the Committee, given its past practice and performance, would have no hesitation whatsoever in resolving that doubt in favour of actually considering the matter and regarding it as being within its jurisdiction. The simple fact that the proposed new Standing Order is to be expressed in terms of confining the Committee's jurisdiction to instruments of legislative character should not, I think, as a practical matter be regarded as deterring the Committee from nonetheless considering and recommending upon instruments which may be in this fuzzy borderline area to which  Senator Cavanagh  referred. 
After all, the Committee has had a relatively long history of giving itself jurisdiction over a number of kinds of instruments which perhaps have not been strictly within the terms of the Standing Orders, not the least being instruments like rules of court and so on about which it is the particular object of this Standing Order to formalise our practice. For some years, I understand, the Committee has been dealing with instruments of various kinds which do not strictly satisfy the description of being regulations and ordinances. It has been doing so no doubt with the conscious assent of the Senate as a whole because it has been acknowledged that the Committee has been doing a good job in drawing to the attention of the Senate what needed to be adverted to in relation to those instruments. 
As  Senator Missen  said, the expression of the Standing Orders in these terms is not to be regarded as totally confining the jurisdiction of the Committee or at least not the jurisdiction obviously of the Senate as a whole to deal with any kind of instrument which is subject to disallowance. It may be a case where one has created, by the terms of this new Standing Order, room for a great deal of lawyers' argument. I appreciate  Senator Cavanagh  's fears in that respect, but it is argument which is unlikely to be of much relevance or practical significance. The jurisdiction of the Committee will not really in practice be governed by that kind of argument. I suggest, as I have been suggesting, that where the status of any particular instrument is in doubt the Committee as a practical matter is almost certain to regard itself as justified in going ahead and considering that matter and reporting on it to the Senate. If some very strict and narrow view did prevail and there were a tendency to launch into these kinds of lawyers' argument about what was and what was not within the jurisdiction of the Committee that would still not be of enormous practical significance because, as  Senator Missen  pointed out, it would still be the option or still be within the power of any individual senator to bring the matter forward to the chamber if the instrument were one capable of disallowance. That is the assumption on which we have proceeded in the discussion so far. For all those reasons I believe that the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee, adopting as it does the recommendation of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, ought to be supported.  Senator Cavanagh  's fears- although one can appreciate the points he is making about the necessary looseness of the language concerned- are not such as to lead the Senate to be reluctant to accept this recommendation. 
-The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has replied to this proposed amendment in the same general terms in which he replied to a similar amendment moved by the Opposition in respect of the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill. He does not appear to have appreciated the significance of the difference in language as between this amendment and that which was moved in respect to the other Bill. The substance of the latter was such as to exclude from the range of offences which could attract the operation of these new electronic surveillance warrant powers all that related to less than trafficable quantities of the whole group of narcotic substances, including not only cannabis but also heroin, opium and so on. The intention there was that the electronic surveillance power should be exercised only in relation to trafficable quantities, or greater, of drugs generally. 
I am disappointed that  Senator Puplick  is leaving the chamber. I was rather hoping that he would reply on the amendment that the Opposition is now moving, lt has been moved very much with the object of meeting the criticism that  Senator Puplick  and one or two other Government senators had made concerning the Opposition's proposed amendment to the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill. That criticism was that the distinction was drawn the wrong way, simply in terms of amount of trafficable quantities or above, when the distinction ought properly to be drawn between cannabis and other substances, at least in relation to small amounts thereof. We have accepted  Senator Puplick  's suggestion exactly. He is apparently so delighted to hear that that he has now resumed his seat. We will be equally delighted to hear how he responds to the Opposition's proposal which strictly embodies, as we understand it anyway, the suggestion which he made to the Senate in relation to the other Bill. We certainly hope that we will hear something from  Senator Puplick  regarding the amendment before us. I hope also that the Attorney-General will give his reaction to a distinction that is drawn on a different basis from the one to which I think he was replying. 
-We are debating the Customs Amendment Bill which is a very important piece of legislation. It is particularly important that the Senate give it its closest attention notwithstanding that it is a Bill which already has been the subject of a very considerable debate in the other place. It represents a major escalation in the response of the Government to a problem of criminal law enforcement. This Bill and its associated Bill, the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill which was recently debated, represent for the first time in our history the giving by the Government to a law enforcement agency- in this case the Narcotics Bureau- of powers of electronic surveillance. I refer to the tapping of telephones, the installation of listening devices, together with powers over the interception of mail and telegrams and other forms of telecommunications, in respect of breaches of the criminal law. I regret that it has been all too familiar a phenomenon on our statute books for those powers to be available with respect to national security matters. The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has long had powers with respect to the tapping of telephones although not, of course, with respect to the installation of other forms of listening devices. That anomaly- so regarded by the Government- has been corrected by legislation which has recently been before us. This is the first time in our history as a nation that we have legislation vesting powers in a law enforcement bureau of this extraordinarily sweeping and draconic kind. The most significant characteristic of this Bill before us is the way in which it vests these powers in relation to electronic surveillance in Customs officers in the subject matter of narcotics offences. 
The second thing the Bill does and demands our close scrutiny accordingly, is establish the extraordinarily savage new scales of penalties for the offences which exist under the Customs Act in relation to the importation of various narcotics and the possession of drugs so imported. In particular, this Bill creates a new category of offence relating to what are described as commercial quantities of various drugs. I will say more about the limitations of that concept, as it appears in this Bill, in a few moments. 
Thirdly, this Bill- and it is equally extraordinary, certainly equally unprecedented- creates a procedure, wholly new in our legal experience, for the civil recovery of pecuniary penalties; amounts which were expressed by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack),  in introducing this Bill, as likely to be equivalent to the benefits gained by a narcotics trafficker from his illicit dealings. I refer to the provision to recover- not by way of fine for a breach of the criminal law, but through civil proceedings- very large sums indeed of what are described as pecuniary penalties, and to the associated mechanisms, which allow for the freezing of a person's assets pending the outcome of any such civil proceeding. This is again a quite extraordinary and unprecedented measure. It may be one that is justified by the horrific nature of the trade that we are talking about, but the onus of defending that justification rests very much upon the Government, given the unprecedented character of the incursions upon what hitherto have been regarded as the rights of individuals. The threshold question that must be asked when we consider this legislation is this: Why are we dealing with it now? Why, given a significant series of events or situations which prevail elsewhere, has this legislation come before us now? 
The first such matter to which I refer is, of course, the existence of the Williams Royal Commission, which was established in 1977 but is still to report. There is no immediate sign of its reporting, but presumably we may expect something from it before too long. The Commission has taken a great deal of evidence on what the powers of the Federal Narcotics Bureau and of Customs officers with respect to drug offences ought to be. We do not know the views of the Commission on these matters. We ought to have had an opportunity to study the considered view of the Commission, its response to the various arguments, pro and con, that have been put, before being forced to leap into acceptance of this legislation which the Government, I would suggest prematurely, has put before us. 
I find it difficult to believe, as has been suggested by one or two ministerial spokesmen, that the Bill comes before us with the approval of the Williams Royal Commission, an approval which apparently has been communicated tacitly to the Government. I find it difficult to believe that any judge, even a Queensland judge, could adopt the wholehearted approval, the diverse range of quite extraordinarily far-reaching law enforcement measures that is included in this legislation. If indeed  Mr Justice  Williams and his Royal Commission are prepared to endorse these powers, these procedures, I for one would have wished to have seen a well-reasoned, argued case from that source in support thereof before having to debate legislation in the way that we are now obliged to, by the Government's having brought it forward. 
The other matter that affects the timing of this, or any other, legislation which seeks to confer additional powers on the Narcotics Bureau of the Commonwealth, a consideration that we must take into account, as I mentioned in the context of the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill, is the very large, black cloud which hovers over the Narcotics Bureau and its officers as a result of various matters that have come to light in recent months. I refer, of course, in the first instance to the most extraordinary allegations that were made by the now murdered Wilson couple about the penetration of the Narcotics Bureau by some person who made it his business to dispense to criminal interests information derived from the Bureau's intelligence activities. That is an allegation that we now know- having been told by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)-  was made well over 12 months ago but was not communicated by the head of that organisation,  Mr Harvey  Bates to his minister, or indeed it seems to anyone else- a situation which resulted in the Government's quite properly, when it found out about the allegation, appointing a multi-force investigation unit to find out what on earth was going on inside the Bureau. 
That, in turn, was followed by the extraordinary resignation of  Mr Bates  on the ground of not having been consulted about the event, and the even more extraordinary situation of his being grovelled to by the Minister,  Mr Fife,  and being reinstated as the head of that agency. We still do not know the facts that lay behind those events because we have not yet been told the result of the multi-force investigation. We can only assume, in the light of that sequence of events, that something very serious indeed about the operations of that agency had to be investigated. 
Reinforcing that impression of the Wilson allegation and the Bates resignation affair was the publication of the book entitled  The Brown Tapes,  edited by John Halpin, which is a quite extraordinary compilation of what are alleged to be- it has certainly not been denied by anyonetranscripts of exchanges between officers of the Federal Narcotics Bureau and various other criminal elements, exchanges which establish very clearly that there is, or has been, a great deal of corruption within that agency. 
We had, further, the publication within the last few days of the book by Bernard Delaney, a former senior officer of the Narcotics Bureau, reinforcing the substance of all of the allegations which have emerged in recent months about corruption within the Bureau. We might be able to treat all of that with equanimity, satisfied- if we could be- that measures are in hand to investigate the allegations and to correct any misbehaviour that might be occurring there, were it not for the fact that we are now asked to vest in this agency, whose activities have been under such an extraordinary cloud in recent months, absolutely unprecendentedly diverse and extensive powers of criminal investigation which will add enormously to its capacity, in the name of law enforcement, to intrude, snoop and pry on the activities of thousands, indeed millions, of ordinary Australians. 
How can we be sure that the Bureau can be trusted to exercise these powers with any kind of discretion, any kind of sensitivity, any kind of restraint, when we know what has emerged in the last few months about the kind of organisation that it is? So, again, to repeat with as much vigour as 1 can muster the point that I made in the context of the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill, it seems to me that the Government has acted insensitively and precipitantly in bringing the Bill forward while these matters remain unresolved. At the very least I would hope the Attorney-General would undertake not to have the Bill proclaimed until the situation about the activities of the personnel of the Bureau, and the character of that organisation, have been clarified. 
Moving beyond the threshold objection, what is to be said about the Bill as it stands and the difficulties and problems that we have with it? In the first place a number of things can be said about the new powers which are to be conferred upon Narcotics Bureau officers and Customs Bureau officers, in particular the power to employ electronic surveillance and the listening devices to which I have referred. Let me digress for a moment to make what I think is a very important point. It ought to be appreciated that the Narcotics Bureau has hardly been without power of a very considerable kind in the past by virtue of the luxury it has enjoyed of almost total freedom from judicial or other scrutiny in its exercise of search and seizure powers. Although the vesting in it of powers with respect to electronic surveillance does represent a quantum jump, as it were, in the range and nature of its law enforcement power, it certainly is true to say that in the past Customs officers in general and narcotics officers in particular have had very wide powers in the search and seizure area. That is as a result of their possession of general warrants or open warrants. That is provided for in sections 1 98 to 20 1 of the Customs Act. The warrants are of a kind which in effect empower their holders to go anywhere at any time of the day or night and break open or ransack any building or anything within it. 
The Customs warrants to which I refer are of two kinds. Firstly, there is the writ of assistance, which is obtainable only from a High Court or Supreme Court judge upon application by the Minister or Comptroller-General of Customs. Such writ remains in force so long as any person named in it remains an officer of Customs. So there we have the extraordinary phenomenon, so far as writs of assistance are concerned, of a lifetime voucher to search and seize without the necessity for any further judicial authorisation. In addition, there is the category of Customs warrants which are issued by the head of the Bureau of Customs or any State or Territory collector of customs for a period specified by the issuing officer. Either form of warrant- both the general writ of assistance and the particular Customs warrant for a lesser period- empowers the bearer of such a warrant at any time of the day or night to enter into and search any house, premises or place, to break open the same and to search any chests, trunks or packages in which goods may be or are supposed  to  be. In addition to those powers under the general warrants, it is to be noted that there also exists under the Customs Act a whole series of specific powers of search without warrant, particularly in what are known as behind the barrier customs situations. 
I have argued for a long time in many different places- I take the opportunity to do so againthat the present provisions, without even getting on to the electronic surveillance provisions which are the subject of this new amending legislation, are themselves manifestly too wide and potentially oppressive in their scope and that they should be re-drawn so as to provide proper controls and safeguards. Indeed, I have argued that they can be re-drawn in the way that was suggested by the Australian Law Reform Commission in its criminal investigation reference without in any way inhibiting the basic effectiveness of the officers concerned. I find it a matter of regret that the piece of legislation before us today, hasty as it is to expand the powers of Customs officers and narcotics agents in all sorts of ways which may or may not be defensible, makes no attempt to clean up what has long been a running sore in Australian jurisprudence- I would put it as high as that- and that is the existence of general warrants in the Customs legislation. 
I do not believe that we need general warrants, certainly of the kind that are provided for in the Customs legislation. I believe that by a combination of limited judicially authorised warrants, plus certain very specific powers of search without warrant and provisions for the obtaining of warrants in emergency situations by telephone or other means, Customs and narcotics officers can have all the powers they need to enable them effectively to enforce this legislation without the possession of powers which are in principle much too far reaching. I should have thought that the Government's bona fides in bringing forward the present amending legislation would have been improved if it had been willing to consider, in the course of bringing forward this legislation, what have been very long-standing criticisms and objections to other powers exercised by the officers in question. I can only hope that at least the Williams Royal Commission will say something on this subject and that at that time the Government will act in that area. 
The Australian law Reform Commission in its second report on criminal investigation. I am not sure whether the AttorneyGeneral has read it. He has had it drawn to his attention often enough. In the chapter on search, surveillance and entrapment- chapter 7, paragraphs 1 89 onwards- there is a very lengthy and sustained discussion of the different kinds of search warrants which are available under Federal law and which are pretty sweeping. In this instance, there was a quite unanimous condemnation of search warrants and a suggestion that the law be re-written so as to avoid the necessity for general warrants, and that the law should be re-written starting with section 10 of the Crimes Act but building a system of warrant-issuing around it which would resolve the problems of principle that have been long in issue. I would hope that the Attorney-General would take this occasion once again to remind himself of the terms of that report and to promise that at some stage in the future he will do something about it, even if he is not going to do it today. 
The point that I am making- it is essentially a point in passing about the general warrant powers- is that it seems that the Customs officers and the Narcotics Bureau have not been content with the very wide powers of search and seizure that they have and that they want new ones. Thus we have the electronics surveillance powers that are before us today. 
The Opposition recognises, as it has to, the utility of the powers with respect to telephone tapping, the installation of listening devices and the rest that are foreshadowed. There can be no doubt but that they do represent a sophisticated and modern form of law enforcement and one which ought not, without a great deal of thought, to be denied altogether to an agency such as the Narcotics Bureau, charged as it is with the investigation of what are very serious and dangerous offences. It is also acknowledged by the Opposition that there has been an anomaly in the law to the extent that in a number of States powers for the installation of listening devices are already vested in law enforcement authorities for the purposes of the criminal law and it has been possible and is possible in practice for narcotics officers to make use of those State powers in particular law enforcement situations. To vest these powers in the Bureau federally is, from that point of view, not a major sea-change. Acknowledging both of those points as we do, the Opposition does not go so far as to resist completely and absolutely the introduction of these new powers in legislative form and the vesting of them in the agency. What we do say, however- I cannot repeat the point too often- is that the exercise of these powers is very dangerous indeed because of the essentially exploratory, unselective, indiscriminate nature of the privacy intrusions that are necessarily involved in the use of electronic surveillance procedures of the kind that we are talking about. 
It is for that reason- because the scale of the eavesdropping, the intrusion on personal privacy, is exponentially greater once one starts using this kind of technology as distinct from old technology such as binoculars and listening under eaves- that one needs to hedge around the exercise of these powers with a great many safeguards. The safeguards are just lacking from the text of this legislation as it stands at the moment. That is what the Opposition 's objection is about. We regard it as bad that the powers in question are to be available across the full sweep of offences under section 235. That section picks up and incorporates in its terms different kinds of narcotics offences, ranging from the very trivial indeed, such as the possession of less than a gram of imported cannabis, to the very serious, such as the active importation of very large sums of heroin or opium. 
It might be accepted universally that the use of modern surveillance devices is always likely to be appropriate in the latter type of case; that is, those at the top end of the scale, the very serious offences involving large amounts of hard drugs. The Opposition finds it almost impossible to believe that anyone would acknowledge seriously the legitimacy of using these kinds of law enforcement powers at the bottom end of the scale; that is, with respect to drugs like cannabis or cannabis resin. It may be that the Attorney will, as he has said so often when confronted with this kind of criticism of his legislation, say that it will not be administered in that way. If he is that sure that it will not be administered in that way, why will he not accept amendments which put the possibility beyond doubt. It is only then that he can persuade the Opposition and the Australian people that he and the people who will succeed him in his job are serious about that commitment and that these powers will not be used in a thoroughly unacceptable way. 
There is a whole series of amendments which the Opposition will be moving to that effect, to reduce the scope of the Bill so as to confine these draconic powers to a narrower range of offences. The Opposition will be moving amendments, as we have in previous legislation in this apparently now endless chain of Bills, to ensure a better procedure in the actual issuing of the judicial warrants that are involved, to ensure that affidavits are sworn in support of applications for warrants and to ensure that warrants are not issued unless the judge is satisfied that other, less extreme measures have been tried and found wanting or found to be manifestly impracticable. The Opposition will be introducing amendments to try to limit the time for which warrants so issued can be executed. 
So much as to powers. The second major area of Opposition concern relates to the particular offences which are now created by this Bill and the new scales of penalties which are introduced in respect of these narcotics offences. The main new innovation is the establishment of an offence involving commercial quantities of narcotic substances, as compared with trafficable quantitiesthat concept was introduced into legislation in 1977- or lesser quantities for which there are lesser penalties. To do anything that constitutes an offence with respect to commercial quantities will now involve the possibility of imprisonment for life. This represents a major new step up in the whole scale of the penalties that have been adopted with respect to drug legislation. The scale of the penalties involved can be illustrated by taking just two examples, namely, heroin and cannabis, which are at either extreme of the dangerousness of the drug in question. Anything less than a trafficable quantity of heroin, if it is imported, will involve a person in committing offences punishable by a $2,000 fine or two years gaol. A trafficable quantity of heroin is defined as two grams or more. 
It may be noted in passing- this is a not unimportant point- that two grams represents no more than a person with what could be described as a heavy habit would inject himself with in the course of a single day. The amount of heroin consumed by an addict will vary, depending on the quality of the substance. I am told by those who know about these things that the heroin that circulates in Sydney is about twice as strong as that circulating in Canberra. That has implications for the quantity of the stuff that is likely to be ingested by an addict. The scale should be noted. Two grams counts as a trafficable quantity and, as such, exposes the possessor of such an amount of heroin to 25 years in gaol or a $ 100,000 finepenalties which were created in 1977. 
We then have the new category of commercial quantities, which broadly speaking represents for each day the trafficable quantity multiplied by 1,000. One and a half kilos of heroin will constitute a commercial quantity for which one can receive life in prison under the penalties provided for in this Bill. On the other hand, when one looks at cannabis, the trafficable quantity is 100 grams and the commercial quantity 100 kilograms. The trafficable quantity- 100 grams represents about three and a half ounces which, I am told by those who know about these things, represents about three times what a fairly regular user of cannabis would consume in the course of a week. In the case of a trafficable quantity, the possession of about three and a half weeks' supply of cannabis thus constitutes an offence which exposes one to 10 years in gaol or a fine of $4,000. 
I note that there is- and the Opposition applauds it- at least some recognition in this legislation of the difference between cannabis and other harder drugs. There is a difference in the penalty but the concepts of trafficable and commercial quantities remain the same, the commercial quantity of cannabis being 100 kilos. The possession or the importation of that amount will expose one to life imprisonment. 
A number of criticisms can be made about this penalty scale which I have very baldly summarised and in relation to which I have given a couple of examples. The basic criticism, which the Opposition will be pursuing in the Committee stage, goes to the essential crudity of the distinctions that are drawn- the criteria are set in volume or mass terms- between the various categories. This is the case, especially given the enormous variations and the scale of the sanctions which are attached to an offence in respect of these three categories, namely, commercial quantities, trafficable quantities and other lesser quantities. Because of the enormous scale of penalties for the larger categories of offences, it is particularly important that they reflect enormous variations in the moral iniquity of the particular crime that has been committed. It is an Opposition concern that there is a crudity about the way in which these lines are drawn- a crudity which can produce a great deal of injustice around the margins of the various amounts and the different categories involved. 
There are further problems that arise with cannabis. It is true that the Bill as it is drawn recognises the distinction between that and other drugs, at least so far as the scale of penalties is concerned. The Opposition says that it is a distinction which ought to be carried much further in this legislation, and it will be moving amendments in the Committee stage to make that clear. 
Perhaps the point about the crudity of the distinction can be made in another way. It is not only at the bottom but also at the top of the scales in question that these categories are crude. The aim of the new legislation which the Senate has before it seems clearly to provide for huge deterrent penalties for large-scale commercial traffickers of drugs, culminating in life imprisonment. It seems that the Government has taken the view that the previous maximum of  25  years- although for all practical purposes one would have thought that that was equivalent to a life sentence- is just not enough, and so this new policy has been embodied in the present legislation. I suppose there is always a difficulty which confronts any attempt to divide offences by reference to amounts of substances or the value of goods. I put the case of someone who is caught red-handed in the smuggling of  80  kilos or  90  kilos of cannabis. 
-Exactly. I am indebted to  Senator Baume  for that intervention. What is the difference in terms of moral enormity between the scale of operation involving  80  or  90  kilograms and the scale that is involved when a person adds another  10  kilograms and brings himself within the commercial quantity category? What is the difference in moral enormity between the possession of  1.5  kilograms of heroin, which is the commercial amount, and the possession of  1.4  kilograms or  1.3  kilograms? I well understand that as soon as we set any kind of dividing line we find problems of potential injustice at the margin. But I suggest quite sincerely that there is an inherent crudity about these categories which is not really such as to make this a defensible piece of legislation as it presently stands. 
At the other end of the scale the potential injustices that can be wreaked are much more obvious. It becomes clear, when one' scrutinises this legislation a little more closely, that quite extraordinary injustices are capable of being perpetrated by the literal application of some of these proposed new sections. The particular point I want to make in this respect goes to that part of the Bill which punishes with life imprisonment someone who has two convictions for the possession, let us say, of a trafficable amount of a particular narcotic substance. The first conviction for possession or importation of a trafficable amount will expose one to the penalties which apply-  25  years in the case of heroin and similar drugs and  10  years in the case of drugs such as cannabis- but two such convictions Will expose one potentially to life imprisonment. It is not just a matter of two convictions, because one notices that the text of the Bill in this respect does not refer just to convictions. If we look at proposed new section  235  (c) (ii) (B) we will see that if on the previous occasion it was simply a matter of the court's having found without recording a conviction, that the person had committed a particular offence involving a trafficable quantity, that will expose the person on the subsequent occasion to life imprisonment. We must remember that the scale of this trafficable quantity is  3V4  ounces of cannabis. Two years ago the trafficable amount of cannabis was just  25  grams, that is, one ounce. So a conviction or a finding that one had been in possession of one ounce of cannabis but had been let off with a bond two years ago when combined with a conviction for possession of  Vh  ounces of cannabis, after this Bill goes through, will expose one to life imprisonment. One can go to gaol for life for the possession, on two different occasions spread over three years, of a grand total of  4V4  ounces of cannabis. That is what this Bill is about. One can go to gaol for life for the possession, on two occasions spread over a couple of years, of a total of  4  grams of herointwo days' fix for an addict. That is what is involved in the literal text of these provisions. It seems to me and to the Opposition that something has gone haywire in the drafting of these penalty provisions. The possibility of reaching results like that shocks the conscience so much that the provisions ought not to be left on the statute book in that form of just leaving the matter to the discretion of the court. They ought to be corrected before this legislation actually takes effect. 
One of the proposals, among others, that we will be moving to try to rationalise these matters to some extent is to remove altogether that provision which says that two convictions or two findings of the elements of an offence being made out in relation to a trafficable amount will expose one to life imprisonment. We will be moving in the Committee stage for the deletion altogether of that proposed addition to section 23S. I hope that the Minister will have a long hard look at that before we get to the Committee stage so that he can give us a thought-through response on that issue. We will be moving also for the creation within the category of trafficable offences of a two-tier series of penalties. We will be proposing general trafficable quantities for which the penalties will be substantially less than those now set for trafficable quantities. We will propose to insert a further category of existing trafficable quantities multipled by five for which we will suggest that the present penalties set for trafficable quantities be retained. I appreciate that there is some complexity necessarily in advancing these sorts of propositions, but regrettably it is very important legislation in terms of social practice in our community. The legislation in this respect that this Parliament passes will mean an awful lot to an awful lot of people. I hope that we can think our way through these matters with some care and compassion. 
In passing I make one further point about the offence and penalty provisions in this Bill, and that is to draw the Government's attention- if it is not already aware of it- to an article by  Mr John  Willis in the  Australian Law Journal  for September 1978, volume 52, page 502, entitled: To What Extent is s. 235 of the Customs Act 1901-1975 (Cth) Invalid as Contravening s. 80 of the Constitution', It seems to me that  Mr Willis  has made a very interesting argument to the effect that to the extent that section 235 vests not in the jury but in the judge the power of determining to its satisfaction that particular factual conditions have been made out, this provision may well be in breach of section 80 of the Constitution which demands on its face that there be a jury trial for all aspects of the court determination of an indictable offence. 
The argument is that the language of section 235, which has not been amended in this respect by anything in the Bill presently before us, vests in the judge the power to determine whether the quantum of the drug in question is such as to bring it within the description of a trafficable quantity or a commercial quantity. The argument here is that one is talking not simply about things that go to the judge's discretion in determining penalties, but about things which are of the very essence of the offence itself. As such, there may well be a constitutional problem. It seems to me that that is the point which is interestingly made and which deserves a fairly careful response from the Attorney-General if we are to be satisfied about it. 
The final matter of real concern about this Bill, of course, is that part of it which is concerned with what are fetchingly described as pecuniary penalties. This is a remarkable euphemism that is employed in this Bill. It creates the concept really of criminal penalties without a crime having been committed, or at least without it having been proved. I must confess that this is something of a new phenomenon to emerge not just in this Bill but also in quite a bit of recent Commonwealth legislation, including not least the Trade Practices Act. The concept of pecuniary penalties is one, I think, about which we ought perhaps to be a little more cautious and sensitive than we, as a legislature, seem to be or to have been in recent years. Although I do not rule out altogether the appropriateness of these kinds of approaches to these kinds of problems, I think they deserve very close and sensitive scrutiny. 
In this Bill we have a provision for Federal Court civil proceedings to be taken to enable the recovery of what is in effect intended to be the illgotten gains of the drug trafficker so that through this means the Government can recover the value of the benefit derived by the trafficker. The point being made- I think that it is a fair point- is that the financial deterrent or disincentive, as a practical law enforcement measure in this area, is likely to be at least as important as most other forms of penalty or punishment that one can think of. Nonetheless, there are a series of difficulties to which I wish briefly to advert about the operation of this pecuniary clause. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
The particular objections which the Opposition has with respect to the pecuniary penalties provisions of the Bill are these: First qf all, it is apparent that under this new Division in the Bill a defendant can be ordered to pay a pecuniary penalty even if he has not been convicted of any drug offence or, indeed, even if he has not been charged with any criminal offence. It seems to us that that provision certainly justifies a degree of caution in the way in which one approaches this section of the proposed legislation. The second problem we have with the Bill relates to the burden of proof in these particular areas. It is apparent that proposed new section 243d reverses the burden of proof from that which normally would prevail. It requires that the defendant satisfy the court that the narcotics in his possession were not imported or were not imported in contravention of the Customs Act rather than this onus of proof rest on the Crown which will be pressing these particular proceedings. 
The third aspect of the pecuniary penalty provisions which causes difficulty relates to the standard of proof which shall apply in such proceedings. In the first draft of this legislation it was obvious that it was intended that the relevant standard that should be applicable was proof on the balance of probabilities. Indeed, proposed new section 243E of the original Bill as introduced into the House of Representatives was explicit in those terms, but that provision was omitted during the debate in the other place as a result of concern expressed by various members of that chamber as to the standard of proof being too light for a matter of this importance. 
In reality it is my view that the deletion of the explicit reference to a balance of probability standard has not advanced matters very much further. Indeed, it is really a little bit too clever by half in the sense that, in the absence of any explicit provision relating to standard of proof, since this pecuniary penalty proceeding is set up in the legislation as a civil proceeding it is apparent that any court trying such a matter would be inclined to apply a civil standard of proof, the balance of probabilities, rather than the criminal standard of beyond reasonable doubt. Whilst that might be appropriate in ordinary civil proceedings, we in the Opposition do not regard that lesser standard of proof as being appropriate in what are essentially quasi-criminal proceedings of a very serious and major kind, with the possibility of open-ended financial penalties having to be paid by an unsuccessful defendant. Accordingly, in the Committee stage we propose to move an amendment which will make it clear that where in such a proceeding there is in issue a question of fact as to whether a person has engaged in a particular narcotics dealing of a prohibited kind, the court in resolving such a matter of fact will have to do so by reference to the criminal standard of beyond reasonable doubt and that in any other matter which may arise, not going essentially to whether some criminal act has been committed, certainly the standard of proof can be balance of probabilities. It is on that basis that our proposed amendment will be drafted. 
The only remaining matter which I desire to mention in relation to this Bill in explaining my and the Opposition's objections to it relates to the absence of any serious provision relating to reporting to Parliament on how the Narcotics Bureau is performing generally, but more particularly on how it is exercising the sweeping new powers which will be conferred upon it by this legislation. I have indicated already in the course of the debate on the telecommunications legislation the attitude towards this issue of the New South Wales Privacy Committee which explicitly recommended that this new Customs narcotics legislation should be accompanied by compulsory disclosure requirements. These would not extend to disclosing the operational detail of the Bureau's activities, requiring names, dates, places and so on to be spelt out in relation to the exercise of warrants, but nonetheless would make it possible for Parliament, and through it the community, to be informed of the scale on which those particular powers were being exercised. 
As we have said repeatedly throughout this debate, the scale of phone taps and the installation of listening devices is something which worries us. The potential for abuse, the potential for very widespread invasions of personal liberty- in particular, personal privacy- is such that a whole series of safeguard mechanisms ought to be built into this legislation, not the least of which should be a requirement that the agency operate under a closer form of parliamentary scrutiny than it has operated under in the past. It is for that rather large collection of reasons that I strenuously oppose the Bill in its present form and foreshadow to the Government the amendments which the Opposition will move. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. I refer to the social security frauds case which is now proceeding in Sydney against 2 1 defendants and which is expected to continue well into next year, and in particular to the prosecution of that case by the Government counsel,  Mr David  Rofe, Q.C., and his litter of some seven juniors. Is it true that because of the enormous length and complexity of this case the Commonwealth has arranged for the transcript to be computer-processed and indexed, an exercise requiring the full-time services of one Commonwealth solicitor and terminals being installed in the private chambers of at least some of the prosecution team? Is it the Government's intention to deny to the defence counsel in this case access to this computerised transcript? Will the Attorney-General agree that denial to the defence of access to this crucial aid to the conduct of this case would be contrary to accepted principles of criminal law which require that so far as possible the Crown not enjoy any unfair or unequal advantage over the defence? 
-I rise to speak in support of the motion. It is very difficult to take seriously the legal concerns that have now been expressed by  Senator Carrick  in justification of his refusal to proceed with the tabling and incorporation of these papers- the suggestion that somehow  Mr Urbanchich  's legal position will be prejudiced as a result. How exactly  Mr Urbanchich  will be prejudiced by this course of action needs a great deal of further analysis than we have been treated to thus far either in the remarks of  Senator Carrick  today or indeed those of  Senator Missen  yesterday in first raising the question. The reality is that the tabling in this Senate, or the incorporation in Hansard, of material so presented cannot in any way prejudice rights of action of  Mr Urbanchich  or anyone else, which have already accrued. Let us get at least that preliminary point absolutely clear. 
Damages are not in issue. 
It may or may not influence damages. That is entirely a matter for the particular court to decide in the circumstances of a particular case- the defamation having been made out- what is the extent of the damage incurred by the plaintiff as a result of the material 's becoming public. I have no doubt at all that in this situation a court would take the view that the damage, such as it was, was unquestionably done at the time of the initial  Broadband  broadcast which encouraged not only the radio transmission to be heard by many Australians but also many newspapers to pick it up and the libel if such it was, the slander if such it was, to be spread about. 
The subsequent tabling in Parliament of further papers in the matter would not appear to me, certainly not as a matter of law nor I think as a matter of likely practical outcome when it came to the assessment of damages, to alter one whit the amount of damages to which  Mr Urbanchich  would otherwise be entitled. Certainly, the important point to appreciate, quite apart from the question of damages, is that  Mr Urbanchich  's ability actually to bring an action and recover, to make out his case, could not on any view be prejudiced. That remains the central issue if  Mr Urbanchich  is indeed anxious to take a legal form of redress for what has occurred. One of the interesting things about this case is that no writ has yet been issued. That is the preliminary point that has to be understood and I cannot imagine that there would be any serious dissent from that proposition. 
The further point that has to be acknowledged- if one is groping about for some conceivable legal prejudice that might be suffered by  Mr Urbanchich  as a result of this course of action being taken- is that it is true that if the motion is agreed to, if these documents are put in and become public in this way, they will of course be privileged; that any accurate repetition of them by any other media, or anyone else in the community, will equally enjoy that privilege and that  Mr Urbanchich  will not have a remedy in respect of any further defamatory imputation that may emerge from these documents that it is proposed to put it in, which defamatory imputation has not emerged already in the proceeding run of events. I acknowledge that. That is possible; it is perfectly true. This will be, to some extent at least it seems, new material. To the extent that it is new and has new defamatory stings about it,  Mr Urbanchich  will not have the right of action that he would have had if the material had been put into the public system by someone else. But that question can hardly be decisive on the issue of whether this Senate is to accept or reject the proposition that this material should be tabled. 
The question is as to whether this consideration should prevail against the very strongly arguable public interest that applies on the other hand; that is, that the documents in all of the circumstances as they have emerged should be tabled in order to enable the quality and quantity of the information available to the public on the matter to be much enhanced. That is the rationale that was advanced in the first instance by  Senator Carrick.  The question that we have to consider is whether that public interest aspect is sufficient to outweigh the possible very indirect prejudice that might apply if  Mr Urbanchich  were to lose some right of action that he might otherwise have had if this material were put into the system by someone else. 
I suggest to the Senate that in considering and in weighing up the matter- I do not skim over it or suggest that it is not a matter worth considering or weighing up- it surely ought to consider from a common sense point of view that which is the obvious reality. The obvious reality is that any defamatory damage that has been done to  Mr Urbanchich  has been done already by the  Broadband  broadcast and by what was published in the newspapers following that broadcast. As was said by  Senator Carrick  yesterday, if this material is defamatory and would be held by a court to be defamatory, then the defamation has been done. It is difficult, indeed almost impossible, to imagine that anything in the documents which are tabled- if they are tabled before us today- could be more damaging than the basic material which was put in issue on the  Broadband  broadcast. I think that one has to bear that consideration very strongly in mind. If one is considering and weighing up the matter by reference to fairness, justice or considerations of that kind, what we ought to be doing - 
Nobody is in a positioncertainly  Senator Carrick  is not,  Senator Wriedt  is not and I am not- to say whether these documents are, in fact, accurate. What does appear to be clear - 
That does not appear to be the attitude,  Senator, that  the Government is adopting with respect to this matter. The point has been taken- I would be delighted to hear some further elucidation from  Senator Carrick  about it- that the indirect possibility of prejudice, which I can only assume to be the kind of prejudice I have already mentioned, is sufficient in itself to justify these documents not being tabled. If it is a matter of weighing and balancing the further considerations that  Senator Martin  has adverted to- that is, the likely accuracy and so on of this material- that might be a legitimate reason for giving further consideration to the question of whether this material ought to go in. 
But that has problems too. That rather implies that we as a Senate or those who were determining whether the documents should be brought before us would be making some judicial type judgment as to the accuracy of them. I think that that probably would serve a greater degree of unfairness to  Mr Urbanchich  than would be the case if the documents simply went in as they are now in order that we and the community at large might be in some better position than we are at the moment to evaluate the status of the material that has already been put on the public record. 
After all, all that is being sought is that we be put in a better position by the tabling of the whole documents from which this material has been put on the public record, which has apparently been quoted. If there is any truth in  Mr Urbanchich  's denials or avoidance of the substance of the allegations that have been made about him, we, the Parliament, and the community as a whole will surely be in a much better position to evaluate the force of those denials, the force of this avoidance, with this material before us than we would without it. 
I go so far as to suggest that the tabling of this material, if there is anything to be said in  Mr Urbanchich  's favour, is likely to serve to  Mr Urbanchich  's advantage rather than the contrary. One of the awful realities about the operation of the defamation law as it prevails at the moment in this country is that it takes so long- it takes months and years- for these matters to go before the court, to get a proper airing and for all the evidence to be put in the open. This, I think, is the substance of the recent Australian Law Reform Commission's recommendations which suggested that there be a procedure for immediate redress. There is, in the absence of that procedure for redress, no other way in which all the material bearing upon this particular case can be put in the public forum and some opportunity for evaluation of it to be provided. 
For those reasons, although I acknowledge that there is a weighing and a balancing that has to go on here, I believe that the balancing is unquestionably in favour of allowing this material in. I see no legal reason, and certainly no moral reason, why it should not go in. The only reason I can think of as to why the Government, or  Senator Carrick  at least, has changed its or his mind about what to do about this is that he has considered the matter further overnight from a purely political perspective. He has decided that there is a prospect of alienating a particular right-wing section of the New South Wales branch or the national body of the Liberal Party, and he has made a political decision to keep the material out. Whether it is a moral decision or whether it is a legal decision, let us hear some arguments other than the derisory argument that we have had so far from  Senator Missen  yesterday and from  Senator Carrick  today. If there is a good argument we will listen to it; we will take it into account. But we are not going to be fobbed off with the kind of nonsense that we have heard so far. 
-There is a great deal more to be said about the WIN4 decision, a copy of which has just been tabled by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney).  One thing to be mentioned is the device which was accepted by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal in that case whereby  Mr Gordon's  interest was preserved as a practical matter pending his arrival back in Australia in two years' time, albeit that legally speaking control of the company meanwhile has now been able to be vested in someone else. However, because of the constraint of time that is now imposed upon me by Standing Orders, I do not propose to pursue the WIN4 matter further on this occasion, but rather to concentrate my attention specifically on the decision in the Channel 10 matter. I seek leave,  Mr Deputy President,  to have a copy of that decision incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

AUSTRALIAN BROADCASTING TRIBUNAL 
153 Walker Street North Sydney NSW 2060 P.O. Box 1 308 North Sydney 2060 Telex 'ABTEE' 20683 Telephone 922 2900 
NEWS LIMITED/TEN- 10 SYDNEY SHARE TRANSACTION INQUIRY 
DECISION 
In accordance with the provisions of Section 92F (4a) of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1 942, the Tribunal shall not refuse to grant approval of a transaction involving a change in the ownership of shares of a television licensee company unless the Tribunal 
is of the opinion that the transaction has resulted or would result in a contravention by the person concerned of Section 92; or 
considers it necessary to do so in order to maintain such ownership and control, whether direct or indirect, of the company holding the licence as, in the opinion of the Tribunal, best accord with the public interest. 
In a letter dated 1 8 May 1 979, from the Finance Director of News Limited, the Tribunal was advised that the company had taken over direct ownership from its subsidiaryTelevision Woolongong Transmissions Ltd- of 596,000 stock units in United Telecasters Sydney Limited, licensee of commercial television station TEN- 10 Sydney and that it had also purchased an additional 1,933,333 stock units in TEN- 10 from Email Limited (1,333,333) and CSR Investments Pty Ltd (600,000). 
The ownership of these three groups of stock units amounted to just over 2 1 per cent of the issued capital. 
Again, in a letter dated 31 May 1979, News Limited advised the Tribunal that its stock unit holding in the same licensee company had increased by a further 27. 1 6 per cent to 48.2 per cent with the recent purchase of another 3,259,300 stock units from Broadcast Investments Pty Ltd (1,448,050) and through open market trading (1 , 8 1 1 , 250 ). 
The company accordingly made application to the Tribunal for approval to purchase the 5,788,633 (48.2 per cent) of the 12,000,000 issued stock units in United Telecasters Sydney Limited. 
The Tribunal announced its intention to conduct a public inquiry into the transaction in press notices, which also invited the public to lodge written submissions concerning the proposal. 
Five parties lodged submissions, all of which were accepted by the Tribunal as being relevant to the inquiry. 
The public hearing of the inquiry was conducted in Sydney from 4-6 July and on 26 July 1979. News Limited appeared before the Tribunal as a party "directly concerned in the proceedings". 
At the hearing, the Tribunal considered four applications from groups or persons claiming recognition as "having an interest in the proceedings". The Tribunal recognised the Australian Labor Party represented by  Senator G.  Evans and The Peoples Commission as "approved parties";  Ms Julie  James Bailey, a private individual and her witness,  Mr S.  Keen, accepted the Tribunal 's invitation to appear as witnesses for the Tribunal. An application by the Australian Journalist's Association- NSW Branch to be recognised as an approved party, was denied. 
The first question which the Tribunal has had to examine is whether the transaction has resulted or would result in a contravention by the person concerned of Section 92. 
On this point, it was strenuously contended before the Tribunal that  Mr Keith  Rupert Murdoch was "not a resident of Australia" within the meaning of Section 92d, and that, consequently, as  Mr Murdoch  'controlled' News Ltd in the relevant statutory sense, that company could not validly own shares in a television licensee company. 
Although it was put to the Tribunal by counsel for News Ltd that, upon a proper construction of the Act, the question of  Mr Murdoch's  resident status did not strictly arise. The point was debated at such length that the Tribunal considers it desirable that it should state its own conclusion on the matter. 
The Act does not define what is intended by the term "resident of Australia" for the purposes of Section 92d, nor is this a term for which there is a generally recognised and precise legal meaning. The Tribunal accepts the view put to it by counsel that the term may mean different things in different statutory contexts. The task for the Tribunal has been to give it an appropriate meaning for the purposes of this section of the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
Looking at the matter broadly, the Tribunal is satisfied that the intent of the section is to prevent "overseas ownership" of television licensee companies. The question of whether there is a breach in any particular case can only be determined upon a close examination of the actual circumstances of that case. 
In this instance, the Tribunal was given a great deal of precise information about  Mr Murdoch's  personal, family and business life in this country and abroad. Without canvassing all of the details, which may be found in the transcript of the Inquiry, the Tribunal considers it sufficient to say that, having regard to all information placed before it, it has reached the firm conclusion that the statutory expression "a person (other than a company) who is not a resident of Australia " contained in Section 92 Dof the Broadcasting and Television Act does not describe  Mr Murdoch's  current position as the Tribunal understands it. 
Accordingly, the Tribunal is then directed by Section 92F(4A)(b) to consider whether the transaction in question should nevertheless be refused because the Tribunal considers it necessary to do so in order to maintain such ownership and control, whether direct or indirect, of the company holding the licence as, in the opinion of the Tribunal, best accord with the public interest. 
Before turning to the arguments which were put to it in connection with this sub-section, the Tribunal considers it desirable to point out that the Act appears to raise what is, in effect, a legal presumption in favour of the approval of such transactions. Section 92P (4a) does not authorise the Tribunal to make whatever decision in relation to a proposed transaction it would consider appropriate in the public interest. Rather, the section says that the Tribunal "shall not refuse to grant approval . . . unless the Tribunal  . . considers it necessary to do so, etc. " The onus of proof, therefore, would seem to rest squarely upon those who would contend in a particular case that approval should not be granted. And the requirements that the Tribunal must find it "necessary" to refuse approval, in the public interest as defined, means that the onus of proof is a heavy one. 
There is a further point which should be made at this stage. 
The Tribunal is directed by the section to consider 'such ownership and control ... of the company holding the licence as, in the opinion of the Tribunal, best accord with the public interest'.  Senator Evans  representing the Australian Labor Party argued that, in so doing, the Tribunal was required to make a judgment as to 'whether the existing ownership arrangements . . . better accord with the public interest than the proposed new arrangements'. But, as counsel for News Ltd pointed out, once a purchase of shares has taken place, it is no longer open to the Tribunal to compare, as it were, the 'ownership and control ' prior to the share purchase with that which would result were the transaction to be approved. As counsel put it: 'the Tribunal cannot order the shares to be returned to vendors or the money to be returned to the purchaser, and, by that means, restore an existing status quo; there is no power to do so'. In considering the public interest point, therefore, the Tribunal has to have regard to the fact that if the transaction in question is not approved the ultimate fate of the subject shareholdings is something about which the Tribunal can, at this stage, know nothing whatsoever. The Tribunal finds this state of affairs a matter of considerable concern, and would question whether it really accords with Parliament's broad intentions on the matter. 
Two major arguments were put to the Tribunal as warranting a refusal of approval on the public interest ground as defined in the quoted subsection of Section 92f (4a). 
It was contended, to put the point shortly and generally, that News Ltd's record in the ownership and control of various forms of the media should lead to the conclusion that the independence and objectivity of Channel TEN 's news and public information services would be adversely affected if the transaction were to be approved. 
It must be said, however, that little or no evidence to this effect was adduced. Although reference was made to a strike in 1 975 by Sydney newspaper journalists employed by News Ltd, evidence and submissions on the incident were not sufficiently developed to be of much use to the Tribunal. On the other hand, a great deal of evidence was adduced by News Ltd to disprove the assertion, none of which was successfully challenged. In these circumstances, the Tribunal could not properly allow such an argument to persuade it that it was 'necessary' to refuse approval to the transaction, and it rejects the argument accordingly. 
In so holding, the Tribunal is well aware that some public disquiet on the point is likely to remain. This comment is not intended to reflect in any way upon the honesty of News 
Ltd 's witnesses, but rather to indicate the Tribunal 's realisation of limits to what can be achieved in an Inquiry of this kind. It is hard for the Tribunal, if not impossible, to deal adequately in such an Inquiry with all the hopes and fears, often not articulated, of ordinary members of the public. The Tribunal would emphasise, however, and it notes the fact with approval, that firm and unequivocal assurances as to the independence and impartiality of Channel TEN's news and public affairs services were given at the Inquiry by senior News Ltd personnel and, indeed, by  Mr Murdoch  himself. In addition, quite specific assurances were given that News Ltd would adhere to the undertakings given by the current licensee of Channel TEN at the recent licence renewal hearings. 
Finally, it is necessary to examine the contention that this transaction should not be approved because (to quote  Senator Evans)  it would represent 'a wholly unhealthy aggregation of media ownership'. 
It should be noted, in considering this contention, that, at the present time, Channel Ten is the only station in the Sydney metropolitan area that is not controlled by a newspaper or publishing organisation. It is clear from the records of the former Australian Broadcasting Control Board of the public inquiry into the grant of the licence for Channel TEN that an important consideration in the initial grant of the licence to United Telecasters Sydney Ltd. was the fact that the licensee would not be controlled by any newspaper or publishing interest, and additionally would not be controlled by any other broadcasting or television interest. In the course of its application for the renewal of its licence in April of this year, United Telecasters Sydney Ltd. placed considerable emphasis on the range of its share holdings and, by inference, the benefits that would accrue to the community from its continued independent operation. If, however, the present transaction is approved, then the effective ownership and control of Channel TEN will pass into the hands of a company with extensive newspaper interests in Sydney and a range of media interests, print and electronic, throughout Australia and abroad. 
The Tribunal readily agrees that the general question of the aggregation or concentration of media ownership and control is a matter of great public interest and deserving of serious examination. In so far as it relates to broadcasting and television, the question could be an appropriate subject for a special public inquiry by the Tribunal under Section 1 8 of the Act. It would be open to the Minister to direct the Tribunal to hold such an inquiry and to make recommendations to him on the matter. But the Tribunal does not believe that it has the necessary statutory authority to decide the general question. In the Broadcasting and Television Act, Parliament has already indicated clearly enough that it regards the making of policy decisions in this area as a matter for itself; we refer to the very detailed provisions of the Act imposing restrictions upon the aggregation of interests in broadcasting and television stations, which confer considerable authority upon the Tribunal. But, if those provisions are to be supplemented by a further set of restrictions relating to the aggregation of media interests generally, then, in the Tribunal 's view, it is for Parliament to so determine. It is not for the Tribunal to pre-empt the role of Parliament. (The Tribunal is aware that there might be constitutional limitations on the powers of Parliament in this area, but such limitations would apply equally to the powers of the Tribunal itself. ) 
If the Tribunal lacks power to decide the general question at large, it is clear that it equally lacks power to decide it within the context of a particular case. Moreover, to decide the general question in this present case would be (or appear to be) to discriminate unfairly against one media owner whilst others in a comparable position go unscathed. That is a further and weighty argument for decision at the Parliamentary level. 
There has been a good deal of reference in this connection to earlier decisions of the Tribunal. The Tribunal sees no need to examine these decisions in any detail. Each was decided on its facts, and none of them was intended to establish any general principle on the issue of the aggregation of media ownership. By contrast, the present application has been presented and argued in such a way that the Tribunal is satisfied that it could not withhold approval to the transaction without appearing to endorse the general principle contended for by  Senator Evans  and others and thus to decide the major policy question. And this, for the reasons given above, it believes it cannot do. 
In any case, as was pointed out earlier in this decision, a refusal to approve the transaction would not result in an automatic restoration of the previous position of ownership and control. The Tribunal, at this stage, would have no basis for any assertion that the disapproval of this transaction would preserve the "independence" of Channel TEN or guarantee adherence to any general principle on the aggregation or concentration of media ownership. 
The Tribunal draws attention again to the point that Section 92F (4a) appears to raise a clear presumption of approving a transaction. 
The Tribunal's final conclusion, therefore, is that there is no sufficient basis in law or on the evidence or arguments submitted to warrant the withholding of approval to the transaction in question. 
Consequently, the decision of the Tribunal is that the applications made by News Ltd. for the purchase of 5,788,633 stock units representing 48.2 per cent of the issued capital of United Telecasters Sydney Ltd., licensee company of commercial television station TEN- 10 Sydney, should be approved pursuant to the provisions of Section 92 F of the Act. 10 August 1979 
BRUCE GYNGELL, Chairman 
JAMES OSWIN, Vice-chairman 
KEITH MOREMON, Member 

 Dr ROBIN SHARWOOD, Acting Member 
-To clarify the matter for the Minister, I state at the outset that the Opposition's fire in debating this matter is directed both at the Tribunal and at the role that the Government played in assisting it, to use a neutral word, in reaching its decision. Further, it is directed at the policy and legislative issues which the Government will certainly have to face if the Tribunal's decision in this matter is accepted at its face value. The point we make is that the Channel 10 decision was a shoddy and ill-argued one which reflects no credit on the Tribunal or the Government which, it is unashamedly admitted, has advised it on legal matters at least in reaching its decision. It drives a coach and horses through the present provisions of the legislation governing licence transfers. It makes nonsense of the series of earlier decisions by the Tribunal on public interest questions involving concentration issues and it represents a complete abdication by the Tribunal, for motives we can only guess at, of the responsibilities which it was established to carry out. 
The first matter in the Channel 10 decision to which I refer specifically is the threshold public  interest question as to whether the Tribunal was entitled, as a matter of law, to compare the former ownership arrangements of Channel 10 with the proposed new arrangements under News Ltd. It was put to the Tribunal that the language of section 92f(4a) (b) of the Broadcasting and Television Act clearly required the Tribunal to compare the original ownership structure arrangements with the proposed new ones and to determine whether the existing or original arrangements were better, in accord with the public interest, than the proposed arrangements. But the Tribunal, of course, found itself not able to make any such comparison, at least once the shares in issue had been purchased. The Tribunal accepted the submission of News Ltd, the purchasers of Channel 10, that since the Tribunal was unable actually to order the return of the shares in question to their original vendors and since it could not ultimately determine the fate of the shares if the Tribunal was unhappy with the new arrangements, it had no alternative but to refuse to have regard to whether the acquisition was in the public interest. This was a bizarre situation which at least the Tribunal had the decency to acknowledge it found to be a matter of considerable concern. The Tribunal queried whether the situation really accorded with Parliament's intentions in the matter. 
I have a number of points to make about this aspect of the decision. The first is that it is certainly strongly arguable that the Tribunal was quite wrong, as a matter of law, in refusing to make the comparison in question. Certainly my view- I put this simply not as a lawyer of either alpha or omega quality but as a marginally competent one- which view is shared by other lawyers of that description, is that the Tribunal was entitled, if it was satisfied that the new ownership arrangements were manifestly against the public interest, to refuse the endorsement of the transaction and to let subsequent events simply take their course. What happened is that the Tribunal allowed its bluff to be called by News Ltd in this respect. It succumbed to what can be described only as a crude piece of blackmail by News Ltd in announcing during the course of the hearing that what hitherto had been a conditional share purchase was in fact unconditional. The Tribunal squeaked a little protest about the gauntlet's having been thrown down by  Mr Murdoch,  but in reaching its decision it manifestly failed to do anything so courageous as to bend down and pick up the glove so laid on the ground. 
A further point I make is that even if the Tribunal's decision in this respect has some legal force, if there is some legal weight and validity to the point it made, what a nonsense situation has now been created. The result is that section 92f (4a), the only public interest criterion in the Act which is applicable to the approval of licence transfers of this kind, has been completely denuded of force and effect. I would suggest that it is not good enough for  Senator Chaney  simply to say: 'This is something the Government will have to consider. The Minister has not really turned his mind to it yet'. These are matters of urgent importance on which one had hoped the Government would take the opportunity of being put on notice about this debate today to articulate some response. It is a matter of acute regret to the Opposition certainly and, one would think, to the general community that it has failed to do so. 
Notwithstanding that the Tribunal thus decided at the threshold that there were no public interest matters to which it could properly refer, it then proceeded- this is consistent with the general logic of the Tribunal 's decision- to deal with the various public interest arguments that had been put to it. The first such argument that came in issue was about the bias or likely bias of the proposed purchaser of Channel 10- News Ltd. The argument was put in general terms that News Ltd 's record was such that impartiality or objectivity simply could not be guaranteed. 
That argument was put, I readily acknowledge, by me on behalf of the Australian Labor Party- an approved party to the proceedings. It was greeted with some of the most extraordinary passages in the decision. The Tribunal said, in short, that there was before it insufficient evidence on the bias question. In particular it went on to say that although reference was made to the events of 197S and the strike in which News Ltd employees were involved on grounds of their objection to the partiality of  Mr Murdoch  and his newspapers, the evidence and submissions on this issue were not developed sufficiently to be of very much use to the Tribunal. That is something which one cannot help but greet with astonishment given that in the course of the hearing, first of all, the Tribunal failed to allow in as a party the New South Wales branch of the Australian Journalists Association, which made it clear that the main nub and substance of its evidence was going to be that question of bias and in particular the events of 1 975. 
Again in the course of the hearing the Tribunal specifically stopped counsel for the Australian 
Labor Party- then  Mr Maguire-  from proceeding with cross-examination of the News Ltd executives on that question. Then in the course of the submission stage of the argument the Tribunal again stopped counsel for the Australian Labor Party- in this case me- from developing any argument based on the 1975 bias situation. So we have an astonishing kind of Alice in Wonderland situation prevailing in which the Tribunal stops any evidence or submissions going in about an issue and then justifies its decision principally on the basis that no evidence was put before it on which it could come to any conclusion on the issue. That is one reason that we say that it is a shoddy and ill-argued decision and a thoroughly disreputable document. 
The real question and the central issue in the whole matter was the aggregation, the concentration, of the media, in which the Tribunal's decision was in essence that it had no statutory authority to apply criteria of this kind, taking into account cross-ownership between newspaper and electronic media interests. The Tribunal acknowledged the importance of the issue but said that it was hamstrung by the absence of explicit statutory authority. 
There are a number of things to note about this aspect of the Tribunal's decision. The first is that if the Tribunal in this respect was acting in accordance with advice given to it by the Attorney-General 's Department, there had been a rather spectacular sea-change in the AttorneyGeneral's Department's opinion on this matter from the situation which prevailed just two years earlier when an opinion was delivered to the Tribunal from the Attorney-General's Department in a letter dated 4 August 1977. In that letter it was stated that questions as to the concentration of ownership of media interests, including newspaper interests, in the region in question were relevant considerations relating to the public interest. That is a paraphrase of paragraph 8 of that letter, which I now seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

ATTORNEY-GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT 
Tel: 6 1 9 1 1 1 Canberra, ACT 2600 
Please Quote A/77/372 Your Ref: 4 August 1977 
The  Chairman 
Australian Broadcasting Tribunal 
P.O.Box 1308 
North Sydney, NSW 2060 
Broadcasting and Television Act 1942, Section 90j Public Inquiry into Substantial Change in Ownership and Control of Licensee Companies 
I refer to your memorandum of 1 6 June 1 977 in which you seek advice on the application of section 90j (4) (b) of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 to a proposal by Telecasters North Queensland Ltd. (TNQ), licensee of commercial television station TNQ Townsville area, to purchase all of the 2,300 issued shares in Ayr Broadcasters Pty. Ltd. ('the licensee company') licensee of commercial broadcasting stations 4AY Ayr and 4GC Charters Towers. 
Under section 90j (4) the Minister shall not refuse approval to a transaction of this type unless there has been a report by the Tribunal on relevant matters and the Minister, after considering the report: 
is of the opinion that the transaction has resulted or would result in a contravention by the person concerned of section 90c; or 
considers it necessary to do so in order to maintain such ownership and control, whether direct or indirect, of the company holding the licence as, in his opinion, best accord with the public interest. ' 
You say that the proposal would not contravene section 90 C and thus, if the Minister were to refuse approval to the transaction, the refusal would have to be on the grounds of public interest. You refer to advice given by this Department on 26 June 1 967 concerning the meaning of 'public interest' in this context and ask whether there have been any developments which would allow the Tribunal to take into account, in this case, such matters as 'concentration of ownership of mass media interests generally (including newspaper interests), the extent of local (regional) ownership of stations etc' 
The advice of 26 June 1967 concerned a transaction whereby shares in commercial television stations were transferred to a company the sole shareholders of which were the wives of shareholders in the group of companies holding the prescribed interests in the stations. Moreover, the sole purpose of this divestment was to allow the group of companies holding the prescribed interests to acquire additional shares in other television stations. It was then said of section 92f (4) (b) (the parallel provision to section 90J (4) (b)): 
Paragraph (b) seems to me to be directed to the question of ensuring the retention of ownership and control of a station by interests of a particular class or kind. The question whether proposed transferees are persons having such a relationship to other holders of prescribed interests that there might be a breach of the provisions relating to maximum holdings is a matter to be considered under paragraph (a) of the sub-section, and paragraph (b) cannot, in my view, be used to reject an application simply because it is considered that there might have been a breach of the spirit, although not of the letter, of the provisions restricting the number of licences that may be held. Section 92F(4)(b) does not enable rejection of an application in every case where the Minister considers it to be in the public interest to do so. It confers only a very limited right to reject an application for the purposes I have indicated above.' 
There are significant differences between the proposal on which advice was given in 1967 and the present proposal. A consideration of the present proposal does involve a question whether the ownership of the licensee company 'by interests of a particular class or kind ', to use the expression in the 1967 advice, ought to be retained. 
All the shares in the licensee company are held by members of the Gleeson family, with  Mr F.  J. Gleeson holding 50.1% and the remainder being held by his wife,  Mrs Joyce  Gleeson and in various family trusts. TNQ, on the other hand, is a large public company with widespread shareholdings, including in the licensee company (12.4%) and in North Queensland Newspaper Co. Ltd. (9.9%). Also I understand from the background paper attached to your memorandum that the Minister has given his approval for North Queensland Newspaper Co. Ltd. to acquire up to 1 7.4% of the capital in TNQ 
The effect of the proposed transaction, as noted in your background paper, would be to diversify shareholdings in the licensee company but at the same time to vest prescribed interests in the 4AY and 4GC licences in TNQ and North Queensland Newspaper Co Ltd. (see sections 90 (2 ) and 90b ( I ) ). lt is against this background that the question of the public interest' for the purposes of section 90j must be considered. 
The phrase 'public interest' may be taken as referring to the interest of the community generally  (R. v. Mining Warden at Maryborough and Qld. Titanium Mines Ltd.  ( 1975) Q.L.R. 235 at p.248 per Kelly J.), but its precise meaning depends on its context. Similarly, the application of a 'public interest' test needs to be considered against the background of all the facts that are relevant to any particular proposal to which it might apply. I, therefore, do not think it is possible to identify in the abstract all precise issues that might be relevant to a consideration of the public interest in all cases arising under section 90J. 
However, in my view, the concentration of ownership of media interests, including newspaper interests, in the region, and the extent of local ownership of stations, would be relevant considerations to the question whether the existing ownership of the licensee company ought to be maintained in the present case. 
Any effect on the quality of the service provided to the public would be another matter that would be relevant to a consideration by the Minister of the public interest under section 90j. By way of example, I note that the licence granted in respect of 4GC Charters Towers requires that an office and studio presence be maintained in Charters Towers and that locally originated material be transmitted at least to the extent of 20 hours weekly. While these licence conditions would remain unaffected by any change in the ownership of the licensee company, the capacity of the prospective owners to meet these conditions would be a relevant consideration. 
I have sent a copy of this memorandum to the Postal and Telecommunications Department. 
KELLY for Acting Secretary 
Not only is this advice different from the previous advice that had been given to the Tribunal but also it is in quite explicit contradiction of previously articulated positions of the Tribunal in earlier decisions. I refer specifically to the Townsville inquiry of July 1977 and the Ballarat inquiry of August 1977 in which the Tribunal clearly articulated the question of concentration or aggregation of the media on a cross-ownership basis as a relevant criterion for determining a public interest issue. It was not referring there simply to a concentration of electronic media. It was referring to newspaper interests as well. The Tribunal sought to distinguish those earlier decisions as being based on different factual situations, but what was in issue was the articulation of criteria. No matter how hard the Tribunal twists and turns it is in the position of having to admit that this decision represents a complete change of heart on its part. 
Other legal grounds are articulated by the Tribunal as a basis for its decision in this respect, grounds which are very wobbly indeed. Again, time does not permit me to give the Senate any kind of analysis, whether it wants it or not, of the legal issues that are involved. Let me simply say that I do not believe that the language of the section as presently drafted inhibits the Tribunal from looking at aggregation or concentration issues when considering the public interest point, and certainly I do not believe that there is any constitutional inhibition upon it in taking into account cross-ownership questions in determining issues relating to ownership of the electronic media. Another matter in the decision which arouses one's legitimate indignation is the elaborate attention paid to  Mr Murdoch's  claim that he would be treated unfairly or in a discriminatory fashion, as compared with other media proprietors, if he were to be denied the opportunity to expand his electronic media interests in order to keep afloat a fast-sinking newspaper empire. That might touch our heart strings as a general policy matter, but manifestly it is a legally irrelevant consideration and ought not in our view to have been given any weight at all by the Tribunal. 
The residence matter, which I wish to mention briefly, is another on which the Tribunal's decision leaves much to be desired. I do not seek to canvass in any way the very lengthy arguments and material that were put in issue about  Mr Murdoch's  residence and the effect of that upon him. What I do emphasise is the utter futility of the Tribunal's not, in its decision, giving any reasons for the conclusion that it reached on this point but simply stating that it had reached the view that the Act did not apply. It might as well have not opened its mouth for all the assistance that that particular excursion in its decision has given us for future cases. 
It might be said, finally, that, if there are all of these legal problems with the Tribunal's decision, why is not the matter being appealed, by the Australian Labor Party or someone else, to the courts? The reality is that to do so is an inordinately expensive business. The media interests involved have financial backing which is tantamount to using elephant guns as compared with everyone else in the community, who are confined to using pea shooters when forced to fire at them on these matters. The reality is that one- certainly not the Australian Labor Partyjust cannot afford to take the kinds of financial risks that are involved. That makes it all the more important that the Tribunal should reach in the first place decisions which are credible, and impeccably reasoned, not the kind of mishmash which creates all of the problems that we have been debating here today. 
-Senator Missen refers to this situation as constituting a surprising breakdown of the Government's undertaking. That is something of an understatement. I would regard it as one of the most deplorable demonstrations of default that we have seen so far in the life of this Government and this Parliament. There have been many competitors for that honour, but this particular paper which has been put before us today demonstrates a state of affairs which takes the cake. Let me remind the Senate of the undertaking that was given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 25 May 1978 and was repeated the next day in this chamber by the then Leader of the Government in the Senate. It was in the following terms:   . . within six months of the tabling of a committee report, the responsible Minister will make a statement in the Parliament outlining the action the Government proposes to take in relation to the report. If the six month period expires during a parliamentary recess, the ministerial statement will be made at the earliest opportunity at the next parliamentary sittings. 
This document which has been tabled today, as was said, lists something over 22 reports in respect to which no such statement has been forthcoming although we are more than six months down the tracks since they were tabled. In the statement that has been tabled today, we have one of the most deplorable pieces of promise-breaking that I think we have experienced in the life of this Parliament. I am not quite sure whether the extent of the default has yet been appreciated even in the light of what  Senator Missen  and  Senator Cavanagh  have said. Let me demonstrate it to the Senate by putting the matter in another way. Let us consider the record of the reports of the legislative and general purpose standing committees of this chamber, the eight major committees which are supposed to be the Senate's pride and joy and which are supposed to justify more than anything else our existence as legislators in this place. 
My brief calculation from the notice paper done during the last minutes of Question Time reveals that 21 reports have been tabled more than six months ago during the life of this Parliament. In other words, there are 2 1 reports which should have been the subject of a ministerial statement by now. There are a number of other reports which have been tabled within the last six months and for which a statement is not yet due. I do not take these into account. I take into account the 2 1 reports, some of them going back to a table in May 1978, which are eligible for a statement. What is the record in respect of those 2 1 reports? The paper in front of us shows that 1 6 out of those 2 1 reports have not been the subject of a ministerial statement. It is not just a matter of an isolated default for understandable reasons. A systematic pattern has emerged, and is demonstrated in this paper, of this Senate and this Parliament being treated with complete contempt by the Executive. 
Let me go through the various committees. First, five reports of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs have been tabled, nearly all of them important reports. Only one of them has been the subject of report or response by a Minister to this Parliament. That was the least significant of the Senate reports. It was a report simply on annual departmental reports. The other substantive ones- to at least one of which 

 Senator Cavanagh has referred; have not been the subject of any response at all. Secondly, the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts has one major report eligible for a ministerial response. No response is forthcoming. That is a very important report on the Impact of Television on Development and Learning Behaviour of Children. Thirdly, six reports of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations are eligible for ministerial response as they were put down more than six months ago. Only one of them, a relatively minor report on the Australian Housing Corporation, has been the subject of a ministerial response. Five others, several of them very important ones, were not the subject of any response at all. 
Two of those, as  Senator Cavanagh  has said, are nearly 18 months old. Regarding the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, there were two very important reports on Australia and the South Pacific and Australian representation overseas, one of them going back to February 1978, neither of which has been the subject of a ministerial statement. The Committee on National Resources has the best track record. One report was put down and one response was made on the matter of water resources. The Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment has put down two reports, neither of which has resulted in a ministerial response in the relevant period. The Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare has put down three reports, and none of them has produced a ministerial response. The Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce has put down one report, in respect of which no response has been forthcoming. That is the record; it is a very sorry record, indeed. I have referred only to the major committee reports; I have left out domestic committees such as the Publications Committee and I have left out references to the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, which might be thought to be a special case. 
I acknowledge the force of what  Senator Missen  says. A number of matters which have not been the subject of any governmental response in that area have been brought forward by that Committee. I have confined myself simply to those committees which are supposed to be the jewels in this Senate 's crown and, indeed, jewels in the nation's parliamentary crown. The record that is demonstrated by this paper is one that fills me with disgust. It is one that ought to fill similarly with disgust those people left in Australia who seriously take the Senate as an institution. It makes nonsense of the continuing work of these committees. Here we are, slaving away; and I suppose some honourable senators are still a little naive about the value of the work we are doing and actually think that to produce a major report on matters of intense social concern might contribute something to the life of this nation. 
For example, the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs recently tabled a report on reforming the law and the procedures which should govern the implementation of reports of the Australian Law Reform Commission. One of the central features that the Committee recommended in the scheme set out in that report relied heavily on what the Committee understood to be the convention that ministerial responses would be made within six months. A central feature of the report on reforming the law was built upon the assumption of the performance by this Government and by its Ministers of their obligation, so precisely stated by the Prime Minister in May last year. It is a disgraceful and disreputable record and it is one about which the Government ought to feel no pride whatsoever. I suggest that this whole matter is one which ought to be the subject of a full and early debate in this chamber. 
-The difficulty about the statement of the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  that it is not necessary to reassert the supremacy of the Parliament over the Executive is that, as we all know, in practice the Parliament has a chance of getting regular information from the Executive in such matters as this only when there is upon the Executive a statutory obligation to provide it- if Parliament asserts what it wants in that particular way. If we have to wait, either in the Parliament or out of it, upon the pleasure of the Executive to report to us on these matters, we will have to wait an awfully long time, as indeed was demonstrated in a debate in the Senate earlier today. 
As the Attorney-General has said, there are obvious limits to the detail that can be required in this area. The Opposition, in an amendment that it moved to an earlier, associated piece of legislation, perhaps did not pay sufficient regard to that fact. I refer to the amendment, moved in very general terms, to one of the telecommunications Bills, to the effect that information should be supplied to the Parliament as to the general operation of the clauses in question. That was perhaps rightly criticised by the AttorneyGeneral as making insufficient statutory allowance for the necessary qualifications and exceptions. Accordingly, the Opposition has drafted an amendment which lists a very large number of qualifications and exceptions. Once again, we took seriously the response that had been made by the Attorney-General. Now he tells us that we have gone too far; that in fact there is a derisory universalism about these particular exceptions and qualifications because, if the Executive followed them literally, it would not need to give to the Parliament any information at all. 
Might I say that that would be so only if the Executive demonstrated to the Parliament an attitude which, I might suggest, would be incompatible with my, and I hope the Minister's, understanding of the Westminster system. If the amendment were carried in such terms there would be plenty of room for the Executive to give to the Parliament very informative reports indeed which, nonetheless, would not prejudice the operations of law enforcement in this field in the way in which the Attorney-General, quite rightly, suggests that they ought not to do. Finally, if the Attorney-General believes that the proposed clause is badly drafted because it approaches the matter in the wrong way in saying that Parliament is to have everything except the matters specifically excepted, what would be his reaction to an amendment drawn in yet another way, one which has been the subject of some discussion in this place. I refer to an amendment drawn in the terms suggested to his Government by the New South Wales Privacy Committee, which made a specific recommendation that the statute incorporate an obligation to report on particular identified matters and on those matters only. I remind the Minister that these matters considered appropriate for report were the number of warrants issued, requested and refused; the number of conversations listened into by each type of device; and each of those figures broken down wherever possible by State. There may be other specific matters that could usefully be added, but I ask if the Attorney-General is unsatisfied- as he indicated in his earlier remarks- with the language of the Opposition's proposed amendment, whether he would be prepared to accept one which casts the obligation the other way around, in limited, positive terms of the kind that I have described? 
-Up until now there has been perhaps a certain ritual, indeed an almost liturgical quality to this debate. The truth of the matter is that many of the issues that we have canvassed so far have been canvassed in various forms in other recent debates on associated Bills. However, coming now to the series of Opposition amendments, of which I will move the first, No. 12, we are in an area which is unique to this particular piece of legislation and is really quite disturbing. The amendment No. 12, which I will move, seeks to leave outthe proposed sub-paragraph 235 (2) (c) (ii). This is the sub-paragraph which provides for life imprisonment for two successive convictions; indeed- as I will explain in a moment- not even convictions for the possession of trafficable amounts of drugs. The way the section can operate is that a person can go to gaol for life for possessing only enough heroin for a two-day fix, if he happened to be a heavy heroin addict, or a person can go to gaol for life for having possessed enough cannabis to keep him going as an individual for just three and a half weeks. They are hardly, one would have thought, heinous offences on any scale of legal or moral values. This result follows from the way the section in issue is drafted. Let me read section 235 (2) (c) (ii) into the record: 
. where the Court is satisfied- 
that the narcotic goods in relation to which the offence was committed consist of a quantity of a narcotic substance that is not less than the traffickable quantity applicable to that substance and also that, on a previous occasion, a court has(A) convicted the person of another offence . . . against a provision referred to . . . 
The provision appears in an earlier article and deals with conviction on possession of a quantity of narcotic substance of a trafficable quantity or more. Perhaps 1 should read the section. It continues: 
. or 
found, without recording a conviction, that the person had committed another such offenceimprisonment for life or for such period as the Court thinks appropriate . . . 
What the section is designed to do is to impose not only the kind of penalties which are here provided in this legislation for the possession or other dealing with commercial quantities, socalled, of narcotic substances, but also to apply a specific deterrent or sanction against the possession or other criminal dealing with much less than commercial quantities of drugs. This really reaches quite absurd heights or depths when one considers the amounts of various drugs which can constitute trafficable quantities. Under the 1 977 amendments to the Customs Act, which are retained in the present legislation, a trafficable quantity of heroin is 2 grams. On conviction now of the possession of 2 grams, which is just one day's dose or fix for a heavy addict, combined with a conviction on an earlier occasion or, failing a conviction, even just a finding of guilt unaccompanied by the formal recording of a conviction, those two findings by a court can now result under this legislation in a person going to gaol not just for two, 10 or 20 years, but for life. That is what the provision says. 
Similarly, in respect of cannabis, the trafficable quantity of cannabis provided for in 1977 and not amended by this legislation is just 100 grams or3 oz of cannabis. Before 1977 the trafficable quantity of cannabis was just 25 grams or 1 oz. We are talking here about very small amounts indeed; not amounts of the kind that one would expect cold-blooded commercial dealers to have but simply the kinds of amounts that ordinary drug users without commercial motivation or involvement do tend to have in or about their possession. The reality for cannabis is that two convictions, one of which might be less than a conviction, for possessing the grand amount of 7oz of the drug can send a person to gaol for life. If one of those convictions or findings of guilt was dated before 1977, then the possession over that period on two occasions of a grand total of4 oz of cannabis can send a person to gaol for life. 
The Opposition suggests that this provision ought to come out of the Bill entirely. This is one occasion when we will need a darned good explanation from the Attorney-General  (Senator 
Durack) to be satisfied that our opposition here is astray, ill-founded or whatever. The reality surely is that the trafficable quantity penalties themselves provided for in this legislation are already extraordinarily high. Surely one would have thought that they were high enough, providing as they do for the possession of heroin or other hard drugs, up to 25 years in gaol or fines of $100,000 or, in the case of cannabis, 10 years gaol or a fine of $4,000. It would seem wildly inappropriate, given the really enormous scale of the available penalties to be adding extra penalties of life imprisonment such as are provided for in this section. It is no answer to say, as no doubt the Attorney will, that the courts just will not use these penalties in this way, that they will use their discretion to impose lesser penalties. If legislation is not to be brought into disrepute in the community at large and particularly in that section of the community which is concerned with drug legislation, we must have penalties which are meaningful and which bear some rational relationship to the scale of the offence. It is what I would describe as this lunatic inability to distinguish between what is genuinely socially harmful behaviour of a very serious kind and that which is not which has brought so much of the law relating to drugs into disrepute. This particular provision in this Bill, far from contributing in any way to a rational solution to the very vexed problem of drug abuse in the community, only goes an extra step towards drawing it into still further disrepute. Accordingly, I move: 
Pages 1 1 and 12, clause 12, paragraph (a), proposed subparagraph 235 (2) (c) (ii), leave out the proposed sub-paragraph. 
-by leave- I move: 
Page 12, clause 12, paragraph (a), proposed paragraph 235 (2) (d) line 15, after 'substance '.insert 'multiplied by 5'. 
Page 12, clause 12, after proposed paragraph (d), insert the following new paragraph: (da) where the Court is satisfied that the narcotic goods in relation to which the offence was committed consist of a quantity of a narcotic substance that is not less than the trafficable quantity applicable to the substance but is less than the trafficable quantity applicable to the substance multiplied by 5- 
if the narcotic substance is a narcotic substance other than cannabis or cannabis resin- a fine not exceeding $40,000 or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 10 years, or both; or 
if the narcotic substance is cannabis or cannabis resin- a fine not exceeding $2,000 or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 4 years, or both; or'. 
The effect of these amendments is to create a new tier within the category of trafficable quantities of the drugs in question. As has emerged from earlier stages of this debate, at the moment it is apparent that the quantity of a drug which will satisfy the description of being trafficable under this legislation varies enormously. In the case of heroin, it is from two grams right up to 1.5 kilograms. That is the threshold for the top category of commercial quantities of the drug. Similarly, for cannabis, the range encompassed within the description of trafficable quantities is all the way from 100 grams of cannabis through to 100 kilos of cannabis, that being the commercial quantity. 
We accept the point made by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  that it is very difficult in this kind of legislation to have detailed scales of penalties which endeavour to grade the heinousness of the offences all the way up by reference to particular varying amounts. But we believe that some attempt ought to be made nonetheless to alleviate the full harshness of the penalties in this Bill in respect of relatively small quantities within the trafficable range. Accordingly, what these amendments to clause 12 of the Bill seek to do is to add a new category of trafficable amounts being the existing minimum trafficable quantity multiplied by five and to create a new lesser range of penalties in relation to that low group or that lower category of trafficable amounts. 
For example, under the Opposition 's scheme, the possession of between 2 and 10 grams of heroin would attract a lesser penalty than the present penalty of 25 years in gaol or a $ 100,000 fine. It would attract a penalty of 10 years in gaol or up to a $40,000 fine. Similarly, the possession of the lesser amount of cannabis- between 100 grams and 500 grams- would incur not the existing full trafficable offence penalty of 10 years in gaol or a $4,000 fine, but the proposed lesser penalty of four years in gaol or a $2,000 fine. The object of the exercise is to modify the obvious harshness of the potential operation of this penalty scale as it applies at the moment. 
The Opposition acknowledges that there will be inevitably some crudeness at the margins, whatever new scales of penalties one seeks to incorporate in this area. All we can say is that the new scales are a darn sight less crude than the enormously wide bands of categories of penalty that exist under the present legislation. This is an improvement which ought to be acceptable enough in principle to the Government, given what it has been saying about these things. We hope, accordingly, although not with much faith, that the amendments will be accepted. 
-by leave- I move: 
Page 12, clause 12, paragraph (a), proposed subparagraph 235(2) (d) (i), line 18, after 'cannabis', insert "or cannabis resin '. 
Page 12, clause 12, paragraph (a), proposed subparagraph 235(2) (d) (ii), line 21, after 'cannabis' insert 'or cannabis resin'. 
The effect of these amendments is to clear up what surely must be an anomaly in the drafting of clause 12 of the Bill and in particular the penalty provision in relation to trafficable quantities contained therein. As the clause is drafted at the moment, it draws quite sensibly a distinction between cannabis and other drugs, providing a substantially lesser maximum penalty for cannabis than it does for the other drugs that are set out in the schedule. The point that the Opposition makes is simply this: We believe that the logic of that distinction is quite impeccable. Indeed, it is a distinction which has been accepted and articulated on numerous occasions by  Senator Pulpick,  whom I am delighted to see back in this chamber to vote on this issue. We urge that the logic of that distincion simply be extended to cannabis resin as well as the basic substance, cannabis itself. Throughout the other sections of the Customs legislation cannabis resin is treated essentially in the same way as cannabis. The amounts in each category- trafficable, commercial and so on- are obviously less for resin than for cannabis itself because of the differing nature of the form of the substance and the different density of its potent qualities. That is already built into the schedule. Why on earth is cannabis resin for this purpose- that is, for the difference in penalties provided for trafficable quantities- not treated in the same way as cannabis? We believe that it ought to be. These amendments are designed simply to produce that result. 
I move: 
Page 1 7, clause 13, lines 28 to 37. leave out proposed new section 243d. 
This amendment goes to that part of clause  13  which would insert a new section  243D  into the Customs Act, and the Opposition's amendment seeks to delete proposed new section  243D.  We are dealing now with the new Division relating to pecuniary penalties proposed to be inserted into the Act. That is a euphemistic expression which is employed in the Act to refer to the outcome of civil, not criminal, proceedings which may be brought against suspected drug dealers and possessors and which can result in the imposition of open-ended penalties in the nature of fines, although they are not so described, and which also attract subsidiary procedures, including an entitlement in the Government, if such a proceeding is pursued successfully, to freeze the assets of a suspected drug offender. Proposed new section  243D  relates quite accurately, as the marginal note has it, to the creation of a presumption of illegality of importation of narcotic substances. 
The clause we are seeking to delete  is  cast in terms which throw the onus of establishing the innocence of the person in relation to such narcotic substances, so far as their importation in contravention of the Act is concerned, squarely on the defendant. All that the prosecution has to do is claim that the goods in question are reasonably suspected of having been imported into Australia in contravention of the Act. Once such a claim has been made, the onus then shifts, by virtue of this clause, to the defendant to satisfy the court that the goods in question have not been imported in contravention of the Act. The Opposition takes the view, and always has, that any clause in any legislation anywhere which reverses onuses of proof is highly suspect and should be treated with a great deal of circumspection by this legislature, particularly in the context of criminal proceedings. We are not technically in the realm of criminal proceedings here, but they are proceedings which must on any realistic analysis be described as quasicriminal. Certainly the amounts of the penalties in issue can be very large indeed. Opprobrium would attach to any person who was on the receiving end of a successful proceedng by the Crown in this matter and he would for all practical purposes be regarded as having committed a criminal offence. Indeed, it is a criminal issue with which we are now dealing, namely, the question of whether the drugs the subject of this proceeding have been criminally imported. 
In these circumstances, we treat the reversal of the onus as being a very serious matter. We do not see that this is one of those perhaps handful of cases where some argument in principle can be made that the reversal of the onus, the reversal of the burden of proof, is in fact on any view justified. Accordingly, we move for the deletion of this provision, which would have the result not of undermining or emasculating the whole effect of the pecuniary penalty division that it is proposed to insert in the Act but would simply make it incumbent upon the Crown in bringing such proceedings to establish all the necessary ingredients of the proceeding rather than, as here, putting the onus upon the defendant. 
-I move: 
Page 17, clause 13, after proposed new section 243D, insert the following new section: 243DA. In a proceeding under this division, the degree to which the Court must be satisfied in respect of a matter shall be- 
if the matter involves a question of fact as to whether a person has engaged in a particular prescribed narcotics dealing or has engaged in prescribed narcotics dealings during a particular period- satisfaction of the Court on the matter beyond reasonable doubt; or 
any matter other than a matter involving a question specified in paragraph (a)- satisfaction of the Court on the matter on the balance of possibilities. '. 
As the Attorney-General foreshadowed a moment ago this amendment relates to another evidentiary aspect of the pecuniary penalties division of this Act. It relates not to the burden of proof but to the particular standard of proof which is required to be satisfied from various elements for this proceeding to be made out. The 
Opposition amendment is to insert in the legislation a two-part provision which says, in effect, that if the matter in issue involves a question as to whether criminal behaviour has occurred, namely, whether a person has engaged in a particular prescribed narcotics dealing, then the satisfaction of the court on this matter has to be pursuant to the criminal standard of proof beyond reasonable doubt. It is only in respect of any matter other than such a threshold question of criminality that the second part of the provision applies, and that is that the standard of proof there should be the ordinary civil one of proof on the balance of probabilities. 
The Opposition takes the view that where an ingredient or an element of the proceeding is a matter involving the satisfaction of the court as to the commission of a criminal offence, that court should apply a criminal standard in determining whether it is satisfied. The AttorneyGeneral really cannot have it both ways. He said a moment ago in relation to the Opposition's previous amendment that our worries about the incorporation of a particular burden of proof provision which does appear elsewhere in the Act was inappropriate because this was, although not technically criminal, in the nature of a criminal proceeding like the rest of the Act, and accordingly it is appropriate that the kind of evidentiary provision which prevailed there should apply here. I remind the AttorneyGeneral that in relation to those criminal proceedings elsewhere in the Act- not in this pecuniary penalties part- the particular standard of proof which applies is of course the criminal standard of proof beyond reasonable doubt. But now the Attorney-General is no doubt going to say that in this particular context, which is technically not a criminal but a civil proceeding, it is inappropriate for that criminal standard to apply, and that we should retreat to some kind of civil standard of proof on the balance of probabilities. Because, let the Senate be in no doubt, that is the effect of the Bill as it stands at the moment. A civil standard will undoubtedly be applied in this area in the absence of any explicit statutory direction to the contrary. 
When the Bill was first brought into the other place, there was indeed an explicit clause, then a proposed new section 243E, which put the matter beyond doubt in stating, as it then did: 
In a proceeding under this Division, it is not necessary for the Court to be satisfied concerning any matter beyond reasonable doubt, but it shall, in all cases, be sufficient if the Court is satisfied concerning the matter on the balance of probabilities. 
However, in the proceedings in the other place, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  in response to various criticisms of this particular clause which had been mounted by a number of members, including some on his own side in the legislation committee, in fact removed that particular provision entirely, but not in order to substitute any explicit provision of the kind that the Opposition is now urging upon the Government. Rather, the statute was left silent. The Minister,  Mr Fife,  in explaining this, said in the other place that the result of doing so would be to: 
. enable the relevant court to determine the standard of proof appropriate to the circumstances of a particular case. 
Let there be no doubt but that this is technically a civil proceeding, as the Attorney-General has said, although it has all sorts of flavour of criminality about it, as I think we have both agreed. I would be interested to hear the AttorneyGeneral on this, but I think he would have no doubt that any court, in construing and applying this division of the proposed new Act, would in fact apply a civil standard. So the Government has tried to have it both ways. It has tried to meet the arguments of its critics by taking out a clause which expressly set a civil standard but has not substituted a criminal standard and is leaving it to happen, as it knows will happen, that the court will apply a civil standard. 
Using the language of the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  in another place, this is a massive con job. The Government is trying to faze the Parliament and the people into believing that it is being a little less extreme than in fact is the case. I suggest to the Attorney that there is a very strong case in principle which he ought to acknowledge for accepting the tenor and substance of the Opposition amendment. Surely he would accept that even if the onus is to be on the defendant, as is the case as a result of the treatment of the previous Opposition amendment, at least the standard applied by the tribunal in determining that issue ought to be a criminal standard- one of beyond reasonable doubt. As a result he ought to be prepared to accept the substance and the letter of the Opposition's amendment which puts that beyond doubt, which makes any threshold question of criminality which has to be established as an element in these proceedings one that has to be established by reference to a criminal standard and only then leaves to civil standards of proof the other subsidiary matters of a civil character that remain then to be determined. 
I urge the Attorney not to treat this amendment in his usual derisory fashion but to appreciate the point of principle that is being made, to appreciate the effect of what has been done in the other place, to acknowledge with as much fortitude as he can muster that a mistake has been made and to accept the Opposition's amendment accordingly. 
I give  Senator Carrick  another opportunity to lift his game in his capacity as Minister for Education. How can the Government possibly justify its Budget cutback in Commonwealth post-graduate awards from $9m to $8. 8m this year, representing a cutback in real terms of some 10 per cent, given the steadily increasing drain of Australia 's most qualified researchers overseas, the fact that Australia has already made a massive investment in their education and the fact that stepped up research in many fields in particular, energy and alternative fuels, could not be more vital at this time? 
-While speaking to the Budget Papers I want to treat with the ignore they deserve the numerous banal provocations of  Senator Kilgariff  and rather make what I hope will be a constructive contribution on the subject of tax avoidance- the scale of which is revealed in the Budget Papers- and measures which should be taken to overcome it. In doing so I will tread on both familiar ground and also on what has been hitherto more or less hallowed ground. The familiar ground is that the tax avoidance industry, despite the various steps which have been taken in recent months to curb it, is still operating on a monstrous and intolerable scale. Further steps must be taken to outlaw it in the interests of the nation as a whole. The hallowed ground on which I will tread is to suggest that one of the most important remedies which should be taken in respect of tax avoidance is to outlaw the most blatant avoidance schemes by retrospective legislation. That should be done not just by limited retrospective legislation back to the date of the  discovery and  an announcement of particular schemes, as the Government is now employing, but rather retrospectivity all the way back to the date of the first known commencement of the schemes in question. 
In arguing for this remedy I acknowledge that I am taking the argument not only further than it has been taken by the Government and Government members- although I note an honourable exception in this respect in the notable speech of  Senator Hamer  in this chamber on 22 November last year- but also I am taking it further than hitherto it has been taken by my own Party. On several occasions- most notably in the debate on the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Act in May last year- the Opposition has argued for the extension of retrospective legislation back to the commencement of the fiscal year in which the particular scheme was discovered and remedial legislation announced. It is also the case that the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden,  in his speech on 28 August last said that he gave fair warning on behalf of the Labor Party that the next Labor Government would wipe out the tax avoidance industry 'in all cases retrospectively'. But, whilst he employed language wide enough to encompass full retrospectivity of the kind to which I am referring, it is certainly the case that he was not completely explicit on that point. I want to be explicit; I want to take back the argument that further distance and to put the case that at least in certain areas of tax avoidance, which I will seek to define with some precision, fully retrospective legislation is both necessary in practice and justified in principle. 
An understanding of the problem involves an appreciation of the scope of tax avoidance in this country. By any estimate, the scope or scale of tax avoidance is now huge. Just how huge it is depends rather on how one defines the problem. If one collapses together the already fairly tenuous distinction between avoidance and evasion and regard as being satisfied by the description of avoidance all those kinds of schemes of a paper variety involving offsetting losses against other sources of income, if one takes into account income splitting devices of various kinds and if one takes into account not only those things but straightforward dishonest evasion schemes involving the non-disclosure of income thentaking into account the whole box and dice- the estimate that has been made, I think credibly, of the scale of evasion and avoidance in this country is something over $3.000m per annum. If one takes a narrower definition of avoidanceone which excludes straight out obvious evasion in the form of non-disclosure or other manifestly and obviously unlawful activities but includes all the rest, not only the paper schemes but also the various income splitting arrangements- it is more difficult to get anyone to give a remotely plausible figure. Certainly there has been no assistance from the Treasury in discerning a figure, but the kind of suggestion that I think credible is that avoidance of this kind is of the order of $ 1 ,000m plus per annum. 
However, the narrowest definition of avoidance and the one on which I propose to concentrate specifically tonight, is one which omits reference altogether to those kinds of avoidance arrangements which involve income splitting schemes or other ways of ordering one's affairs which might conceivably have some commercial justification, and concentrates rather on the socalled paper schemes, the essential characteristics of which I will describe. They are highly artificial arrangements which are unambiguously inspired by avoidance motives which have no legitimate commercial functions in whatever context they might be employed other than tax avoidance. Very often they involve arrangements which have no connection at all- or only the vaguest connection- with the form of business or profession normally carried on by the taxpayer. They are usually hawked in secrecy by promoters operating on a commission basis, collecting a commission of the order of 15c for every tax dollar saved. They are the kinds of schemes that the present Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has been claiming to be cracking down on in his highly publicised series of announcements, enactments and proposed enactments over the last 1 8 months. 
The kind of schemes that I am referring to in this narrowest definition of avoidance is best typified by the notorious Curran scheme which, in its original form as upheld by the High Court of Australia, involved the conversion by a stockbroker of a $2,000 money profit into a $ 1 80,000 paper loss. It is not my present purpose to discuss any of these particular schemes in detail or even to try to list those which have already been identified. Their general characteristics are well known and about a dozen of them so far have been subjected to remedial legislation which either has been enacted or introduced over the last 18 months. I refer to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Acts (No. 1), (No. 2) and (No. 5) 1978 and the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1979 which is presently before this Parliament. 
Despite this remedial legislation, the loss to revenue from these paper schemes has been and continues to be huge. I suggest to the chamber that one of the main reasons for the huge size of that loss, which I will endeavour to quantify in a moment, is the half-hearted way in which the Government has been going about its remedial legislation. In particular, I refer to the way in which in all cases legislation has been made retrospective no further back than the date of the Treasurer's first announcement of the existence of the scheme and his intention to legislate against it. As a result of that half-heartedness, the cost to the revenue and to this nation has been very great indeed. 
How can we estimate just what that cost has been? In relation to these paper schemes, unlike tax avoidance generally on which there have been no figures coming forth from the Treasury or the Taxation Office, we have now been given in the recent Budget Papers at least some figures from which we can begin to put together an estimate of the revenue losses involved. The presentation of these figures in Budget Statement No. 4 is, to say the least, confusing. Indeed sometimes it seems almost wilfully so. But it does appear that one can pull out the relevant figures and appreciate that the loss to the revenue in recent financial years, in the Government's own estimate, is of the order of $3 88m in the period up to the beginning of the present financial year, with a further $250m being the estimated loss for the current financial year. The precise figures on tax avoidance are $158m for the period up to 30 June 1978, $230m for the 1978-79 financial year- that represents an upgrading of the original Budget estimate of $50m by another $ 1 80m to reach that total figure- together with a projection for the current financial year of $250m. 
-That is right. Although the Budget Papers do not put it in so many words, it seems clear that these figures represent in reality not just tax which is in dispute, not just 'outstanding tax' which might conceivably be recovered for which a separate figure of some $433m is stated in the present Budget Papers; but rather it represents permanent, irrecoverable losses. There is some overlap between the figure of $433m and the global figure of $638m which I have mentioned as being the amount of those losses. But it is acknowledged by the Treasurer that the tax which is presently being sought under the legislation as it stood before this Government's remedial amendments to it is unlikely, in fact, ever to be recovered. 
Thus the situation is that the overwhelming bulk of that $638m the Government specifically refers to has been lost, and lost permanently, to the revenue and the nation. Those permanent losses are squarely attributable to the failure of the present Government to legislate fully retrospectively to cover those schemes during the period of their operation, prior to the application of the specific remedial legislation which the Government has now enacted. The reality, of course, as we all know in relation to the operation of these schemes, is that secrecy of a kind operates which means that the schemes just do not get discovered until at least well into the second year of their operation. Thus, one has a situation in which, unless legislation is fully retrospective, going right back to the date of commencement of the scheme, the tax promoters and, in particular the taxpayers get off scot-free. At present the stable door is being locked but it is only after the horse has been bolting for at least a year in each case. 
The result is that on the Government's own estimate sums of the order of magnitude of $638m over the whole of the period prior to this year, and $480m over the last two years are being lost by specific paper schemes. 
However, the position is worse than that. There is reason to believe that the figures that I have mentioned are almost certainly understated and that the amount of irrecoverable loss to the Treasury is, in fact, substantially higher. One just cannot assume, in relation to the period prior to the current financial year, that all the avoidance schemes then in operation have been detected. There has already been a substantial upward revision of the estimated loss for the 1978-79 period from $50m to $230m. It may well be that that loss will be further increased after further facts and information come to light. However, there is no basis for the estimated loss of $250m for the current financial year, other than the guesstimate of the Treasurer. So much is overtly acknowledged in the Budget Papers. Presumably it is an educated guess based on past experience but it is no better than a guess. But there is a reason to assume that this estimate of $250m for the current financial year is, in fact, quite substantially understated. The particular considerations that I draw to the attention of the Senate in justification for that assertion are these: In the first place, this Government was anxious in the run-up to the Budget to create a picture of a very low Budget deficit. The reality is that such a deficit will be achieved only if there is a minimisation of any loss to the revenue which could increase the size of that deficit. The higher the acknowledged avoidance figure for the present financial year, the bigger the deficit figure which would have clearly emerged from the Budget arithmetic. That is a reason for supposing that a very conservative view has been taken of the likely loss through tax avoidance schemes this year. It is also the case, I think one can assume, that the Treasurer is anxious to claim that his anti-avoidance measures over the last 18 months have been attended with a degree of success, that his measures are biting and that the Government is succeeding in its supposed crackdown on tax avoiders. 
It would be an awful confession of defeat were the Treasurer to come up with a massive figure of the order of $500m plus for the estimated loss to revenue through these schemes this year. I suggest that they are both excellent reasons why the true figure, in fact, is likely to be much higher this financial year than the $250m which has been stated. Indeed, I go so far as to suggest that the true figure is likely to be of the order of $500m a year. And taking into account the accumulated loss over the last run of years in which these tax avoidance schemes have been a problem, the true figure is not likely to be of the order of $638m, as has been stated in the Budget Papers, but rather closer to $ 1 ,000m. 
I think one should appreciate just what that means in real terms. Let us assume that there is a loss in tax revenue, whether accumulated over previous years or in this financial year alone, of the order of $500m. This means that if action is not taken effectively to recover it, the Government would be unable to spend that money. For example, $500m would buy tax cuts for everyone on average weekly earnings of four per cent or $2 a week. That $500m would buy an increase of eight per cent to all pensioners- $4.60 a week for single pensioners and $7.70 for married couples. I am suggesting that the $500m lost through, the present acceptance of the operation in their first year of these tax avoidance schemes could generate in the building and construction industry and in support industries something like 40,000 new jobs. 
But this Government seems not anxious to take action to recover the losses- the fantastically large losses- which are attributable to this kind of avoidance. The reason cannot be the practical difficulty. It cannot be the technical legal difficulties standing in the Government's way. A number of remedies are open to the Government of the technically easily accessible kind. One of them is to rewrite section 260 of the tax Act- the notorious section 260- in such a way as to overcome the emasculation of that section which has been accomplished by the High Court and to make it a genuine annihilating provision of the kind it was originally intended to be. However, I do acknowledge that getting section 260 right is likely to be a fairly time-consuming business, given the present incumbents of the High Court and the tentativeness the Government is showing in this area. It may be that, practically speaking, it is not as readily efficient a recovery mechanism as another obviously available one. That obviously available one is the very mechanism I am suggesting tonight, that is, full retrospectivity. There is nothing easier than to accomplish full retrospectivity from a technical, drafting and legislative point of view. All we have to do when drafting and enacting the kind of legislation that  Mr Howard  has been putting up over the last 18 months is to write into the date of operation clause an earlier date than the figures presently appearing there. 
The reason cannot be practical; it must have something to do with principle. That, of course, is the basis on which the Government has been refusing to extend the legislation in the way I am suggesting. The nub of the argument against full retrospectivity is the objections in principle. What are those objections? What is their force? I believe that the force of the arguments against retrospectivity has been much overstated and that there are good answers to all of them. Moreover, there are answers which have been accepted in other countries within our own legal tradition, most notably the United Kingdom where there are ample precedents, including very recent precedents, for this kind of legislation. The objections can be and are stated in a number of different ways, but really they boil down to objections of two distinct types. First of all, there is the argument that it is unjust, it is immoral, to make unlawful what, at the time the person did it, was quite lawful, albeit only technically. The second argument is based not so much on considerations of immorality or injustice but rather on inconvenience, the uncertainty argument; the argument that it would create intolerable uncertainty and confusion in the business community if people were unable to order their commercial and financial affairs in a way that would be the case if the ground rules could be changed after the event. 
What is the force of those arguments? Let me begin with the question of injustice or immorality. The proponents of this principle, this argument, point to the presumption against retrospectivity which has been long embedded in Anglo- Australian law and has been the subject of innumerable judicial and other statements explaining and justifying it, the essence of which is to the effect that the legislature does not intend that which is unjust. Perhaps the best known statement of it is that of Chief Justice  Sir Owen  Dixon in the case of Maxwell v. Murphy in the High Court in 1957. There are a number of points which can be made about this so-called presumption, this so-called principle, and let me state as succinctly as I can the four main points. The first is that the presumption as a matter of law is not absolute. The courts do acknowledge that it is always open to the legislature to make retrospective any law it wants to, provided it does so in clear terms and, moreover, that the legislature may be perfectly justified in principle in so doing. That point was made clearly by  Mr Justice  Isaacs, as he then was, in the case of George Hudson Ltd v. The Australian Timber Workers Union in the High Court in 1923, when he said this: 
But its application - 
That is the application of the presumption against retrospectivity-  is not sure unless the whole circumstances are considered, that is to say, the whole of the circumstances which the Legislature may be assumed to have had before it. What may seem unjust when regarded from the standpoint of one person affected may be absolutely just when a broad view is taken of all who are affected. There is no remedial Act which does not affect some vested right, but, when contemplated in its total effect, justice may be overwhelmingly on the other side. 
That was not a tax case, but the point has been powerfully made in a leading tax case, and I refer in particular to the English Court of Appeal decision in 1 942 in the case of Lord Howard de Walden v. Inland Revenue Commissioners, when the Master of the Rolls, Lord Greene, said on behalf of the court in relation to a particular and fully retrospective provision in the English Finance Act: 
The fact that the section has to some extent a retroactive effect appears to us of no importance when it is realised that the legislation is a move in a long and fiercely contested battle with individuals who well understand the rigour of the contest. 
The second point I want to make is that the principle against retrospectivity, in the terms in which it is usually stated, is not strictly applicable to the general taxation area anyway. A revenue law stating what income is and is not assessable does not, after all, make certain activity unlawful or illegal. All it does is attach certain financial consequences to the pursuit of that activity. Revenue laws have a quite different operation and purpose from criminal or penal laws. Their aim is to raise revenue rather than to punish anti-social conduct. I am not talking, might I add, about penalty provisions in anything I say about fully retrospective law. I do not argue for the appropriateness of criminal or penalty provisions in relation to fully retrospective remedial legislation. I do not think it is appropriate that people should be subject to criminal sanctions. However, I do think it is appropriate for them to pay the tax they would otherwise have paid had they not been able to take advantage of the avoidance scheme. In making this point, may I note in passing that this distinction between taxation and criminal laws generally is one that has appealed very much to the United States Supreme Court, where retroactive taxation laws in fact have been upheld on a number of occasions as not unconstitutional or not otherwise bad in principle. 
It must be acknowledged, however, that there is some manifest disadvantage attached to the operation of retrospective taxation remedial legislation, a disadvantage which perhaps is felt even more acutely by the taxpayer since he lacks any opportunity, as a result of the retrospective application of the law, to re-order his affairs in some way that may be more to his own firm's advantage, albeit this time more legally. So one has to go on to produce further justifications, persuasive justifications, for the operation of retrospective legislation. 
The third point I make then is that there is a set of obviously persuasive reasons for justifying the disadvantage so caused in the case of the particular kinds of schemes to which I have been referring. The arguments flow from the very nature of the schemes the subject of this discussion, and I simply reincorporate here the list of characteristics of the paper schemes that I referred to earlier in this speech. I referred to the schemes in question as being highly artificial arrangements, unambiguously inspired by avoidance motives, having no other conceivably legitimate commercial function than tax avoidance, and so on. 
The other point that needs to be made in this context is that we should appreciate just how grossly inequitable these schemes are to other members of the community, other wage and salary earners who have to pay their taxes, who cannot afford, even if they are motivated to do so, the kinds of fees charged by promoters, who do not have the kind of income or asset base which enables them to take advantage of these schemes. There are figures I could read into the record had I time which indicate just how there has been a steady erosion of the position of payasyouearn taxpayers as against non-PAYE taxpayers over the last few years, as a result, one can only assume, of the increasing burden they have had to bear because of the shirking of that burden by the non-PAYE taxpayers, the kinds of people who are taking advantage of the schemes. 
The essential injustice of allowing these schemes to stay on foot even for a limited time has been squarely acknowledged in the United Kingdom. I refer in this respect to the Budget Speech made by the then Chancellor of the Exchequer,  Mr Healey,  on 1 1 April 1 978 in which he announced the implementation of fully retrospective avoidance legislation- it covered a two-year period- specifically aimed at particular unattractive schemes which he there described. That legislation was the subject of some small controversy in the United Kingdom but has been passed. It is only the latest in a long line of similar fully retrospective avoidance remedial legislation which has been passed in that country over the years. 
The fourth point I make in respect of the socalled injustice of these schemes is that Parliament, under the proposal I am making, has full opportunity to debate the pros and cons of particular proposed retrospective remedial laws. It is not a matter of giving the Commissioner of Taxation or anybody else an open mandate to wander at large striking down anything that strikes his fancy; it is a matter of the Parliament itself carefully scrutinising particular schemes and the legislation proposed for their remedying to satisfy itself that they are as iniquitous as I have been suggesting, that in a particular case all the characteristics that I have referred to- the absence of any other legitimate or potentially legitimate function, the unambiguously avoidance motivated character of them and so on- are in fact satisfied. That is essentially the answer, I think, to those who worry about the notion of tax avoidance legislation of this kind being the thin edge of the wedge and an open ended stimulus for the implementation of all sorts of other intolerable retrospective legislation in other contexts, however justifiable it may be in this context. That argument does not wash when one considers the way in which the Parliament would have an opportunity fully to debate each such measure. 
On the subject of uncertainty I can be, as indeed I have to be, much briefer. The argument speaks for itself but it is an argument which is mis-stated in this context. Of course it will create uncertainty to have the possibility of these schemes being struck down after the event. That, after all, is the very objective- to operate as a deterrent to the future marketing of these schemes and not just a way of collecting lost revenue in the past. The question has to be whether in all the circumstances of the particular case the creation of that kind of certainty is in fact justified. The argument as to whether it is justified is essentially then the same kind of argument as I have just been putting based upon the essential nature of these schemes. The starting point in this kind of argument is the proposition that uncertainty in law is not itself an unmitigated evil. It can on occasions serve a noble purpose. Its role in the front line in the war against tax avoidance schemes is such an eminently noble purpose and one which justifies the operation of fully retrospective tax avoidance laws. 
I welcome the opportunity afforded by  Senator Tate's  motion, which I fully support, to draw attention once again, as indeed I did last night in the Budget debate, to the nature and scope of the tax avoidance problem and the measures which ought to be taken to solve it. There is no getting away from the fact that in recent years tax avoidance and evasion have risen to plague proportions and that tax avoidance has become a highly visible feature of our social and economic landscape. The result of those developments has been both a growing inequity in the system, as  Senator Tate  graphically pointed out, with wage and salary earners bearing an intolerably increasing proportion of the overall burden, and a growing tendency for the whole tax system to be held in increasing disrepute, with more and more people asking why they should be the mugs and why they should have to pay when others so conspicuously are getting away with it. People do not mind paying their fair share of taxation, but that is so only when they know that others are too. 
The scope of tax evasion and avoidance is gigantic. Let me spell out, in a little more detail than I had the opportunity to do last night, just what the scale of this phenomenon now is. How big it is rather depends on how we define avoidance and evasion. The widest definition of avoidance is one that fuzzes the already somewhat tenuous distinction, as  Senator Tate  pointed out, between evasion and avoidance. It includes not only the outrageous and blatant paper schemes such as Curran and its progeny, but also artificial income splitting arrangements of various kinds, involving family trusts, partnerships and the like, to offset losses against other derived income- an extension of the kind of Pitt Street farmer model. Going still further down the scale there are arrangements involving the bartering of goods and services with no identification of the money value of the goods and services being so exchanged. This is becoming increasingly common in our community. There are situations where there is payment of inflated transfer prices for goods and services received from overseas affiliated companies and organisations. Further down still there is the provision of employment benefits, in the form of allowances, benefits, compensations and gratuities which may be notionally taxable under the present tax legislation but which are notoriously unenforcible. Right down at the bottom of the scale there are situations of employees working for cash under assumed names and other situations of straightforward evasion through non-disclosure of income. 
If one endeavoured to estimate the loss to revenue from all these various kinds of activities combined one could almost name one's own figure because the estimates just have not been made publicly available. The best and most commonly suggested figure, which was that claimed in a newspaper report in the  Sun-Herald  on 13 May this year to be based on a confidential Treasury document, is of the order of $3,000m. That is over 10 per cent of the whole Commonwealth revenue for 1979-80, more than equivalent obviously to the proposed deficit of $2, 1 93m in this year's Budget, more than the tax received from individuals paying provisional tax and roughly equivalent to the whole of the amount paid by way of company taxes. This is the order of the amount paid by way of company taxes. This is the order of magnitude one is talking about if one takes into account all the estimated avoidance and evasion activities presently taking place. 
If one narrows the definition a bit and excludes from one's vision the blatant and straightout evasion situations, with people just not disclosing sources of income or relying on cash or barter arrangements without the Taxation Office's being told- arrangements which are manifestly in breach of the law as it presently stands- and confines one's attention to what have been regarded traditionally as avoidance arrangements, and if one includes within that the whole range of avoidance arrangements, including not only paper schemes but also all other forms of artificial tax minimisation, particularly schemes involving income splitting arrangements of various kinds, then the best available estimates that seem to emerge in the literature as to the overall scale in dollar terms of this kind of avoidance is a figure of the order of $ 1 ,000m plus per annum. That is a hesitantly arrived at guess made very much a guess by the failure of the Treasury, regrettably, to give us such information as is undoubtedly in its possession about the estimated losses that are associated with various kinds of family trusts, partnerships, superannuation and other kinds of schemes in that general category. 
The narrowest definition of avoidance is that which confines itself simply to the paper schemes which were the primary subject of my discussion last night and of  Senator Tate's  motion. I think it is important to appreciate precisely what we are talking about when referring to paper schemes because these are naturally the avoidance arrangements which attract the greatest legitimate community indignation. These kinds of schemes are without any redeeming commercial utility or justification. They are schemes which are highly artificial, which are unambiguously inspired by avoidance motives and which have no possible commercial function associated with the normal business or profession being carried on by the taxpayer in question. They are the kinds of schemes which are hawked about in conspiratorial secrecy by promoters operating on a commission basis. They are schemes which are entered into by the taxpayer with his eyes absolutely wide open as to what he is about and why he is doing it. They are schemes which are entered into on the assumption that even if the legislature catches up with the scheme and legislates to close it off, the legislation will be unlikely to come down- indeed the scheme is unlikely to be discovered- until well into its second year of operation when the returns from its first year of operation finally get to the Taxation Office. Accordingly, they are schemes which, given the way they are legislated against at the moment, guarantee a very significant return to their promoters and to their users, at least in their first year of operation. 
These are the kinds of schemes which, as again I said last night, have been estimated by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to have cost the revenue, more or less irrecoverably, something close to $500m over the last two years and well over $600m if one goes back beyond that. Those are figures which, for reasons I have already stated to the Senate in earlier debates this week, I regard as generally very substantially understated. I believe that the current figure at which the paper schemes are bleeding money from the revenue is more accurately around $500m per year, an enormously large and significant figure. That is the range of things that one has to confront when one talks about the incidence of avoidance and evasion of tax in this community. 
The inequity that is developing in our taxation scales has been well articulated by  Senator Tate.  I do not dwell on that particular point except to say that it can hardly be reiterated too often that the real slug in this area is the one that is being experienced not by the businessmen and professionals who have been able to take advantage of these schemes but by the wage and salary earners who, even if they have had the inclination to do so, manifestly cannot do so. 
Let us talk about solutions to the avoidance problem. A whole range of solutions is potentially available, depending again very much each time on the kind of evasion or avoidance that is in issue. When one is talking about straight out evasion in the form of non-disclosure of income derived, it has to be acknowledged that on its face the present law is quite adequate to prohibit that kind of bald and unsophisticated approach to one's fiscal responsibilities. The problem is simply that of enforcing that law and making it stick. A lot can be said about the inadequacies of the Taxation Office in this respect- inadequacies which have a great deal to do, as is universally the case these days, with staff ceilings and considerations of that kind. But that is perhaps more a matter for another debate. The primary focus of our attention needs to be on avoidance arrangements, properly so called, which are not, the way the Income Tax Assessment Act is drawn at the moment, effectively and absolutely circumscribed by prohibitions. 1 am talking here about avoidance arrangements generally involving income splitting of various kinds- the offsetting of losses against income derived from another source and the whole infinite variety of transactions which may or may not be capable of some redeeming commercial justification when used in a particular well-motivated context, but which are all too often used wholly for the purpose of bleeding dry the revenue. 
In respect to avoidance situations generally, there is a number of different ways in which the legislature can approach the problem. Retrospective remedial, piecemeal legislation of the kind that I was discussing last night is only one of them. I take the opportunity that is presented by  Senator Tate's  motion to mention some of the other legislative solutions that the Government ought to be getting into. Might 1 just say at the outset, however, how welcome it was to read today the statement by the Institute of Chartered Accountants, through its  President, Mr John  Bishop, announcing a direction by that Institute to its members to oppose artificial or contrived taxation schemes, and indicating that at least ethical sanctions would be imposed within that portion of the accountancy profession comprising its members in relation to such schemes. Regrettably, however, one fears that the nature and scope of the problem that we are talking about is such that it will not be solved, certainly not overnight, by relying on unenforceable ethical constraints of that kind. Nonetheless, it is very pleasing to note that at least one of our professions has made such an announcement. We now wait, presumably in vain, for the lawyers and doctors to come on board too. It is pleasing to note that at least one of the relevant professions involved in tax avoidance matters has at last acknowledged its larger social responsibilities. But we are not going to get there except by legislation- much tougher and more effective legislation than the kind that  Mr Howard,  despite all of the public relations puffery over the last 18 months, has yet come up with. 
What is needed? In the first place, as  Senator Tate  has said, what is needed is certainly the rewriting of section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act to overcome its emasculation by the High Court- a rewriting that would give the Commissioner of Taxation what it was originally intended that he should be given, namely, a general discretion to override any arrangement of an artificial kind that is wholly inspired by avoidance motives. However, I do not take the view that section 260 is the be-all and end-all of taxation law enforcement. It is an important weapon in the armoury, but I envisage difficulties in drafting the section in such a form that it will survive the challenge to which it will undoubtedly be exposed in the High Court. It is a necessary weapon, lt is something which should have been on the statute book in a rewritten form a darn sight earlier than seems likely even now, despite  Mr Howard  's protestations to that effect. We need it, but by itself it is not good enough. 
The second type of solution to the tax avoidance problem is one that has not been canvassed widely, if at all, in the literature or in public debate, but I raise it as a matter which demands very careful consideration indeed. It is a wholly new approach to tax assessment generally, whereby income tax would be imposed separately on income derived from different sources. That is, it would no longer be possible to offset income from one source by losses derived from another. The problem with the present situation is that a taxpayer has both the ability and the incentive to offset losses incurred in, for example, a primary production or property investment against personal exertion income from, say, a medical practice. It is this ability to offset income from one source by losses from another which, more than anything else, has provided the impetus for a number of high income earners to adopt various kinds of paper schemes and also the age-old practice of Pitt Street farming. 
One would pay tax only on the income that one did in fact derive. 
One would endeavour, under this scheme, which regrettably I have not the time fully to articulate now, to divide a person 's income into separate blocks or categories. On the one hand there would be net income derived from personal exertion as against, on the other, net unearned income derived from property investments. One would certainly be able to offset losses against profits within each category. A third category might be income derived from primary production and, again, one could offset losses against profits in that area but would not be allowed a transfer from one category to another. 
Refunds over successive years could perhaps be accommodated by that system, but again only within one category at a time. Another variation of that concept was floated by  Senator Hamer  last year. It was rather less easily enforceable. He said that for any given loss to be taken into account it should be required that it be incurred by a person who had a genuine profit motive at the time that he incurred it. It is the same concept as getting rid of artificial offset arrangements, but it would be administered in a different way. 
The third particular kind of solution- one that needs to be treated more effectively than is the case with existing legislation, although there are some signposts to it in that legislation- is the taxation of capital gains in a number of areas in which capital gains arrangements have been devised as, in effect, an income substitute. Might I just say in parenthesis that this kind of thinking lies very much behind the concept of the capital gains tax to which the Australian Labor Party has been developing a policy commitment. We see an awful lot of tax avoidance occurring through the artificial creation of capital gains out of what is in reality an income deriving situation. 
The last of the particular measures that I want to mention- I reiterate what I said last night in this respect- concerns the question of the passage of piecemeal remedial legislation, the closing of loopholes in relation to particular schemes as they emerge, but their closing by fully retrospective legislation.  Senator Tate  indicated a certain lack of enthusiasm for piecemeal legislation in this tax avoidance area, not only because it added exponentially to the statute book, but also because it encouraged a kind of sporting contest atmosphere. However, the point that I made last night, and that I reiterate now, is that if one makes piecemeal legislation retrospective it is very much a one-sided sporting contest which is likely to result in a knock out of more than just the scheme against which one is legislating. Because of the deterrent, disincentive effect of the notion that Parliament may legislate completely retrospectively in relation to any future scheme in which one might engage, it is likely to have a much wider-ranging effect than would appear to be the case on its face. It is the deterrent effect, once it has been done on one occasion, that is really significant. 
I appreciate that it is necessary and desirable that this Parliament exercise caution in approaching the whole subject of retrospective legislation in any context at all. However, I make the point again in winding up that in talking about retrospective legislation in the taxation area one is taking about something that is very different from penal retrospective legislation. One is talking about something that has been acknowledged by the courts on a number of occasions to be legitimate and desirable in this area, which is an area in which individuals enter into arrangements not in a state of Garden of Eden innocence but with their eyes wide open. One is enacting the legislation in a context in which there are precedents for it in such jurisdictions as Britain. One is enacting it in a situation in which the Parliament on each occasion would have an opportunity to explore fully, discuss and analyse it, satisfying itself as to the legitimacy and justice of that solution in the particular case. 
Debate interrupted. 
I refer the Minister for Education to the proposed introduction of fees for overseas students, which I am sure the Minister will be disconcerted to hear is now becoming known in certain sections of the community rather unsympathetically as the 'blacks tax'. I ask the Minister what information his Department has on the average family income of those students whom it is proposed to make pay fees of $1,500 to $2,500 a year? Can the Minister confirm or deny the accuracy of the reported survey of the Overseas Students Service that the average family income in question is of the order of only $A8,000 to $A9,000, and will he agree that if this is the case- or if he cannot deny it- the proposed fees represent an unjustifiable order of magnitude? Finally, how much further delay can be expected before the full details of this scheme are announced to this Parliament and, indeed, to those thousands of students whose careers are very substantially hanging on those details? 
My question is directed to either the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services or, if he prefers to answer it, the Attorney-General. I refer to the Irish Republican Army sympathiser,  Mr John  Murray, who, in the aftermath of the Mountbatten assassination last month, made a number of extravagant and, no doubt to most people, quite unpalatable statements about the role in Northern Ireland of the British Government and British royalty. Is it a fact that officers of the Commonwealth Police have this week visited radio station 3XY in Melbourne and other media outlets seeking copies of tape recordings and other information relating to contacts made by the station or stations in question with  Mr Murray?  Is it the case that the Commonwealth Police, subject no doubt to the agreement of the Crown Solicitor and the AttorneyGeneral, either have laid or are about to lay charges of sedition against  Mr Murray  under the Commonwealth Crimes Act? Does the Minister accept that, whatever his or my views might be about the merits or tastefulness of  Mr Murray's  reported remarks, there is a tradition of robust free speech in political matters in this country and that a charge of sedition against  Mr Murray  would be no more appropriate than was the charge of sedition which it will be recalled  Mr Ellicott  threatened to lay against  Mr Whitlam  in the aftermath of events in 1975? 
-I move: 
That the Senate disallow the Audit (Exempt Accounts) Regulations, contained in Statutory Rules 1979 No. 67. 
This is the first opportunity for the Senate to consider the policy and the machinery implications of the amendments to the Audit Act which were made earlier this year despite Opposition objections. These amendments made it possible for certain departments and agencies to become completely immune from any independent scrutiny of their accounts, immune not only from scrutiny of their accounts by this Parliament but also from scrutiny by the Auditor-General. The effect of the regulations before us today is to declare as prescribed organisations the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, known as ASIO, and the Australian Secret Intelligence Service, known as ASIS. It is also to declare as a prescribed department the whole of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. 
The result of this prescription in the regulations is that the whole or any part of the accounts of ASIO, ASIS or the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, under section 70  D  of the Audit Act, can be declared by the Minister for Finance to be exempt accounts and, as such, immune from the scrutiny of the Auditor-General. I understand that such a ministerial declaration either has been made or is about to be made in respect of the whole of the accounts of ASIS and ASIO. I know that in respect of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs there has been a ministerial declaration in relation to that part of the departmental accounts known as the Australian Customs Advance Account, which is part of the accounts used to finance various covert activities by the Narcotics Bureau of that Department. As the regulations stand, it is possible for the Minister to go further than that within the Customs Bureau and, at his discretion, if the mood so strikes him at any time during the currency of this regulation, declare the whole or any part of the regulations of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs equally exempt. 
There are two questions for this Parliament. The first is whether it is tolerable that significant and sensitive areas of government expenditure should be removed entirely from the accountability process in this way, no matter how sensitive from a security or other perspective those accounts might be. The second question is whether it is tolerable that there should be within the discretion of the Minister a power to exempt the accounts of whole departments or whole agencies from independent scrutiny simply because there are some small parts of the accounts of those departments or agencies which, on balance, may justify some special security procedures being associated with them. 
I want to deal with each of those questions in turn. The first is- whether these sensitive areas should be removed entirely from the accountability process. I am well aware that a number of these matters were canvassed earlier this year in the context both of the debate on the Audit Bill and, more particularly, the debate on the Australian Security and Intelligence Organisation Bill. I therefore do not want to prolong unnecessarily the argument on this occasion, particularly as Estimates committees are waiting to sit. Nonetheless, I do feel that it is important to make a number of points to the Senate in support of my contention that regulations of this kind are quite intolerable. The first point relates to the size of the budgets, the amounts we are talking about in relation to these agencies. In the case of ASIS, we now at least have the benefit, which we did not have for a number of years, of a single line appropriation appearing in the estimates of the Department of Foreign Affairs. For the current financial year 1979-80, that figure is $8,271,000, which is an increase over last year's allocation of $7,343,000. I am unable to state any other figures relating to this agency because it was only two years ago that for the first time there was any public acknowledgement of its existence or any public acknowledgement in the Budget Papers of the funding associated with it. The huge scale and the rapidly increasing nature of the expenditure on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation could perhaps best be appreciated were I to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out the financing of that Organisation over the last 10 years. I seek leave to do so. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="082232197909256_27_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="082232197909256_28_1.jpg"></graphic>

-The table shows that there has been an increase in raw dollars terms in the initial appropriations each year from $3.4m in 1970-71 to $ 14.2m today, on any view wildly ahead of what might have been expected with expenditure simply keeping pace with inflation. Should anyone be in any doubt about the way in which that expenditure has kept ahead of inflation, the table also reveals that, in fact, in every year over the last 10 years, with the exception of the two Labor Budgets in 1 973 and 1 974, the appropriations for ASIO very substantially exceeded the increase in the consumer price index indicating that there has been rapidly accelerating growth in the actual size of the Organisation, quite apart from its funding keeping pace with inflation. The table also shows that over the last four years this acceleration has got what some people might term as completely out of hand. 
In 1976-77, the CPI increase ran at 13.8 per cent but the ASIO appropriation increased by 23.8 per cent. In 1 977-78, inflation increased by 9.5 per cent compared with an increase in the ASIO appropriation of 27.6 per cent. Cumulative upon those early increases, in 1978-79, with inflation running at 8.2 per cent, the ASIO budget increased by 26.2 per cent. 
Indeed, as  Senator Cavanagh  says, clearly there is no staff ceiling in respect of the Organisation. Finally, the current appropriation is up 13.4 per cent with an estimated inflation rate, we are told in the Budget Papers, of 10 per cent this year. The appropriation for ASIO is way ahead of the inflation rate all the way through. It is legitimate for this Parliament and the Australian people to be asking where that money is going. It may be that the money is spent too sensitively on security to justify openly and in complete detail before the public and this Parliament, although I doubt that. But even if we accept that, what on earth is the justification for keeping the expenditure secret from the Auditor-General? 
I make the further point about the size of the amounts involved. There is absolutely no guarantee that those figures that I have mentioned for both ASIS and ASIO represent the ceiling on the money that is actually being spent on these two intelligence agencies. I leave out of account for those purposes all the rest of the spy organisations such as the Joint Intelligence Organisation, the Defence Signals Directorate, the Office of National Assessments and so on in respect of which different considerations apply. I point out that in the United States of America, as has been made apparent in the report of the Pike Committee, which is the House of Representatives Select Committee on Intelligence, the secret vote associated with security activities in the United States very substantially exceedsindeed, by a factor of five said the Pike Committee- what had been acknowledged publicly to be the size of the actual expenditure. When one takes into account all the different personnel, equipment and property costs that are hidden away under other departmental appropriations and under different items of a more innocent looking character, the Office of Management and Budget in the United States found that the real cost was of an order of five times greater than the officially acknowledged cost for intelligence activities. We do not know in Australia to what extent, if at all, there is any such secret vote. We do not know the extent to which, if at all, elsewhere in the Department of Defence, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet or goodness knows where else other moneys are being used to finance covert intelligence gathering and processing operations of one kind or another. 
We know that there is such a thing as a secret vote because  Mr Justice  Hope let it slip that there was. I refer not to the fourth report of the Royal 
Commission on Intelligence and Security- the Hope report of 1977 -where there is a discussion of a very attenuated kind about the level of financial accountability that ASIO should have, a discussion which incidentally opts wholly for the desirability of there being an independent auditing of these accounts by the Auditor-General, a position from which the Government has retreated and which is part of the Opposition's complaint. In addition to that there is discussion which squarely focuses on the financing issue. I refer the Senate to the third and much smaller report of  Mr Justice  Hope in which at paragraph 86 he recommends: 
That consideration be given to the establishment of a special ministerial committee ... to deal with the following mutters: 
To approve the annual estimates for the intelligence community, including the secret vote, and to endorse forward financial plans in a form to be agreed on. 
One is left by that reference simply to guess, because we have not been told and we never are told by any Minister or any Government, what moneys are being appropriated for this purpose and how the money is being spent. The point I simply make is that the sums of money we are talking about here may well be substantially greater than even those acknowledged to exist in the one line appropriations to which we are presently treated. 
The other aspect of this question is not simply the size of the funds involved but the possibility of their misuse. Here one must quote the United States experience. It is the case that the United States revelations about the operations and activities of the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation have amounted to a devastating indictment of the kind of lack of accountability that is here involved in the Audit Act and in these regulations made under the Audit Act, the disallowance of which I am now moving. In referring to the United States record I draw attention to the report of the Church committee, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence which reported in 1975, the Pike committee, which I have already referred to and which reported in 1 976, and the Inouye committee, which is the name of the committee which took over the subsequent sessions  or  the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and which has conducted more recently hearings on whether the disclosure of funds authorised for intelligence action is in the public interest. In referring to these United States committees, I am not referring to the information which has emerged about assassination plots, about mail openings, about FBI break-ins or about the kind of scurrilous disinformation campaigns which have been associated with Martin Luther King and in much more recent days with actress Jean Seberg. I am not talking about these things because they do not necessarily cost much money; I am talking about the revelations of misuse of funds by the FBI and the CIA, often on a very grand scale and sometimes on a rather more petty scale, but a misuse notwithstanding. 
Let me list some of the illustrations to have emerged from these United States reports. First of all there is the revelation of the expenditure by the CIA in the early 1 970s- this was revealed in 1971- of something like $300m annually in supporting a 26,000 man army in Laos without any public knowledge or accountability of the expenditure. Secondly, I refer to the revelation by the Church committee as to the precise dollar-worth of the support given by the United States Government to the overthrow of the Allende regime in Chile after 1970, namely $8m. I refer also to the Pike committee revelation, which is at the other end of the scale and which, I suppose, demonstrates equally the kind of misuse of funds that can take place. The fact is that a small CIA station in a small country spent a total of $4 1 ,000 on its liquor bill in one year. I do not think that even  Mr Gyngell  could reach those heights. 
Again from the Pike committee we have a revelation of heads of state being given expensive female companions at the American taxpayers' expense. We have other revelations in that report about people with questionable reputations being paid to make pornographic movies for blackmail purposes; revelations about covert procurement operations in relation to equipment by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, involving unwarranted mark-ups amounting to some millions of dollars by commercial middlemen who were closely acquainted with senior FBI officials. They were able to get away with it because of the total lack of effective accounting auditing scrutiny by the Government Accounting Office in the United States or anywhere else. 
Finally among this fairly random list of examples from the 1975 'Report to the  President  by the Commission on CIA Activities within the United States', there is a fascinating illustration of funds under the CIA vote being used not for intelligence but for political purposes. That is an example of the shuffling or manipulation of funds between categories that can take place because of the opportunity to hide expenditures afforded by lack of accountability. The story here is as follows: 
In the spring of 1970, the CIA was requested by members of the White House staff to contribute funds for payment of stationery and postage for replies to persons who wrote President Nixon after he initiated the invasion of Cambodia. Although CIA officials at first expressed reluctance to use CIA funds for this purpose, the Agency eventually forwarded two checks totaling $33,655.68 to the White House to reimburse its costs. Because of the unique CIA budgetary scheme, no one other than the CIA's internal Audit Staff ever reviewed this unusual expenditure. 
This use of CIA funds for a purpose unrelated to intelligence is improper. 
It was manifestly so. They are a diverse set of examples of varying magnitude and of financial significance but equal degrees of significance in terms of the lessons for Australia about what can happen if we do not have proper accountability mechanisms of an independent kind- of the kind that have been universally urged by all of those United States congressional committee reports to which I have referred. There is just no guarantee that this kind of misuse of expenditure will not happen here. We have it on  Sir William  McMahon's own evidence, given in the other place last week, that when Prime Minister, with nominal responsibility for these areas, he just could not get a sensible report out of anyone. I refer those interested to pages 1226 and 1227 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  for 18 September, in which we find that lengthy statement of woe from  Sir William  McMahon about how the Director-General of Security, along with everyone else, was just refusing to take him seriously when he was Prime Minister, and give him the basic information that he needed to know what was happening in ASIO. 
If the point that I am making about the necessity for accountability, if not public then at least to an independent officer such as the AuditorGeneral, is true in relation to national security matters, how much more true is it when we come down to matters of ordinary law enforcement, such as are involved in the accounts of the Narcotics Bureau under the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, accounts which also are in issue under these regulations. For better or for worse- I say that it is for worse- there has been a long tradition of secrecy about national security; but there has been no such tradition of close secrecy- at least that we have been made aware of- in relation to law enforcement activities. It is a quite unwarranted extension of that principle of secrecy and, in particular, that principle of total unaccountability, for any accounts of any part of an ordinary government department to be made exempt such as is allowed for by these regulations. It is true that particular accounts of the Customs Bureau- for example, the Australian Customs Advance Account which is to be specifically made exempt under these regulations, relate to sensitive matters, to covert operations undertaken by the Narcotics Bureau. 
It is true that the moneys involved in these accounts are related to such things as payment of rewards to informers; the purchase of drugs and other smuggled goods during the course of investigations; so-called show money to be used by undercover agents to prove their ability to buy large parcels of drugs or smuggled goods, and to a variety of other incidental and operational expenses associated with the course of narcotics investigations and which, because of considerations of urgency or security, cannot be funded from normal channels. 
All those reasons make it desirable that full details of those accounts should not be made clear to the public at large, or even perhaps to this Parliament. I accept that. At the same time, I see absolutely no reason why they should not be subject to independent scrutiny by the AuditorGeneral. I find it a matter of regret that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee in considering this question, and charged as it is with the task of defending the liberties of the subject when they are put in issue by regulations, reached the view that this was an inappropriate matter on which the Committee, as such, should make a recommendation to this Parliament. The view taken was that what was involved here was really a larger question of policy which ought not to come up through this particular channel. It is for that reason that I have moved the disallowance of the regulations so far as they relate to this large question of the secrecy and unaccountability of Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, the Australian Security Intelligence Service and the Narcotics Bureau accounts. I believe that it is such a crucially important issue of policy that this Parliament, even if it is not moved to do so by its own Regulations and Ordinances Committee, should take the opportunity of striking a firm position on it and rejecting this kind of legislation. 
The remaining aspect of this regulation is a very important one. It raises this question of machinery. The question is, and I repeat what I said earlier: Is it tolerable that it should be within the discretion of a minister to exempt the accounts of a whole department or agency from independent scrutiny simply because there is some small part of the accounts of that department or agency which might or might not be thought to justify special insulation? The Audit Act at the moment makes this possible. It enables the prescription, by regulation, of a whole department or a whole agency, as has been accomplished by the regulations before us today. It provides that once that prescription is made it is open for the Minister to declare any or all parts of the accounts in question exempt if he is satisfied that it is, in effect, in the national interest for him to make them so exempt. This particular problem has been the subject of close scrutiny by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, and I understand that  Senator Missen,  the  Chairman  of that Committee, will indicate this to the Senate in a moment. Some action is certainly taking place to secure changes in the Act to avoid this kind of situation recurring. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee took the view that there was a problem with the overkill of this whole arrangement but that it was a matter for correction in the Act itself rather than any particular regulations made under it. So it was primarily for that reason in this case that the Committee chose not to proceed with the disallowance route. I took the view, as an individual senator, that the problem lay with both the Act and the regulations and that the regulations, if they were passed, made it possible for the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs at any time to exempt all the accounts in his Department, not just the particular sensitive Narcotics Bureau Covert Operations account which he has so far declared. Even if the Minister makes an undertaking, as I understand he has been prepared to do, not to exempt any further part of the departmental accounts pursuant to his power under these regulations, I still take the view that it is intolerable in principle that the situation of formal legal entitlement to make such a declaration should continue. 
I also took, and take, the view that, if one is serious about getting obnoxious legislation changed in this Parliament, in getting the Government to move so to change it, the least likely way of ensuring that end will be to succumb cheerfully to any use the Government proposes to make of that legislation until such time as it gets around to making the amendment in question. 1 take the view that, if legislation is bad, everything that happens under it by definition is equally bad and ought to be resisted by this Parliament, with pressure accordingly thus placed on the Government to act not at its usual lugubrious pace in these matters but to act swiftly to correct a manifest problem. I hope the Government will move on this problem but I am not particularly encouraged by its response so far. 
I wish to summarise fairly baldly the nature of the exchanges which have so far taken place. In the first place, as a Committee we asked why it was necessary to prescribe whole departments if the Government wanted to exempt only a part of the department's actual activity, to which the answer was: 'You cannot refer in an Act or regulation to any part of a department unless that part is given some formal legal status as a statutory authority in its own right with its own identity'. Stage two of the exchange was that the Committee then wrote back and asked the Government why it could not refer to a particular part of a department by some appropriate descriptive statement; why did it insist on this particular view, to which the answer was: 'Well, maybe you could refer to a particular part of a department but that is not the real problem; the real.problem relates not to identifying a particular part of a department but to the kinds of accounts which are not necessarily co-extensive in their scope with particular physical parts of departments or organisations '. 
In stage three of the exchange, the Committee replied: 'Okay, why can't you then refer in your regulations if not to particular parts of departments at all then at least to particular accounts; if it is possible in a declaration to refer, for example, to the Australian Customs Advance Account, it ought to be equally possible to refer specifically by name to that account in a regulation'. So far we have been greeted with fairly bemused silence and promises to review this situation as soon as possible. Regrettably, that reply could not be managed by today- today being the last day in which any such disallowance motion can be moved. That is why I am pursuing it now. 
Finally, I do suggest that a thoroughly unsatisfactory state of affairs prevails with respect to this regulation. Honourable senators have had promulgated a regulation which is bad in principle and which is much too sweeping in its scope even if to some people in this chamber its basic principles were acceptable. I urge the' Senate to exercise for once its role as a watchdog, as a house of review- a role which it is always proudly proclaiming for itself- and send back the Government to the drawing board to produce new legislation in this area and new regulations which are more acceptable than the ones with which honourable senators have been greeted so far. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! Is the motion seconded? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
1 ) Has construction of the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory at Geelong been contracted out to John Holland (Constructions) Proprietary Limited on a 'design and construct' basis while the Minister's Department drawing office at Hawthorn is almost idle. 
Has the Department's extensive automated resource control system been substantially run down since the Liberal-Country Party Government took office; if so, how can the run down of this system, which enables design and drawing office resources to be more fully employed, and which highlights any work-flow inefficiencies, be reconciled with the Government's much stated objective of efficient administration. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
1 ) Has the American Attorney-General re-introduced the practice of printing and publishing the opinions of his Department given in response to request for legal advice as stated in the American Bar Association Journal, September 1978. 
What progress, if any, has been made with respect to the preparation for publication of the opinions of the Australian Attorney-General and his Officers. 
If it is proposed to publish the opinions referred to in (2) above, will all such opinions be published or only a selection; if the latter what criteria will govern the selection. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Does the statement favouring placing a greater reliance on indirect taxation than on income taxes in revenue raising, which was made yesterday by the Minister for Finance,  Mr Eric  Robinson, to a House of Representatives Estimates committee, represent the present view of the Government as a whole, or does it represent a possible view which the Government is considering and which  Mr Eric  Robinson is flying as a trial balloon? In either event, what is the status now of the Treasurer's announcement of eight months ago that the Government would not introduce, under any circumstances, a broad-based indirect tax, such as a value added tax? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
1 ) When, and why, was a decision taken to reduce the opening hours of Trans-Australia Airlines Limited 's Melbourne City Receiving Depot, 23 Therry Street, from 1 1.30 p.m. to 10.00 p.m. on weekdays and from 10.00 p.m. to 2.00 p.m. on Saturdays. 
Arc not cut-backs in services of this kind a false economy, in view of the frequent needs of industry and the community to pick up freight urgently. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
Will the Attorney-General, in the interests of freedom of information, table the Paper embodying the Joint Review of Public Assembly Laws, referred to in his press release of 9 July 1979; if not, why not. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Transport seen reports in this morning's Press, and in particular in the  Canberra Times,  that in the matter of  Mrs Deborah  Wardley counsel for Ansett Airlines of Australia told the Victorian Supreme Court yesterday that if Ansett was now forced to admit her to the November pilot training intake it would nevertheless proceed immediately to dismiss her forthwith under its powers under the Airline Pilots' Agreement? What is the Government's reaction to this extraordinary statement? Does it accept that it amounts to a quite contemptuous disregard not only for the courts but also for the letter and the spirit of the relevant sex discrimination legislation? Finally, will the Government consider imposing conditions on Ansett 's operating licences to ensure that it does not continue to engage in flagrant sex discrimination of this kind in the future? 
-Winding up this debate for the Opposition as I understand I now am, I want to try to draw together some of the various themes that have been expressed by speakers on both sides of the House and to draw the Senate's attention very closely to the terms of the Bill before us. The Passports Amendment Bill no doubt is admirable in its apparent intention but I suggest is quite unhappy in its execution. It is admirable to the extent that the freedom of movement- the right to travel, to enter, to leave from and return to one's own country- is too important to be left to unfettered ministerial or bureaucratic whim, which is exactly the situation that has prevailed until now, with a general discretionary power being vested in the Minister with respect to refusals to issue passports and the cancellation of passports. This Bill apparently is intended to specify guidelines and to identify with some precision the circumstances in which in the future passports may be refused or revoked. Nonetheless, the Opposition argues that this Bill is unhappy in its execution to the extent that when one closely examines the legislation one finds just as many areas of vagueness and discretion and opportunities for bureaucratic or ministerial wrongheadedness as has been the case hitherto. 
The central problem with the Bill is the very way in which it is constructed. It does not say that, subject to certain necessary exceptions every Australian citizen has a basic right to a passport. It does not say that a passport shall be issued on application unless clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) et cetera apply so as to justify a refusal. Rather, what it says is that passports may be issued upon application, with various provisions then going on to set out circumstances a, b, c, d, et cetera in which a passport shall not be issued unless the Minister, in the exercise of his discretionary benevolence, decides nonetheless to override the particular authorising officer and issue it anyway. 
Thus, before we even get to the specific provisions of the legislation, which directly and explicitly justify a refusal to issue a passportprovisions such as the existence of an arrest warrant or a court order- we have, as  Senator Tate  has been at pains to point out, a general area of discretion vested in the Minister and his officers to decide whether or not to issue the passport, irrespective of the applicability of those provisions. It is this situation which makes possible, for example, the continued operation of that policy, or practice as it is described, whereby passports will not in fact be issued to one spouse, or former spouse, without the consent of the other. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  in his second reading speech, openly acknowledged that this practice, to which there is no specific reference at all in the text of this legislation, will continue until at least Australia becomes a signatory to the International Convention on the Recovery of Maintenance. Incidentally, we are not told how long it will take for that signatory status to come about, but knowing Australia's track record in regard to the ratification of international treaties- a most unhappy one in any context in which State rights and interests have been perceived to be involved, as no doubt they will be in this area- one wonders just how long this situation will continue to obtain. 
On the subject of this particular discretionary practice, which will continue for some unforeseeable future time, I mention that it has been very widely and, in my view, quite properly criticised. It can produce bizarre results, as indeed  Senator Sim  has pointed out. Especially is this the case when one has a situation in which partners have been long divorced- even more so when at least one of them has not remarried. As the Passport Act is now administered, and will continue to be administered in the foreseeable future, the consent of the other spouse is still required. 

 Senator Coleman drew to my attention the other day a case in Perth of which she had become aware, in which a couple had been divorced for some 10 or 15 years. The husband had remarried and had established a new family, wife and children. The ex-wife had not remarried but had gone into business on her own and this had involved considerable travel overseas. She had had her passport renewed three times and each time she had been obliged by the passport authorities in Perth to go back and dig out her former husband, to intrude embarrassingly on the new long-established, family circle, and get the necessary signature from him. It is an absurd situation and seems to be one that ought not to be allowed to continue. I make that point in the context of the more important general observation I make about the whole structure of the Bill- that discretionary practices of this kind are still perfectly capable of continuing. There is in the text of the legislation nothing which in any way confines the discretion as narrowly as the cosmetic aspects of this Bill would perhaps suggest. 
The second point that I make about the Bill is that there indeed may be a whole variety of conditions which the Minister, or the officers administering the Bill can require to be satisfied before a passport will be issued, conditions going especially to the nature of the information which much be supplied by the passport applicant. The 
Bill sets no limits at all on the nature of such information which may be required, or on any other conditions that must be satisfied before a passport will be issued. Some of these conditions can, of course, be very oppressive. Here I note specifically the point that has been the subject of much discussion in this debate about the condition which the Australian Government has continued to insist upon, namely, that applicants for passports should disclose their place of birth, which is in turn noted in the passport document itself. 
I really must repeat what has been said by other speakers on this subject. It is extraordinary that the Government has been so obdurate on the issue when faced with a case made out so articulately by a number of migrant groups in the community, to whom the matter is of special and great concern. In particular, it is interesting to note the way in which the Government, as my colleague  Senator Sibraa  has mentioned, has been so insensitive to the pleas of the Baltic community, to the needs of which, at election time anyway, the Government is notoriously so sensitive. 
Yes. 
Some countries simply will not admit people unless they identify themselves on an entry visa application or entry card at the port of arrival or additionally in their own passport as having been born in a particular place. We know how many countries there are, because that information has already been made available in another place. There are 15 or 17 such countries, including France, Germany, Italy, Turkey and Vietnam. I think that that information has been made available. 
I apologise to  Senator Knight.  The point is surely that if a person does not want to go to any one of those countries he should have the option of being able to avoid committing himself to giving that information, for good reasons, so far as some other country is concerned. The only answer that the Minister has been able to give in the other place in the course of his second reading speech, and in statements subsequently made, has been that it would be a disability if persons were not able to visit those countries. It is only a disability to the particular individual. If he is prepared to take that riskhaving been fully apprised of the nature of the disability in question and made fully aware of the number of countries where he will suffer that disability if he does not give this information at the relevant stage- I find great difficulty in understanding why this compulsory condition should continue to be imposed by the Australian passport authorities. 
-Please do. 
The honourable senator premises his question on the basis that such a person may then want to visit a country where such information must be disclosed. I say that the people who are making the point about a place of birth not being shown on their passport must accept realistically that that particular privilege will present difficulties to them elsewhere. I do not disagree that it is unrealistic to have people armed with multiple passports. It is unrealistic administratively for Australia to make multiple passports of that kind available. I am not suggesting for a moment that people with this preoccupation ought to be given that much consideration. All I am saying is that if their preoccupation with this issue is so strong or is so well founded to them in respect of the country that they want to visit, under those circumstances they ought to be given that option. I would have thought that to be entirely consistent with the kind of free enterprise ideology and personal initiative ideology that we are so constantly hearing about from the other side of this chamber. 
I understand the practicalities, but it seems to me that if someone has asked for a specific kind of passport without the place of birth being recorded and has been granted one, it is perfectly reasonable for the Government to say, provided that person has that sort of passport on the basis of full and accurate knowledge about the implications of that application: We are not going to issue you with another passport until the normal expiry time has elapsed '. It seems to me that that is the kind of administrative or practical penalty that one has to pay if one is going to have the benefit of this advantage. Of course, it would be much nicer if, by some international diplomatic arrangement, common standards were agreed upon which did not require this provision to be included on anybody's passport. That would obviously be the optimal solution, but pending that millennium it seems to me that the concerns of certain sections of the community can be satisfied provided that those sections of the community are prepared to accept certain consequential pains and penalties attached to that. That is the only point that I, at least, am trying to make. I do not think my colleagues on this side have been trying to push it any further. 
The third point that I want to make is one that again has been made by the previous speakers and can be put very briefly. There is no time limit specified in the legislation within which the Government, the Minister and the officers must respond to a passport application. There is no sanction if the authorities simply sit on a passport application and make that most familiar and comfortable of all bureaucratic decisions, namely, the non-decision. The Opposition proposes to require that these decisions be made within a period of 30 days after the application, taking the view as we do that it is only in this way that that peculiarly insidious form of bureaucratic obstruction can be flushed to the surface. It is only in this way that it will be impossible to hide what are, in fact, adverse decisions behind a smokescreen of purported bureaucratic inefficiency. 
The fourth matter which I want to raise deals with the language of some of the specific grounds for exception which are set out in the Bill, language which, in the view of the Opposition- in my view, at least- leaves much to be desired. May I mention first in this respect that part of the Bill which now deals with alleged criminals or persons perhaps suspected, if not having been convicted, of having committed some crime. We have been told that this is one traditional area of discretionary practice which is to be no longer pursued. In particular, suspected white collar criminals will no longer be refused the issue of a passport or have their existing passport revoked if their activities are merely under suspicion or investigation for corporate type crimes as has been the case in the past. This statement by the Government has inevitably provoked some suspicions around the place that the Liberal and Country Party coalition is once again being soft on its own. 
I for one do not have any difficulty with the notion that quite precise guidelines should be imposed here as elsewhere if persons are going to be denied their right to a passport and their right to freedom of movement. I am quite happy with the notion that there should not be an unfettered discretion to refuse a passport simply upon a suspicion which may or may not be wellfounded. What worries me about the language of the Bill as it stands at the moment and indeed the ministerial statement introducing it, is the degree of hyprocrisy which seems to me to surround this issue. As I understand it, under the text of the Bill, there need in practice be no really wellfounded suspicion at all before a person can be denied a passport. This is clear from the very text of the provision in clause 7b which makes one of the explicit grounds for refusal of a passport the fact that the officer in question has reason to believe that there is in force a warrant issued in Australia for the arrest of that person; not a warrant that has been executed, not a situation where a person has been arrested, but a situation where a warrant has been issued. 
Anyone who knows anything at all about criminal investigation practice in Australia will be aware of just how easy it is to get an arrest warrant sworn out and just how easy it is to get an arrest warrant even in the absence of any significant degree of legitimately held suspicion at all. Regrettably the issuing of arrest warrants, as with search warrants, is very much a formality, a rubber stamp affair, in Australia. This continues and will continue to be the case for as long as the Government refuses to implement the Criminal Investigation Bill which has been the subject of a good deal of comment in this chamber over the years. It is really nonsense, I would suggest, the notion that there is some serious criterion involved regarding arrrest warrants. More than that- I revert back to the general point that I made right at the outset- despite the way in which the language of this Bill is dressed up it inexorably follows from any careful reading of it that there is in any event a residual ministerial discretion to refuse a passport quite apart from the question of whether or not any of these specific grounds in proposed new clauses 7a, 7b, 7c, 7d and 7e of the Bill are satisfied. 
I would prefer, if there is to be a discretionary power vested in the Minister, firstly that that be properly articulated, acknowledged and not dressed up with the kind of smokescreen which we have in the presentation of this Bill, where it is suggested that a formerly wide discretion has now been confined within narrow statutory provisions. The second point that I would make is that if there is to be a general ministerial discretion operating in this area it ought to be stated in such a way that it is subject to quite elaborate guidelines in terms of particular situations and contexts in which that ministerial discretion can be exercised; and further, that it should be explicitly subject to appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. If the Government can satisfy those sorts of conditions I would not object to there being some residual degree of ministerial discretion operating in this area because I am well aware, as all honourable senators are and no doubt  Senator Young  is, of the difficulty of anticipating all the situations in advance that might justify the refusal to issue or the revocation of a passport. What concerns me is the way in which statements have been made about intended practice or about the actual likely operation of this Bill or what this Bill requires or demands which is not justified by careful reading of it. One can see, when one puts aside the superficial appearance of the legislation, that one is left with exactly the same old range of ministerial discretion that we had in the past. 
Turning to the final example I want to mention of specific language in the Bill, even this specific language in some of these clauses is enormously wide in its potential scope. I refer to the proposed new clause 7E where one of the specific grounds upon which an authorised officer can refuse a passport is a situation where the Minister has formed the opinion that if an Australian passport were issued to the person, the person would be likely to engage in conduct outside Australia that might, among other things, disrupt public order in the country or would endanger the health or welfare of persons in a country other than Australia. It seems to me that the grounds upon which that opinion can be formed about disruption of public order and endangering the health or welfare and so on are potentially enormously wide. It is no great caricature to say that this sort of statutory language could be applied with a great deal of accuracy to most end of season football trips leaving Australia where the capacity for disruption, loutishness and general barbarism of behaviour that sometimes attends these sort of occasions- 
I speak, as always, for my own code. It is such as to arguably justify the application of that kind of criteria. It is just another example of the kinds of difficulties one gets into when one uses language like this. It is unhappy in security legislation and in criminal legislation, and equally unhappy in legislation referring to a matter as important as passports. The final point I want to make about the difficulties associated with this Bill is this: The vagueness of the specific exceptions, which are set out, and the existence of this residual general discretion in the Minister do make it crucial that there be some opportunity to test impartially the use of both bureaucratic and ministerial exercises of discretion by appeals to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. 
It seems to me, and the Opposition, that this Bill, which fails to make provision for any such appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, is yet another demonstration of what a hollow facade that whole vaunted new administrative law has become. Two years after the event we are still waiting for the proclamation of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act which would enable judicial review of the exercise of bureaucratic and administrative decisions of the kind that are provided for in this Bill. Despite a series of questions over recent months by  Senator Button,  myself and others in this chamber there is still no indication whatsoever from the Government as to when that piece of legislation will be proclaimed. Referring to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal itself, we still have a state of affairs whereby that Tribunal is coasting along with an absolute minimum of jurisdiction, where there is still an acute resistance, with each new piece of legislation or subordinate legislation that comes through this Parliament being vested in that Tribunal. We are still getting no information as to what jurisdiction is to be vested in that Tribunal. 
I raised this issue during the Estimates debates in May this year and again in the recent series of Estimates debates. It is still impossible to get any indication of just how seriously the Government is committed to using this glorious piece of machinery which has been set up. When one sees important matters in legislation like this without any provision for redress or appeal to the administrative appeals machinery one cannot be blamed for thinking that this Government's commitment to the whole business of administrative law reform is about as empty as every other Government promise. We are left with something rather like the Cheshire cat- there is absolutely nothing left but the grin, and that grin is starting to look a little thin-lipped. 
The passport issuing area is just one of those really crucial areas of civil liberty which are a test of any government's sincerity and credibility. I readily acknowledge that the whole business of passport issuing is something which the Whitlam Labor Government, as  Senator Carrick  no doubt will be tempted to say as he always does in reply, should have got around to, along with a number of other things that it did try to do. It is a test of any government's sincerity to properly come to grips with and tackle matters of this kind. It was an area which was ripe for reform. If this legislation is a test of this Government's sincerity about civil liberties in the area of the freedom of movement, it is a test which this Government has manifestly failed. There has been a very obvious concern to be seen to be doing something, but that concern has simply- in my view- masked the reality that beneath this brand new sparkling piece of legislation absolutely nothing has changed. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Has the Minister seen the report in this morning's Melbourne  Age  that  Mr Rupert  Murdoch is presently engaged in an attempt to acquire a controlling interest in ATV Channel 0 in Melbourne? Has the Minister also had drawn to his attention page 266 of the transcript of the Channel 10 licence hearing in Sydney on 26 July this year when, in answer to a question from me, representing the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Murdoch  explicitly denied that he had any intention at all to take over Channel 0 Melbourne? Will the Government allow  Mr Murdoch  to pursue his apparent ambitions with respect to Channel 0 by open market purchases with the same flagrant indifference to the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act as he had in the Channel 10 Sydney matter, or will the Government take action to ensure that the anti-monopoly provisions of that legislation are in this instance properly observed? 
-No system of justice, whether it is industrial justice or any other kind, can operate without the confidence of those who have to administer it. It is manifest that the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill just does not have the confidence of those who are part of our conciliation and arbitration system. For a start, it is obvious that the Bill does not have the confidence or the acceptance of the 25 commissioners of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. They are the people who, it must be remembered, are more or less equally representative of governments, employees and trade unions and who in their appointment have been the product of consultation and acceptance- one among the other- of each of those groups. Twenty of those commissioners were appointees of Liberal and National Country Party governments. The 25 commissioners have communicated in terms which make their position unequivocally clear. They are unwilling to accept this legislation. It is obvious, further, that the Bill certainly does not have the approval of at least one  Deputy President, Mr Justice  Staples and, moreover, of a number of other  deputy  presidents who met with  Sir John  Moore this afternoon. 
It is evident from  Sir John  Moore's willingness to communicate and consult tonight with the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  that  Sir John  Moore has reservations, difficulties and an unhappiness over this legislation and about how he is to administer and work with it in the face of hostility from his commissioners. It is obvious from the public statements of  Sir Richard  Kirby, probably the most respected  President  that the Commission has ever had, that he is most unhappy not only with the legality but also with the morality and principles that lie behind this legislation. Under those circumstances it is extraordinarily insensitive, to say the least, fo r the Government to have proceeded with this legislation. If it were serious about improving what are genuinely and sincerely perceived to be deficiencies in the present conciliation and arbitration system, if it genuinely wanted to improve the administration of industrial justice within that system, then one would have thought that its first port of call would have been consultation with the justices and the commissioners who make up the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It should have done that not just as a matter of good faith but as a matter of plain common sense since those justices and commissioners are the ones who have to administer this system. They are the ones in whose interest presumably in the first instance the streamlining of that system is to take place. 
The protestations of the Government that what it is really about in this legislation is the genuine improvement of the system become very hollow indeed when one appreciates- as has become so evident in recent days- that it did not originally seek advice from anyone in the Commission and that it was disposed initially to reject out of hand the criticism which it was receiving from a number of members of that commission. It is only now when the whole matter has become the subject of acute political embarrassment that the Government is going through the motions of listening to that criticism which is now being forwarded. How can we believe that the Government is seriously committed to the improvement of the system and the correction of manifest deficiencies in it when not only has it treated the business of consultation with the judges and the commissioners in this way, but also when- as has been pointed out in the course of this debate, but which needs repeating- it has not consulted the unions which are so closely involved in this process. It did not consult them in that it brought forward the proposals for this legislation at the National Labour Consultative Council, at a time when it well knew that the peak union councils would not be represented because they were protesting about a specific failure of the Government to communicate and consult with them on  the proclamation of another very controversial piece of legislation. 
How can we take seriously the Government's protestations that this legislation is wellintentioned and sincere when we know how it forced the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill through the House of Representatives with gag after gag being applied and with the Minister for Industrial Relations not deigning to reply to more than one of the points that were raised in criticism of the Bill during the Committee stage of the debate? Finally, how can we take seriously the Government's protestations about its sincerity in bringing forward this Bill when we note the way it has responded to the criticism it has received from  Mr Justice  Staples? How can we take seriously its protestations when we note the way in which it has responded to the reasoned criticisms and arguments of  Mr Justice  Staples which have been acknowledged as such by journals as respectable as the  Australian Financial Review!  Rather than responding in a reasoned way to those criticisms, the Government through the Ministers most immediately concerned- they include the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  who is sitting across the chamber here tonight- has responded by the worst kind of personal vilification and denigration of  Mr Justice  Staples. The Government has responded in a way that has dragged  Mr Justice  Staples' reputation through the dust. It has responded by leaking to the Press a proposal that the removal of  Mr Justice  Staples from office was being contemplated. This kind of reaction was totally inappropriate to the kind of reasoned document that was received from  Mr Justice  Staples. Perhaps it is best proven to this chamber by the incorporation in  Hansard  of this famous document, the letter of  Mr Justice  Staples. I now seek leave to have the letter incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows: 

AUSTRALIAN CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION COMMISSION 
Chambers, Law Courts Building Queens Square Sydney, 2000 28 September 1979 
CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION AMENDMENT BILL 1979 
I circulate to members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission some comments on the proposed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act introduced into the House of Representatives by the Minister for Industrial Relations on Thursday, 20 September 1979. 
The amendments have been produced under conditions of secrecy not appropriate in a law-making field in which the prime concern is and should remain the conciliation of conflicting interests. 
It appears that the Department of Industrial Relations played no part in the drafting of the amendments, that no member of this Commission was consulted and no trade union or employer or peak council representing employees or employers was consulted. 
The Minister, in his second reading speech claimed that the "initial proposals" (but not, apparently, the final proposals) were shown to some persons present at the National Labour Consultative Council, but he admits that no trade union representatives were present at that meeting. He does not claim that those "initial proposals" were forwarded to the trade union representatives who were entitled to be at the meeting, or left in the possession of the employers' representatives present. He does not claim that the final proposals were shown to any member of the National Labour Consultative Council or to the Council as a whole. Nor does he offer any reason for his failure to take the final proposals to the Council before their introduction into the legislative process. Urgency, if it is ever an excuse for hasty legislating, is not a factor discernible here. 
Considerations of courtesy to this Commission warranted consultation with ourselves if only because the amendments can be construed by uncharitable minds as insulting to the integrity of the Commission as a whole and to certain particular members of it whose decisions are part of the background of the proposed changes. 
Some notice of the "initial proposals" was given to members of the Government parties some weeks ago under conditions of privacy and confidentiality. Persons privy to this disclosure were not permitted to retain the text distributed. Each was required to surrender the same before leaving the place of meeting. "The Government (was) keeping the legislation under tight raps. Copies were collected at the end of Tuesday night's meeting and backbenchers were asked to regard the briefing as confidential."  (Age,  31 August 1979) 
Law making by these methods is antipathetic to the best procedures open to be pursued in a democratic society. They deny the search for consensus and the accommodation of conflicting interests. Laws made in such circumstances are not likely to gather up broad assent and respect which it may be desired to put in place of the temptation to resort to force. 
Law reform is often proposed on two grounds: 
Firstly, it may have the purpose to restate in more concrete and substantive manner values which are not obtaining expression in the decisions of persons, judges or administrators. So, a rule must be stated or restated so that its intendment may not be avoided in its application in particular cases. Secondly, law reform is often directed to procedural questions. Most commonly, procedural changes are proposed so as to simplify and expedite, with a reduction in cost, delay and complexity, the trial of issues of fact and law. Procedural reforms set the quality and import of the substantive rules of law. It has been said that the substantive law is secreted in the interstices of procedure'. 
Measured by these considerations the present Bill is not reform: it is reaction. It introduces complexity and delay. It is not argued that the procedural changes are required in order to achieve expedition and economy in the trial of issues. Such a contention would fall before a timeconsuming, cost-incurring, delay-provoking system of resorting to Full Benches on issues which have hitherto been dealt with by one person under the sanction of an appeal procedure (which is now in practice to be broadly removed wilh all its benefits taken away). 
The denial of the right of appeal is a step backwards. I take the liberty of reproducing what I wrote in a recent Full Bench decision: 
Institutions such as ours, however, should be structured so as not to afford even the appearance of arbitrariness of judgment, fickleness of decision or other waywardness. That is why an appeal tribunal is put here behind the arbitrator within reach of a dissatisfied party. Law systems that do not provide opportunities for appeal invite suspicion. Thus, the existence of the opportunity to appeal may serve from time to time to condition the manner and the terms in which a decision is brought down. The presence of an appeal tribunal gives confidence to parties to enter into a procedure having a binding result. A decision is more authoritative if it has been confirmed on appeal; it may sometimes fetch authority precisely because it has not been appealed. ' (B.W.I.U. and the State Electricity Commission of Victoria, 1 1 May 1979-Print E39. 
The Bill proposes to require Commissioners to consult with Presidential members in certain circumstances, in a smoke-filled back room, as it were, to deal with the interests of absent parties. In every sense this proposal deprecates the competence and integrity of Commissioners. They are directed to submit their will and their judgment in the discharge of an office (in which they have given their oath "faithfully and impartially to perform the duties of that office ") to the overriding determination of another. 
The evil of this proposal is that it can only shake the confidence of parties before a Commissioner in the integrity of any ruling to which he ultimately puts his hand. No party knowing that a Commissioner reserves his decision and submits it to another can have sure confidence that he will report each party's case accurately to the Presidential member or that the Presidential member will accurately understand that party's case. The understanding may be conditioned by the manner in which the Commissioner sees fit, in all good faith, to present it. 
The Minister justifies this astonishing departure from established standards of behaviour by claiming that there is a complex range of awards and agreements within the jurisdiction of the Commission. He argues that "this very fact demands consistency of principle and decision making . . . there have been some occasions when such consistency has been lacking." One is entitled to wonder when it came about that identical dollar sums alone may manifest consistency of principle and why a discrepancy in dollar sums manifests a want of principle. 
What is the principle that the Minister contends for? Is it lock-step mechanical judgment in the face of all the circumstances of a case? Is the only decision correct which comes first in time? ls the only decision correct which makes the most modest draft upon the resources of an employer? Is it right that a matter be resolved not by reference to its own facts but by force of other facts established by other persons between other parties? What do we have an appeal procedure for? 
No person need fear that I will deal with the interests of parties whom I have not heard in open court. I will prefer to be a member of a panel of one or, if this is not convenient, to require that any consultation take place in open court with the parties present by way of a rehearing. 
I would by this act out the values expressed by the Privy Council in the Boilermakers' Case 95 C.L.R. S29 at 544: "The same qualities of fairness, patience and courtesy should be exhibited by conciliator, arbitrator or judge alike . . . none of them should act without hearing both sides of the case." It would be inconceivable that the community would tolerate judges acting in the manner enjoined of Commissioners and Presidential members by the Bill. 
Clause 6 of the Bill deals with stand-downs. It sanctions one of the great evils that beset the judicial process from time to time, namely, the manoeuvring of parties to select the judge of their cause. Where an applicant for a stand-down finds success in doubt he may have another court as of right (even after a matter has been reserved for decision) and thereby not only does he shed one judge but he deprives his opponent of a right of appeal against the decision taken at first instance. Moreover, an exercise expressed to be directed to expedition is thereby beset with delay. 
Further, the second court is permitted to take short cuts without the consent of the parties by having regard to evidence given and arguments adduced in the previous attempt at a trial at first instance. 
Time lost through industrial action. 
The Minister in his second reading speech described his amendments in terms of 'time lost' and 'industrial action'. It is to be noted that 'industrial action' embraces conduct not involving a strike, e.g. bans. Such bans do not necessarily involve any loss of working time. Nonetheless they may attract the amendment. To the extent that the Minister adopted the phrase 'time lost' he has not stated accurately what is embraced by the proposal, which is directed to claims in respect of a period during which the employees are engaged in industrial action'. This need not necessarily have involved the loss of time as in a strike. The claim may arise in a period in which work was done. The Minister seeks to enrich employers by saving them from paying for what is done. 
This amendment seeks to defeat the common law and to deny employees access to this Commission in the interest of employers. It can only serve to depreciate the status of this Commission in the eyes of the millions of employees who contribute by their taxes to its support, for it is proposed to forbid members of the Commission to attempt to prevent and settle by conciliation and arbitration industrial disputes. 
It occurs under the same speech in which the Minister complains that some unions have failed to bring their disputes to the Commission and have 'rejected the proper processes for settling their disputes'. Yet here there is a denial of all process for settling a dispute. 
Other members of the Commission have mentioned to me cases in which they have given decisions which they believe would be caught by the amendment. I wish to add to the count a ruling I gave in a dispute between the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists and The Australian Postal Commission on 26 April 1979 (Print D9961)-a ruling which provoked a certain displeasure in high places at the time. It was a 'no work no pay case. In the particular case an employee had carried out 99.999 per cent of his duties, omitting one of trifling significance as a work task but of monstrous import to the bureaucratic mind, for by reason of a union ban he had declined to sign a document which was otherwise authentic, complete and accurate, lacking merely his mark. He had performed in every other respect his duties faithfully and well but for none of it would the employer pay him. It was plain to me that the employer had requested implicitly, if not explicitly, the doing of the work for which it would not pay. Inter alia, I had this to say on the 'work-on but no pay' principle: 
My understanding of the law and the position is perfectly clear. A servant has certain entitlements of his master and he has certain duties towards his master. If the contract of employment requires of the servant that he should perform certain duties then a refusal by the servant to perform those duties provides an option to the employer. 
Where a servant declines to perform a task within the duties contemplated by the contract of service the employer may treat the contract as being at an end. It is voidable at his option; he may, if he wishes, dismiss the servant; he may, if he wishes, ignore the refusal. But he is not entitled to take the benefit of services rendered by the employee, by the servant, without paying a fair price for them. It may be that the price that is deemed fair and which ought to be paid by the master to his servant for such services as the master accepts, explicitly or implicitly, from the servant ought not to be remunerated by reference to the amount due if the service that is refused were given and taken into account. In other words, a fair price for the service that is rendered by the servant may not be one that is determined by reference to the wage due in the ordinary circumstance, but it does not follow that a fair wage for services that are offered and accepted may be refused out of hand. The master is under a duty to pay for what he accepts from his servant. The master, however, has another resort and that is to sue the servant for damages if he declines to dismiss him, and he may recover damages from the servant simply for the mere refusal to carry out the full intent of the bargain. The mere breach of the contract gives rise immediately to a right to nominal damages arising from the fact of the breach. Whether the master is entitled to recover damages that are not nominal but, indeed, are substantive is a question that needs to be determined by reference to the loss suffered by the master as the result of the breach. 
In the present case the position taken by Australia Post is 'We will accept the servant and we are accepting the service '. Indeed, it has been represented to me that they actually threatened someone against withdrawing service, or more accurately, perhaps, required of that person that he should actually continue to render service and not go home, although he was on no pay. 
It is not conceivable to me that any authority can be found in the common law which will support a result that the Postal Commission is entitled to take the services without payment on the facts that I have been dealing with here. The Postal Commission, one would have thought, consistent with its being a creature of statute law would at least seek to justify its position by argument about the consequences of the common law rules. However, here they seek to evade the obligations that may appear to be cast upon them by the common law by arguing that in this tribunal there is no jurisdiction to deal with the matter, and further they put that the employee if dissatisfied can take them to law in another place. 
Let me just put the position as I see it. Every citizen in this community has a duty to adhere to the rules of law and has no privilege to escape his obligations by reason merely that he has not been ordered by a court to carry out that which the law prescribes, just as I have a duty to conform to the rules of law as I understand them to be and am bound to do my best to carry them out without the command of a court. 
In my view the Australian Postal Commission, being a creature of the parliament, is acting inconsistently with the public's interest in the upholding of the law if they decline to act out the rules of law of their own volition and sit pat waiting until someone sues them in a court properly vested with the jurisdiction to make the orders appropriate in the circumstances. People should volunteer to obey the law, the Australian Postal Commission should volunteer to obey the law, and the law includes not only the statutes but the rules of common law; in this case, contrary to what one would expect of a great statutory corporation, we find people sitting pat and asking others not nearly as equally placed as they are to call on the courts in their aid if they have a complaint. 
Not only in my view is the Postal Commission at law misconducting itself on the facts revealed to me, but they are misconducting themselves in that they are seeking to impose a situation of total inequality upon their employees. In my view, the proper position for Australia Post to take up at this time is to pay the employees and then sue the employees at law if Australia Post feel the law is on its side. The resources available to Australia Post to conduct litigation on its own initiative are infinitely greater than are the resources of ordinary employees, and if the law is on its side and it is justified in pursuing the line of conduct it would lead to the consequence that Australia Post should do the right thing and pay these people for the work taken from them, and if it feels it has suffered a loss that goes beyond nominal damages, it can sue to recover the losses'. 
It is proposed in Clause 8 to empower the  President  to take a matter out of the hands of a member of the Commission which is actively before him if he is of the opinion that there are 'special reasons' to justify his so doing. What considerations, one is entitled to ask, constitute 'special reasons '. A definition would be peculiarly appropriate here. 
Nothing is more calculated to strike at the independence and authority of any member of the Commission than that he be under threat of becoming disentitled to act if he does not please. By what corridor of power may complainants hope to reach the ear of the  President  and to induce him to defrock a colleague? What pressures may we expect to be brought against a recalcritant  President  if he fails to respond to insinuations, subtle or overt, against one judge in favour of another? How will the  President  satisfy himself that there are special reasons'? With whom is he to consult? With the parties? Severally, or altogether, or shall strangers be consulted? Or shall the  President  be left to act with all the appearance of caprice? 
The power to remove a matter before a member of the Commission from his hands falls somewhere near a power already in the Act (s. 23 (3)), under which Presidential members may allocate work to members of the panel who are bound to comply with the directions of the Presidential member. There is no basis for concluding that the power of a Presidential member to organise and allocate the work of a member of this panel permits what is here proposed. I had occasion, not so long ago, to give a direction to a member of my panel not to take any step in a matter which had been previously under his active attention, and which came before me in his absence. My direction gave rise to certain misunderstandings. 
The member of my panel affected was away on vacation when a matter was notified to me and was urgent. When it was last before my colleague certain recommendations he had made had been rejected. The matter had been stood over generally. When it blew up again, I conferred privately with the parties, I gained a strong impression that a manoeuvre was on foot, notwithstanding the urgency of the matter and the absence of my colleague, to delay a further hearing in the Commission until he returned and became available. I had the strong impression that this manoeuvre was founded on two considerations- firstly, to ensure that I did not hear the matter and secondly, to ensure that my colleague did. To put a short word on what I believed to be going on, some persons were intent on selecting the judge of their cause. I gave the direction, of which I immediately informed the parties, without explanation, in order to make it perfectly plain that I would not permit it to appear that outsiders could influence the procedures of this Commission. Whether the particular means I chose to quash the ambitions that I detected were politic is a matter that others may question. It was not my purpose to act against my colleague's stature, rather to uphold his and mine and the independence of the Commission. This amendment strikes at the concept of judicial independence. 
Moreover, the amendment curtails a provision in the Act which is intended to serve the interest that justice shall appear to be done. Section 22 provides that where a member of the Commission has exercised powers with respect to conciliation he shall not participate in an arbitration, if there is an objection. 
Under this proposal the  President  is free to attempt a conciliation and thereafter to impose an arbitration at his will. So much for the spirit of s. 22 (2). 
It is proposed in Clause 16 to empower a Full Bench to make relevant declaration where it is satisfied that two persons have been in the past engaged in industrial action (e.g. a ban) which has had a substantial adverse effect on the welfare of part of the community. 
The declaration may rest upon the losses alleged to have been incurred by shareholders. Such persons are 'part of the community'. The system is not limited to present or future situations and would not be any more acceptable if it were. 
One of the key practices of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes is to dissolve trade unions and to put puppets in their place. This legislation provides for precisely that possibility. 
The amendment is framed so as to manoeuvre this Commission into providing respectability for an exercise which is essentially reactionary and under which this Commission may be rendered perfectly superfluous if it is riot willing to be an instrument of the Government's will in a particular case. We have already seen a number of examples recently where the present Government's will has been declared to have been thwarted by the decisions of this Commission. So, amendments have been brought into the Act and are now proposed again for the Act in order to promote the authority of the Government over our deliberations. Under this amendment, if the Government can empower the Commission to make a declaration it can, as well, amend the law  so  that it may proceed without the need for our declaration. We shall be left with the power only so long as we exercise it to the pleasure of the Government. 
One could write a treatise on the unconstitutionality of this proposal taken as a whole. It is not a proposal to prevent and settle industrial disputes by conciliation and arbitration. Its purpose is to proceed to put an end to relevant industrial action by Government harassment, oppression and expropriation. Furthermore, a choice is given to the Government either to cancel registration or to set at nought the rights of a particular employee. By stripping a man of his civil rights, he becomes to that extent an outlaw. It is not to the point to clothe this diminution of status under the misleading phrase suspension'. A man at any point of time is either within or without the law. This proposal seeks power to put a man outside the law and to do it withal by executive act. 
Who wishes to co-operate in Full Benches trying such applications? Whether or not the jurisdiction is left in our hands by the High Court, which of us in any event would want to be like the judges in pre-war Germany who simply acted out their office in a train of events that culminated in legal conclusions that 'Jews' and 'Communists' were no longer full citizens entitled to rely on rights previously accumulated, that is to say, were persons who could be struck down by a mere executive act. 
I am opposed to the amendments one and all and I would wish that my colleagues were, too. We shall be lesser men and women and of lesser use to the community as a whole if they become law. 
F. STAPLES DEPUTY PRESIDENT 
For the moment, I do not wish to deal in detail with any part of that letter. I simply put it to the chamber and the honourable senators on the other side who are disposed to treat this matter seriously that any fair and reasonable perusal of that letter will demonstrate the sincerity and the force of the arguments that are put foward in opposition to this legislation and will demonstrate the complete contemptibility - no lesser word is appropriate- of the Government's reaction to that reasoned criticism. How illustrative it is of the Government's confidence in its arguments. How illustrative it is of the  justitification  of the case the Government mounts in defence of this legislation that it has responded in this way. Rather than by giving a reasoned criticism, it has responded in a way which one would expect of a government that is writhing with embarrassment about what it now appreciates to have been a serious political mistake in bringing this legislation forward at all. It is simply seeking to get out of that embarrassment by scoring cheap political points wherever it can. 
In the process of trying to score some cheap political points at the expense of  Mr Justice  Staples, the Government has got itself into very considerable hot water. It is going to be in rather hotter water when this matter is debated further tomorrow in the other place, as I have no doubt it will be, than has so far been acknowledged. I refer to the events which have transpired this evening and to which passing attention was paid by  Senator Douglas  McClelland in his speech. A very clear contradiction emerged between the statement made by the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  in the other place today at Question Time and what has been said on the radio program  PM  this evening in response to that statement by the Minister. Let me quote from the  Hansard  greens what  Mr Street  said in the Parliament today when asked by the honourable member for Parramatta,  Mr John  Brown, whether the Minister stood by his earlier statement that he through his office had checked with  PM to  find out whether it had a copy of the letter from  Mr Justice  Staples. In answer to that question  Mr Street  said that he did confirm and repeat what he had said previously. He told the Parliament: 
My staff did check with the program  PM  and it confirmed that it had a copy. 
The significance of this and  Mr Street  's insistence about the checking and his understanding that  PM  did possess a copy of the letter in question is that this is the rationale and the basis upon which  Mr Street  then proceeded to issue to the Press, to the world at large, this confidential communication from  Mr Justice  Staples. I repeat what  Mr Street  said in the Parliament this afternoon: 
My staff did check with the program  PM  and it confirmed that it had a copy. 
Tonight  PM,  through Geoff Duncan, the Canberra correspondent, stated as follows: 
Just to set the record straight, at the time we went to air on Thursday evening and broke the story of  Mr Justice  Staples letter,  PM  did not have a copy of that letter. We had sighted a copy and had been able to confirm its authenticity. After the broadcast our Canberra office was approached by a member of  Mr Street's  staff and a member of the Canberra press gallery for a copy of the letter. They were told that we did not have a copy - 
I repeat: 
They were told that we did not have a copy- 
The statement continued: that we were seeking to obtain one to enable us to quote directly from it, for a report to be broadcast the following morning on  AM.  At no stage did our Canberra office inform  Mr Street's  office that a copy was in our possession and no contact was made to our Melbourne office from where the broadcast emanated, to establish whether a copy was being held there. 
The clearest possible contradiction has now emerged between what  Mr Street  claimed in the Parliament this afternoon and what has been claimed or stated or asserted to be the truth by the radio program  PM  tonight. Someone is telling fibs. I will go further than that and say that there is prima facie ground for believing that  Mr Street,  the Minister for Industrial Relations, has lied to this Parliament. 
In deference to the Chair,  Mr President,  I withdraw that statement and substitute the proposition that there is prima facie evidence that  Mr Street's  commitment to the truth in this matter was something less than obsessional. I now move on to say that the truth of this matter - 
There is some truth at least somewhere in this debate. The truth about this legislation is that everything about it is wrongits timing, its motivation, its content and its constitutionality. It was introduced in circumstances which make it impossible to believe that it was a sincere attempt to rectify wrongs which had clearly emerged in the administration of industrial justice. Rather, it is obvious from the circumstances in which it was introduced and the way in which it has been conducted subsequently that it is just another demonstration of this Government's insatiable appetite for industrial provocation and its incredible capacity for dredging the bottom of the legislative barrel to find something, anything, that will provoke the union movement into the kind of reaction that the Government shortsightedly thinks will be politically advantageous to it. 
During the lifetime of this Government this has happened over and over again. It happened initially with the enactment of section 45D of the Trade Practices Act, with the unparalleled introduction of sanctions and penalties into an area hitherto quite untouched by them. It happened with the amendment of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act two years ago which savagely increased the scope of the penalties and the punitive powers in that legislation. It happened with the introduction of the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act which introduced into the public sector arena provisions for stand-down, suspension and dismissal of employees engaging in any form of industrial action without any significant safeguards to their rights. It happened with the further amendments last year to section 45D of the Trade Practices Act to further enhance and widen the scope of that obnoxious piece of industrial legislation. It happened earlier this year with the enactment and proclamation of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Act, making provision, as it does, for the compulsory retirement and redeployment of public sector employees in circumstances where their rights and privileges are hopelessly without safeguards. 
In many ways, this Bill is the worst of them all in this Government's obnoxious industrial record. The reason it is the worst of them all is that it combines two things: On the one hand there is the usual familiar crude union bashing that we have become used to with earlier legislation which is most evident in the deregistration provisions of the legislation now before us. On the other hand, combined with that, we have a number of subtler provisions in this legislation. 
These are provisions which are aimed at the perversion of the whole conciliation and arbitration process itself. They are aimed at the destruction of the independence of that system, the erosion of its credibility, the undermining of its selfrespect, and the creation of opportunities for insidious government manipulation of that system for its own purposes. 
Debate interrupted. 
I said last night that this legislation, the Conciliation and 
Arbitration Amendment Bill 1979, is not only a crude piece of union bashing of the kind which has become all too familiar during this Government's term of office but also that it represents a more subtle attempt to undermine the status and authority of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and reduce it to a kind of cipher for the implementation of Government policy. Nothing which has emerged from the Ministerial statement which was tabled this morning about the meeting between the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  and  Sir John  Moore leads me to withdraw that assessment. It seems that there has been an exchange of views- as the diplomats would describe itbetween the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and  Mr Street.  The  President  of the Commission has stated the concerns and fears that his members have about this legislation. Through  Mr Street  the Government has responded by asserting that those concerns and fears are unfounded. There is no indication in the statement that we heard today that the assurances and assertions of the Minister were in fact regarded as satisfactory and accepted by  Sir John  Moore. The statement put down may have been, in a sense, an agreed statement, but it was not an agreed statement which contained any explicit suggestion that  Sir John  Moore had accepted the assurances that were given to him by the Minister or that  Sir John  Moore was thereby withdrawing his or his commissioners' objections to the legislation. The situation has not changed. The reality of the matter is that there are still fundamental objections to this legislation, in particular to the consultative provisions in it, which have been the subject of most attention, and they have not been in any way overridden or undermined by the recent course of events. 
I now turn to deal with the various provisions of the Bill. If one looks for a start at the consultative provisions one will see the requirement that a commissioner consult with a deputy president of the Commission before bringing down anything in the nature of an award variation. If consultation is to mean simply, as we have been assured over and over again by the Minister and Government spokesmen, an exchange of views and information, as it were, between the commissioner and the deputy president and the Commissioner, if it is not meant or proposed to amount to some substantive new procedure, if it is not proposed to create some substantial new obligation on the individual commissioner not only to consult with the deputy president but in fact to accept explicit specific guidance from him, if it is not to do any of those things and is simply a legislative implementation of the kind of tea and muffins chat notion that we have been told it is by the Minister, then why is it being introduced into this Bill at this time? 
We have been told it is being introduced because there have been examples of inconsistency of decision by individual commissioners from the general tenor of the Commission's approach in the past. Surely that acknowledgement, that assertion, that giving of a reason by the Government is support for the claim that the Opposition and the individual commissioners have been making. The Government's objection to those earlier cases of variation from the norm was not that there had been no consultation as such; the nub of its objection and concern about this was not to the failure of consultation as such,- if indeed there was a failure of consultation- but rather the actual substantive decision made by Commissioner Deverall and the other individual commissioners whose judgments have been called into question by the Government in defending this legislation. It is obvious that this consultative provision in the legislation, which is intended to be a consultative provision on its surface, amounts in practice and in substance to something more than that. As such, it is a provision which is objectionable. It is bad in legal principle if this is to be the nature of the obligation that is imposed because, as has been said by numerous speakers, particularly in the debate in the other place, you would then have a person who had not heard the arguments in a particular matter participating, de facto, in the decision, in the resolution of that matter. Again, it is bad in constitutional principle. 
The implementation of a provision of this kind would represent a clear shift from the operation of this legislation, and the constitutional provision on which it is founded, as being directed to the conciliation and arbitration of individual cases. It would represent a shift, a twist which this Government has been trying so hard in so many ways to accomplish, towards making the Arbitration Commission simply an agency, an implementor of Government economic policy, with the decisions of individual commissioners being called into question to the extent that they vary from the norms laid down by the Government in the pursuit of its own wrong headed economic policy. I regard it as incompatible with the whole constitutional position of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, as it has evolved over the last 70 or 80 years, for the position of individual commissioners to be forced into that particular mould in the way which the Government is intending. 
It is bad, of course, so far as the authority of individual commissioners is concerned and in terms of the respect that henceforth they will be able to command from the parties who appear before them. How can they expect to retain the respect and credibility that they need in order to perform their function if the parties know that the individual commissioner has no decision making role of his own but has to run off to his appropriate  deputy president,  if, indeed, the matter is not taken from him by the  President  himself- I will come to that in a moment- before he can bring down a decision in any particular case? Finally, insofar as the procedures of the Commission are concerned, it is bad for the speedy resolution of disputes. Faced with this obligation and given the disparate and scattered nature of the commissioners and  deputy  presidents round Australia and the difficulty with job inspections and so on of contacting people and getting people together even over the telephone at short notice, it is obvious that this will represent a whole new procedural hindrance and obstacle to the effective resolution of industrial disputes. For all of those reasons, those consultative provisions are objectionable. 
But the consultative provisions are not the only provisions of the Bill, although they are the ones that have attracted the most attention. Let me take the Senate through some of the others. The second area that the Bill focuses on is the conferring of a power in the  President  of the Commission to take a matter entirely out of the hands of some individual member of the Commission in order either to deal with it himself or to enable it to be referred to and dealt with by a Full Bench. At the moment, under the existing operation of the Act in terms of both its formal provisions and its informal operations, there are a number of avenues and ways in which the  President  can exercise a degree of supervisory and coordinating control. He can exercise it by way of the determination by him of the composition of the various panels in the Commission at any given time. He can help to shape it in terms of his allocation of particular cases. He can help to shape it in terms of his own availability for consultation with individual commissioners. Moreover, in addition to those informal considerations, it is the case that appeal provisions exist whereby matters can in that way be brought before the Full Bench. Indeed, even before a matter is resolved and reaches the stage of any decision being made about it, there is provision in the present Act for matters to be referred to the Full 
Bench if they satisfy certain threshold public interest criteria. 
Why is it necessary to go further than that? Why is it necessary to go as far as this legislation now proposes? Why is it necessary to put into legislative form provisions like this which amount, quite apart from anything else, to such an obvious and direct humiliation of all the nonpresidential members of the Commission, all the  deputy  presidents and everyone else except the  President  himself? Why is it necessary to vest this vast range of additional powers in the President? Why is it necessary to do so in particular when one considers that in order for him to be able to exercise these powers properly, he would need to be something of an industrial superman, not only physically in terms of the numbers of eyes, ears, arms and legs he would have to have in order to be able simultaneously even to begin to monitor the potential trouble spots round the nation within his jurisdiction, but also in terms of the discretion and the sensitivity that he would need to exercise in order to ensure that the personal jurisdiction that it is proposed to vest in him did not get completely out of hand. 
It may be that those talents are all there now in the person of  Sir John  Moore. It may be that he is an industrial superman of this kind in terms of his tact, sensitivity, sensibility and physical stamina. It may be that that could have been said also of  Sir Richard  Kirby, his predecessor as  President  of the Commission. But will it be the same again always for the future? What would happen if some political appointment were made by this Government to replace  Sir John  Moore? What would happen if as has been mooted- God help us- someone like the present  Speaker  of the other place were to become the new  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? How much tact, sensitivity and discretion could one expect in the operation of these jurisdictional provisions under those circumstances? The real difficulty with these presidential discretion provisions is the enormous discretion and the enormous opportunity for political manipulation of cases before the Commission that they vest in the presidential authority. I think the argument was best stated by  Mr Justice  Staples in- as inevitably is the case with  Mr Justice  Staples- a fairly colourful passage in his now famous letter but one which nonetheless strikes very exactly at the point in issue when he said: 
Nothing is more calculated to strike at the independence and authority of any member of the Commission than that he be under threat of becoming disentitled to act if he does not please. By what corridor of power may complainants hope to reach the ear of the  President  and to induce him to defrock a colleague? What pressures may we expect to be brought against a recalcitrant  President  if he fails to respond to insinuations, subtle or overt, against one judge in favour of another? How will the  President  satisfy himself that there are special reasons'? With whom is he to consult? With the parties? Severally, or altogether, or shall strangers be consulted? Or shall the  President  be left to act with all the appearance of caprice? 
The third area of the Bill and one that is quite startling in its draconian quality- nauseatingly so because, not least, of the total lack of sensitivity and understanding which it demonstrates on the part of this Government towards basic industrial relations considerations- is the proposed provisions in relation to deregistration. What is proposed here is a quite fundamental change to the existing law. At the moment, and as will continue to be the case, deregistration is the ultimate sanction within the conciliation and arbitration system. It is a penalty of outlawry. It is now a penalty which can be imposed only by the Federal Court. Of course, with this legislation it is proposed that it be able to be applied jointly by the resources of the Full Bench of the Commission followed more particularly by a role- an essential role- for the Executive Government. 
The magnitude of the sanction of deregistration and what it means to an individual union and its members has to be appreciated for the full effect and character of clause 16 of the Bill to be understood. What it means for a union to be deregistered is that all the awards to which it has hitherto been a party and which it has gained on behalf of its members will immediately become inapplicable. It means that the membership of that union is immediately vulnerable to being poached by every other rival union with a finger in that industrial pie. It means that the union, the organisation, no longer has, among other things, any kind of access to industrial tribunals to resolve problems of various kinds as they arise on the job. Unions that are deregistered become outlaws in the full medieval sense of that word. Because it does represent such a substantial sanction to deregister a union it has always- in the whole history of the conciliation and arbitration system- been thought appropriate that that deregistration power be vested in the courts and in nobody else but the courts. The courts have jealously guarded their responsibilities and have exercised this function with a great deal of caution and care over the decades that this has been part of the system. Originally, it was vested in the Court of Conciliation and Arbitration itself and then, following the split of functions in 1956, the power of deregistration was vested very specifically by legislation in the Federal Court. 
It is now proposed to vest that power in the Executive itself. The court will have no role at all. 
The Commission will have a very limited role. It will have a threshold role of making a declaration if an application is made to it- a declaration which can be satisfied in really the most extraordinarily trivial circumstances- for example, if there are but two or more individual unionists engaged in some form of industrial action which could be taken by the Commission to constitute and to amount to some substantial interference with the health or welfare of the community. Words like 'substantial' may appear to lend that clause some colour and some weight as a threshold hurdle, as an obstacle, but that is just not so. When one considers- I am afraid that I do not have the text of the clause before me at the moment- the precise language and the way it is put together one will appreciate that the key word pivots in that clause on the notion of the welfare of the community; indeed, not the community as a whole, but a part of the community. I am indebted to  Senator Cavanagh  for finding me a copy of proposed new section 143A. The only tests the Commission has to satisfy itself on- they have been established by the Minister- before it makes this declaration are: 
an organisation has been or is, or two or more members of it have been or are, engaged in industrial action - 
Honourable senators know how wide the definition of industrial action is since the recent amendments to this legislation-  and (b) the industrial action has had, is having, or is likely to have, a substantial adverse effect on the safety, health or welfare of the community or of a part of the community . . . 
A strike by two milkmen in a country town of 35 people could constitute a substantial threat to the health and welfare of a part of the Australian community. In that situation, what then happens is that once such a declaration is made, after the raw elements of that provision are satisfied, it is open to the Executive government at any time in the next six months to make its own declaration to deregister the whole union concerned, not just that part of it which may have prompted the seeking of the declaration in the first instance and not just if that deregistration decision is relevant to the particular facts or circumstances on which the original declaration was obtained. Once a declaration has been obtained it is a situation of open sesame for the Government at any time thereafter, if the mood so strikes it, without satisfying any additional criteria to proceed unilaterally and ruthlessly to the deregistration of the whole union. 
In order to impose any kind of limitation on the width of this section, one has to say that some kind of braking or common sense role will have to be exercised by the Full Bench of the Commission, which just will not find a substantial adverse effect on the community or part of the community if it does not regard it as an appropriate case to justify ultimately the deregistration of the union. But, to read the law in that way and say that it will operate as a threshold test or filter to ensure that the legislation is not abused is to misread completely the responsibilities that this law, as it is explicitly written, vests in the Commission. It is to demand of the Full Bench of the Commission more than any community can demand honestly of its judiciary. It is to demand that the Full Bench perverts its function which, after all, is a very straightforward and explicit one under this legislation. 
The reality is that the declaration provision is no brake on the potentially perverse operation of this legislation. The detaining of the declaration will be a simple formality and the Executive government- this Fraser Government- will thereafter have up its sleeve for a remaining six months the opportunity to deregister that particular organisation at any time for any reason it may choose. The language of  Mr Justice  Staples has been criticised as being extravagant in a number of respects, but he was not extravagant when he described some provisions- in particular this deregistration provision- as appropriate to totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. This point is made in this morning's  Australian Financial Review  by an impeccable authority,  Mr C.  P. Mills, the joint author of standard industrial law working textbook,  Federal Industrial Law.  In a letter to the  Australian Financial Review,  Mr Mills  stated: (t was encouraging to see in your editorial of 16 October the broad support you offered for the arguments of  Mr Justice  Staples against the Fraser Government's Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. 
Your one reservation was with respect to the judge's comparison of the bill with the laws of 'totalitarian and authoritarian regimes'. 
The bill is not as drastic as some laws in force in pre-war Germany, but the technique is the same. 
The commission is to be asked to establish a certain factual allegation in relation to a union, and that may be only that a few members of the union have behaved in the way described in the bill. 
Then the Government is able to do as it pleases with the union, even to the point of deregistration. Once deregistered, it is not to be allowed to register without government permission. 
These powers are absolute. 
There are no guidelines for their exercise. There is no right of recourse to a court or to any arbitration tribunal. 
The order of the Governor-General will be final, and it is the Governor-General who decides whether the conditions he has laid down for the union have been complied with. 
This is the essential mark of a totalitarian, authoritarian regime, even though there is no provision for gas chambers, at least in the present bill. 
That is the comment of an objective and highly respected industrial authority about this piece of legislation, and how apt it is. How apt it is for us to pause for just a moment longer in relation to the deregistration provision and note that it contains not only the ultimate sanction of deregistration but also it contains a series of other provisions which vest in the government of the day, once this preliminary easy threshold declaration has been made, a whole series of other powers to do a variety of quite extraordinary things by way of the manipulation of the union's property and the requirement that it not spend money on particular purposes- for example, particular publications or particular people's salaries. The government of the day, once this declaration has been made, can unilaterally restrict the rights of any individual member of that union, any group of members or the membership of the union as a whole. It can deny them individually or in groups. It can pick and choose the right to vote in union elections and the right to nominate the position of an office bearer within a union. 
There is an enormous range of potential interferences in the domestic conduct of the union which is completely within the competence of the Government to apply at its own discretion if the mood strikes it without having to satisfy any criterion other than its own discretionary whim. I do not think this point has been made by anyone else, but this whole clause raises acute problems of constitutionality for this legislation. It seems to me that it is strongly arguable that these powers- both the threshhold declaration powers by the Commission and the subsequent Executive level powers by the Government- are, in fact, by their very character, powers of a judicial nature and as such are unconstitutionally invested in non-judicial bodies as they are here. I will leave that point for the Government to ponder. 
The next aspect of the legislation which demands certainly some reference is the question of back pay and the provision in the Bill which says that the Commission is not to be empowered to make any award or any determination conferring pay on someone for the duration of that person's having engaged in industrial action. It is this provision which has aroused the greatest rhetorical enthusiasm from the various backwoodsmen and backwoodswomen on the Government benches who have been so anxious to describe and think of all unionists as some kind of industrial gangsters. They are joyous that at least this is one provision which says that the gangsters will get their comeuppance, and here is at least one bit of unjustified enrichment they will not be able to get in the future. Despite its superficial attractions to those who do not think carefully or thoughtfully about its implications, this provision also is wholly bad and unsatisfactory in its operation. It may be that in particular cases it would be wrong, unfair or inappropriate to grant back pay to a striking union as a condition of the settlement. But there are a number of other circumstances where that just is not so. Some of them have been spelt out by  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Douglas  McClelland in their earlier contributions to this debate. 
The situation is illustrated most classically where there is some industrial safety issue involved which has led the workers on the job to strike, and which issue subsequently has been resolved by the Commission wholly in the union's favour. Who on the Government benches would stand up in those circumstances and say that that strike was not justified and that the workers should not be entitled to get their full pay for the duration of the strike? Will the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  say it? Who will get up on the other side and say that? Yet, that is what this legislation denies. It is absolute in its scope. It says that the Commission shall not under any circumstances anywhere at any time make an sward or endorse an agreement containing this kind of provision. 
There are other circumstances, quite apart from the industrial safety context, in which one could envisage its being appropriate as part of a package settlement that some provision be made for the payment of back pay or a proportion of it. One such instance that comes to mind is a situation where a limited ban has been imposed by the workers in question but where their pay has been wholly stopped on the adoption of this fashionable new no-work no-pay principle. If a worker continues to do 99 per cent of his ordinary job, imposing a ban which represents physically about one per cent, then in the past it has seemed to the Commission, and it seems to me and to the Opposition it is wholly desirable that in the future the Commission should have up its sleeve as one element in the potential armoury of the resolution of that industrial dispute the possibility of paying the workers for the overwhelming proportion of the time they have spent on the job. 
The other point to make about the back pay provision is that it is legally absolutely nonsensical. A provision of this kind in the Act will not stand any kind of constitutional challenge to its validity- a point that was made very vigorously by  Sir Richard  Kirby, a point that has been denied ever since with equal vigour but with a great deal of wrongheadedness by the Government spokesmen. The reality of the matter is that we cannot direct the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as to what it can or cannot do so far as issues such as this are concerned. To do so is no longer, on any view, to be making a law with respect to the process of conciliation and arbitration. To pass a law in the terms in which the Government here wants to pass it, limiting the power of the Commission to make awards or determinations of this kind, is to make a law directly with respect to the subject of wages. It is not to make a law with respect to the subject matter of the arbitration process. 
That can be tested very simply by imagining what would be the status of, let us assume, some further clauses were they to be inserted in this legislation at some future time. What would be the status of a provision which said: 'The Commission is not empowered to make an award in respect of a claim for additional pay for skill or for working in confined spaces or at heights or for working in heat or dirt or any other disabling condition'? What would be the situation if it were said in legislative form: 'The Commission shall have no power to make an award in respect of any claim for payment of wages in respect of public holidays worked or in respect of travelling time to or from work or in respect of absence from work for so many days a year for reasons of sickness, or in respect of additional rates of pay for hours worked in excess of 40 a week'? What would be the legal situation were the Government to have the hide to introduce legislative provisions of that kind, saying to the Commission: 'You shall not make decisions with respect to this situation, that situation, some other situation'? What would be the status of a provision which said: 'The Commission shall not bring down any award in respect of a claim for an amount in excess of a dollar sum specified from time to time in the regulations'? What would be the status of that? Obviously it would be unconstitutional. 
Obviously it would not be a law about conciliation and arbitration but a law directly about wages and conditions, and that is exactly that status of this back pay provision in clause 4 of the Bill, proposed new section 25a. That is exactly why  Sir Richard  Kirby said that it was a constitutional piece of nonsense and that is exactly why the Attorney-General should hang his head in shame that he should have the folly to bring in such a childishly incompetent piece of legislative drafting containing a provision of that kind. The final provision in this legislation that needs to be mentioned relates to stand-down clauses, and again that is an innocuous looking provision on its face. It says that stand-down clauses in awards shall be determined expeditiously. 'Expeditiously' is not a word that has been regarded as innocuous by some tribunal chairmen, in my experience.  Mr Gyngell  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal regards his obligation to deal with broadcasting matters expeditiously as justifying his limiting the time for cross-examination by the parties before him, denying rights of reply, and God knows what else. It may be that the conciliation and arbitration commissioners are a little more sensitive to their legal responsibilities. 
I do not think I am making any suggestion to that effect. The word 'expeditiously' conceals the real significance of this provision. Stand-down clauses are draconian clauses when they appear in awards. This is not something that white collar middle class and professional workers understand very well. When there is a fuel strike, a power strike, a transport strike, or a delay or difficulty in obtaining supplies of raw materials for a particular factory, it is not the white collar workers or the professionals who are stood down, it is the blue collar workers. They understand very well the kinds of disabilities that are associated with a stand-down. A stand-down means that not only is one not working and not getting any pay, but one is also consigned to a kind of limbo land where there is no right to unemployment benefits, no right to take any other employment because the contract of employment with one's own employer is still on foot, and no right even to treat the period in question as part of one's leave period or something of that kind. It is a very significant business when a stand-down clause is inserted in an award. The potential injustice and unfairness of a cavalierly inserted stand-down clause has been adverted to numerous times, and I think nowhere more sharply- no pun intended- than by  Mr Deputy President  Sharp in the case of the distilleries award in 1976. He expressed his view about the pros and cons of stand-down clauses in the following terms: 
I do not accept the contention which, in fairness, was not advanced by  Mr Park,  that standing down employees without pay should be an employer's right if that were the most convenient way of avoiding economic loss. 
That, of course, is the familiar employer's argument that stand-down clauses ought to be available as of right whenever any potential economic loss is about to be incurred by an employer through industrial action somewhere else or through a failure in supply or something of that kind, that all that should be involved is the right of the employer to rush before the Commission, for everybody to drop everything as fast as possible, for the matter to be dealt with expeditiously- as this legislation will now have it- and for the employer to get his men off his payroll as fast as possible. However, that is not  Mr Justice  Sharp's view of the matter. He went on: 
The concept that it was managements' prerogative to use labour at will has had no place in western society for many decades. It has been replaced by the concept that the use of the labour of human beings is a privilege accorded to management on defined terms. One of those terms is that reasonable security of earnings be assured to the labourer. This is the purpose of the notice clause in awards and very substantial grounds must exist for this Commission to include any provision which would enable it to be abrogated, even temporarily, by unilateral action. 
There may, however, be circumstances when both the employer and those employed would want to avoid the extreme measure of terminating employment. It is for this situation that stand down provisions should exist and should contain adequate safeguards. If that consensus is not present then, as I have already indicated, this Commission must be persuaded that there are exceptional and substantial reasons based on the facts of that occasion, for its intervention. 
That is the key point about stand-down clauses. Because of their very serious nature, there must be exceptional and substantial reasons justifying their insertion. That is the reason why those considerations should be far more important and far more significant than considerations of mere rush and expedition such as will be the case if the legislation is redrawn, in the way that the Government now wants and the employers now want, by the insertion of the proposed new provisions in relation to stand-down. 
It is a most unhappy piece of legislation when one looks at it. It is ill drafted, ill thought out, draconian in its implications for unions, and thoroughly nasty in its implications for the independence of the whole conciliation and arbitration system. The present Government's approach to industrial relations, which once again is revealed in this piece of legislation, is thoroughly unhappy and thoroughly unacceptable, not just to the Labor Party and to the union movement but to any fair-minded person in the community as a whole. The right approach to industrial relations was put by a very prominent Australian in 1 975 in the following terms: 
Our view is that satisfactory industrial relations depend ultimately on the attitudes of mind of people in industry. 
Attitudes of mutual respect, of willingness to listen, to understand, to reason and to discuss in an informed way are essential. 
That, I suggest, is an admirable statement of what industrial relations and the implementation of new industrial relations legislation ought to be all about. The statement was made by none other than Malcolm Fraser, the present Prime Minister, in August 1975. He was making a preelection address to an industrial relations convention in Perth. It is a great pity that here as elsewhere the reality of the performance has been so different from the promise and the pretended understanding. 
This piece of legislation represents a complete negation of respect, a complete negation of willingness to consult with those in the community who will be hit hard by this legislation and a complete negation of any willingness to cooperate in the rational solution of industrial problems. The only way they can be solved- as we have said over and over again in this chamber- is by co-operation and not confrontation. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
by leave -I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
The appearance of the report is very much to be welcomed. It has long been sought after and has been the subject of questions as to its progress and preparation for some time now. I think I can say from my own experience of working with the Attorney-General's Department in various capacities that it is a highly professional and competent Department, at least when it is stretched by a government willing to give it something challenging to do. It is appropriate that the Department should have the opportunity to display its wares in a report such as this, an opportunity to demonstrate the very wide range of activities in which it is engaged. However, I do not wish to be thought to be conceding that the report is especially informative on matters that are in any way contentious or the subject of larger political interest. Although the Opposition, as usual has had only a short time to scrutinise the report before it was presented, there is a handful of matters to which I direct the Senate's and in particular the Minister's attention as being pretty unsatisfactory in this respect. For example, on page 28 of the report there is a very short reference to the Sixth United Nations Crime Congress the substance of which is: 
Australia has participated in the deliberations of each Congress and was to have hosted the Sixth Congress in 1 980. That Congress is now to be held at another venue. 
That is an extraordinarily uninformative statement and does not amount at all to any justification for the highly unfortunate, unwarranted and, I would believe, unconscionable decision of the Australian Government, after very large sums of money had been spent on initial preparation for that conference, to abandon it simply because of the prospect of a visit from a Palestine Liberation Organisation delegation. 
The second matter that needs to be mentioned is that in this report there is no mention at all that I can find of the current status of the Criminal Investigation Bill. That was something which was recommended by the Australian Law Reform Commission in 1975, which was brought in in legislative form in 1977 and which is of significance and importance to the Australian community, but this report, which might have been expected to give some account of the progress of this legislation along with the other matters it gives attention to, appears to be quite silent on that subject. Again the report in its discussion of administrative law developments, is quite uninformative as to the reasons why the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act of 1977 has still not been proclaimed two years later. It is quite uninformative and offers no help at all to us in understanding what likely additions there may be expected to the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. These are the kinds of quite central questions relating to the administration of the portfolio of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  on which one would hope that this report would be forthcoming. 
Similarly in the area of legal aid the report is cursory in the extreme, giving nothing at all by way of the financial detail that would be needed to have any kind of proper evaluation or understanding of national legal aid in this country. Nor is there any revelation in the report of the guidelines that apply in legal aid, conciliation and arbitration, environmental and other public interest matters, although one would have thought that a report such as this would have been an admirable opportunity for the Government to lay down, in visible and readily accessible public form, the kinds of guidelines that are operating informally in this area. Again the section of the report in relation to the subject of judicial administration is of such derisory length and detail that arguably it might have been better omitted altogether. That is regrettable, given the controversial character of the whole question of court administration under this Government, particularly with regard to High Court administration and the discussions to which that has given rise over the last year and, in that context, with regard to the decision, which has now apparently been taken by the Government, to vest independent powers of administration in the High Court in that body of judges itself. 
The final matter to which I refer is the references on page 48 and subsequent pages of the report to the activities of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. The operation of this supposedly co-operative and consultative committee of the nation's Attorneys-General was the subject of some very stringent criticism by the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs in its recent report on reforming the law. In that report points were made about the long history of shelving, buck-passing and petty point scoring engaged in by the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General and the total failure of that body to develop the kind of effective consultative and co-ordinating machinery that is so necessary if uniform law reform proposals are ever to get off the ground in this country. Again this report is no more than a purely formal and, for that reason, quite misleading statement of what that Standing Committee is up to. 
These are some of the more obvious areas where the report is uninformative or unhelpful. I do not want to sound too churlish about it because it is perhaps unreasonable to expect that the Department would be any more forthcoming than the Minister is when subject to questioning, as he has been, on all these matters when very little, with respect, has been forthcoming from him. But I and the Opposition believe that departmental reports of this kind make a very important contribution to freedom of information. It is important that they be taken seriously by departments, that they not be regarded as a purely formal exercise and that they should always err on the side of giving more information rather than less. It cannot be said that the report of the Attorney-General's Department is especially adventurous in that respect for the reasons I have mentioned and, in fact, for a number of other reasons as well. I repeat, finally, that nonetheless the report is welcome in its appearance. We hope that it will be the first of many, and in future rather more informative, reports from that Department. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I am indebted to  Senator Davidson  for forcing me now to think twice about the short speech which I would otherwise, with boring efficiency, have had to dispatch by six o'clock. I rise not to canvass the general grounds covered by the Migration Amendment Bill 1979, which have been well covered- indeed, covered with admirable profundity, if I might say so- by both my colleague  Senator Mulvihill  and  Senator Davidson.  Rather, I rise simply to draw attention to what seems to me to be a quite serious continuing anomaly in the Migration Act, which regrettably remains uncorrected by this important amending Bill. 
The anomaly to which I refer is that part of the present Migration Act which makes it possible for someone who is a naturalised Australian citizen nonetheless to be deported. Provisions in the Migration Act- sections 13 and 14- in fact allow that result. In other words, provisions remain on the statute book which quite intolerably and unconscionably, I would have thought, to all parties represented in this chamber fail to correct the deficiency which was seen and corrected by the 
Labor Government in the amendments which it made to the Crimes Act in 1973. Those amendments were the subject of quite considerable debate and favourable attention at that time. Moves were made by the Government to remove certain sections and provisions from the Crimes Act, to which I will refer later. But regrettably that exercise was not accomplished, in my view anyway, with full efficacy and those provisions still remain in the Migration Act which make it possible for someone to be deported even though he is a naturalised Australian. I ask the Government in the course of this debate to think very seriously about removing those provisions. Both sections 13 and 14 refer not to aliens being deported but rather to immigrants being able to be deported in certain circumstances there set out. It is well established that, as a matter of Federal constitutional law, persons can continue to be regarded as immigrants if they are born overseas and have come here from overseas, even after they have been naturalised. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
The point I was seeking to make before the suspension of the sitting was that there are a couple of sections of the Migration Act, not proposed to be altered by anything in the Migration Amendment Bill 1979, which can be read in certain circumstances as enabling someone to be deported notwithstanding that that person has in fact become naturalised. This is because the deportation sections in question, namely sections 13 and 14 of the Migration Act, bite on people as immigrants rather than by virtue of their being aliens. As a matter of law the situation seems to be that the concept of an immigrant is not necessarily one that ceases to apply when a persons becomes naturalised. The terms are not coextensive. A person might be capable - 
The terms are not coextensive; that is the point I am making. It appears that they are not coextensive as a matter of law because a person can go on being an immigrant, as the law now stands, notwithstanding that he has been naturalised. I do not want to bore the Senate with all the details of the case law as it stands. A summary of it can be conveniently found in Campbells and Whitmore 's book  Freedom in Australia,  Second Edition, pages 194 to 196, or any reputable constitutional law textbook. The cases do indicate an awful uncertainty about the definition of an immigrant both in itself and for the purposes of the reach of the 
Commonwealth power with respect to immigration. It may well be that there is on the present case law a point at which a person becomes a member of the community or becomes absorbed into the community- as the judges have put it- so that at that point the person ceases to be an immigrant for the purposes of the reach of Federal constitutional power. But even on this view, naturalisation seems simply to be one among a number of criteria which can be weighed and balanced by a court in determining whether that degree of absorption has in fact taken place. If that is right and one then looks at sections 13 and 14 which enable persons to be deported in a whole variety of circumstances, one sees that the criterion of reference is simply the status of a person as an immigrant. Section 1 3 says: 
. where an immigrant: 
has been convicted in Australia of an offence punishable by death or by imprisonment for one year or longer being an offence committed within five years after any entry by him into Australia; 
has been convicted in Australia of an offence by reason of being a prostitute or of having lived on, or received any part of, the earnings of prostitution or of having procured persons for the purpose of prostitution, being an offence committed within five years after any entry by the immigrant into Australia; or 
This is even worse- 
is within five 'years after any entry by him into Australia, an inmate of a mental hospital or public charitable institution, the Minister may order the deportation of the immigrant from Australia. 
Again referring to the Migration Act, section 14 (2) says:  in the case of an immigrant who entered Australia . . . not more than five years previously: 
his conduct (whether in Australia or elsewhere) has been such that he should not be allowed to remain in Australia; or 
This is language very reminiscent of the Crimes Act: 
he is a person who advocates the overthrow by force or violence of the established government of the Commonwealth . . . the Minister may 
Subject to the procedural considerations set out later in the section-  . . order the deportation of that immigrant. 
The other sections, such as section 14(1), that allow for deportation do so in the context of referring to the subject of that deportation as an alien. If one looks at section 13 and section 14 (2), one sees that the reference point for the operation of that section bites on the status of a person as an immigrant. Admittedly, both of the sections, the provisions of which I read out, do have time limitations built into them, namely, a criterion in each case that the offence or conduct in question took place within five years of the person entering Australia. Of course it is now possible under the citizenship legislation which came in in 1973 for a person to become naturalised not after five years, but after three years. So, one still can have a situation where someone has been in Australia for just three years, applies immediately for naturalisation and, I am suggesting, can be construed as the law now stands as an immigrant for the purposes of federal statute law and for the purposes of the reach of federal constitutional power, and as such be then liable to the impact of these particular sections. 
Presumably one is sure that that is not a situation which any government would intend, particularly after the amendments to the Crimes Act in 1973 which were sponsored by the Labor Government and received support from the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition. The amendments specifically removed from Crimes Act offences language which would equally have made it possible, so the argument went, for persons to be deported notwithstanding that they had become naturalised citizens. It might be remembered that the language of section 30C of the old Crimes Act, the section which related to persons who by speech or writing advocated or encouraged the overthrow of the Constitution, and the rest of the things that went with thatthis is very similar to section 14 of the Migration Act which I read out- provided for a person on conviction to be imprisoned for a period not exceeding two years. It went on to say: 
. and in addition (if he was not born in Australia) to deportation by order of the Attorney-General . . . 
Similarly, section 30J, relating to the inciting of industrial disturbances, also contained a provision which said that in addition to any other penalty that might be imposed, if the person in question was not born in Australia, he was liable to deportation. Those provisions and a couple of others like them in the Crimes Act were fairly widely regarded as unconscionable and intolerable in their potential impact and they were removed. The attitude of the then Opposition to the removal of those very specific provisions from the legislation is best conveyed by the opening words of the late  Senator Greenwood  when he spoke to the Crimes Bill 1973 in the Senate on 22 May 1973. In  Hansard  at page 1792 he said: 
I say at the outset that the Opposition supports this Billsupports it wholeheartedly and supports it consistently with the view which was expressed by me, as Attorney-General, on behalf of the former Government over the last 2 years of its term of office. The Bill seeks to repeal provisions which give to the Attorney-General the power to deport persons who are not natural born Australians- notwithstanding the fact that they may be naturalised Australians- and who have committed certain offences under the Crimes Act. The Bill seeks to  assert  the principle that ail Australians, irrespective of whether they are natural born or naturalised, have an equality under the law and should be treated equally. With that proposition the Opposition is thoroughly in accord. 
The point I am simply making is that it seems to me, on the state of the law at the moment, that it is possible for those provisions to which I have referred in the Migration Act to be read as having exactly the same effect as those now discredited and repealed provisions of the Crimes Act. Accordingly, even though there has not been to my knowledge any instance of the actual use of those powers, any more than there had been any use of the powers in the Crimes Act which were repealed in 1973, nonetheless it would seem appropriate that the attention of the Government was turned to this matter and that some action was taken to amend accordingly the legislative provisions. I appreciate that it is rather late in the history of this legislation and indeed in this debate to be confronting the Minister now with a demand to accept an amendment. It may be that this is a matter on which further consultation or analysis is required. I take that point and simply put it to the Minister that if, after she or the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  has had an opportunity, in consultation with his advisers to look at the points that I am making in order to satisfy himself or herself that I am not stretching too long a legal bow and that there is that possibility of that interpretation, I would be happy if the Minister could give some assurance that, following such an examination, the legislation would be repealed or amended at some appropriately convenient point of time. It may be that the point to which I have been adverting could be resolved very simply by deleting the word 'immigrant' wherever appearing in these sections and substituting the word 'alien'. That seems on the face of it to be a simple solution to the problem to which I have referred. It may be that the Minister has had an oportunity to have a look at this matter during the suspension of the sitting and would be interested in accepting an amendment along those lines. 
In any event, the point of my rising to my feet, as I said at the outset of this debate, was simply to draw attention to what seems to me to be an unfortunate anomaly. Whether it has stayed there inadvertently or as a result of deliberate departmental policy, I do not know. Certainly I think I can say that it was not present in the mind of anybody in the Labor Government when the provision in relation to the Crimes Act 1914 was being repealed, but nonetheless there was a possibility of exactly the same results being achieved under the provisions of the Migration Act 1958. But that point having been made, perhaps I can leave it to the Minister to indicate what response the Government has on this matter. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the Minister in possession of a communication dated 15 October 1979 addressed to him and other leading members of the Liberal Party from one James Twaddell who describes himself as an experienced investigator and secretary of one of the branches of the North Sydney Federal Electorate Conference of the Liberal Party? I ask whether this document contains, in addition to a number of matters going to the credit of  Dr Peter  Solomon, the following extraordinary statement: 
There is good evidence to indicate that  Senator Carrick  is neither a tool of the KGB or a plant of the socialist Left. 
I ask the Minister: What were the nature and the source of the original allegations apparently made against him which gave rise to this statement? Do those allegations have any substance? If they are as palpably absurd as  Senator Carrick  might be inclined to claim they are, can he tell the Senate why it was necessary for a private investigator to investigate and to refute those allegations in the highly solemn manner disclosed by this document? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, concerns the Australian Federal Police. The question assumes particular significance given the behaviour of that force in relation to the Solomon-Twaddell matter and also the apparent impending amalgamation with it of the present Federal Narcotics Bureau. Does the Minister recall in the course of the debate on the Australian Federal Police Bill in June of this year advising the Senate, with as much solemnity as he could muster, that legislation on the procedure for determining complaints against that police force would be introduced later this year? Is it the Government's intention now to introduce such legislation in the remaining days of this session? If not, why has it broken yet another promise in this way? 
-by leave-On any view, this is a major report- major in its size and sweep and major in the importance of its subject matter. I believe it will come to be regarded as one of the more useful, perhaps even impressive, products of the Senate committee system- a system which undoubtedly justifies our existence as senators more than anything else, and which arguably is the only justification for our existence. I do not want to tread unnecessarily over the ground which has already been trodden by  Senator Missen.  Incidentally, his contribution to making freedom of information a public issue in this country can hardly be underestimated. 
Therefore I do not want to canvass in any detailed way the conclusions of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Nonetheless, I think it might be convenient and useful were I to mention very briefly in my words what the basic findings and recommendations of the Committee were. The findings could be summarised succinctly but, I think, accurately as follows: Firstly, despite what has been said by so many Government spokesmen, the Westminster system does not justify extensive limitations on the scope of freedom of information; secondly, many claims about the resource implications of freedom of information legislation have been undoubtedly greatly exaggerated, and the Public Service can and should be able to cope with legislation much less narrow than that which has so far been proposed; thirdly, the present Freedom of Information Bill allows much too much information to escape the net entirely, containing as it does too many unnecessarily restrictive exceptions and exemptions; fourthly, the Bill provides insufficient safeguards against administrative, procedural and financial obstruction of freedom of information requests- too many obstructive powers rest with agencies; fifthly, the Bill does not impose sufficiently clear and precise guidelines for agencies to publish directories, indexes, manuals and guides on the operation of the legislation; and sixthly, the present review and appeal procedures are both too cumbersome and too limited. 
I turn to the major recommendations made by the Committee. I think the rule and substance of the 106 detailed recommendations to which  Senator Missen  referred can perhaps be summarised in six propositions also. Firstly, the Committee has recommended that the Bill be amended to provide for considerable narrowing in the scope of the allowable exceptions and exemptions. Secondly, it has recommended a reduction in the capacity of the bureaucracy to put procedural and financial obstacles in the way of freedom of information applicants. Thirdly, it has recommended that there be a positive obligation on agencies to produce detailed directories, indexes, manuals and guides on the operation of the Act and to assist applicants for information. Fourthly, it has recommended that there should be a substantial increase in the role of the Ombudsman in the informal resolution of grievances arising, as they undoubtedly will, under the Act. Fifthly, it has recommended that there should be a greater role for the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, including in particular the determination of appeals in a number of matters which are presently subject to conclusive Government certification. Finally, we recommend the creation of a 'Reverse-FOI' procedure as it is dubbed, to enable those with a genuine interest to protect especially the commercial organisations and give them the opportunity to argue their case before information concerning them is released by government agencies. 
The report of the committee has inevitably taken, as  Senator Missen  said, a considerable time to produce. He indicated the reasons for that. They include the great volume of evidence that we received and the equally great complexity of the issues with which we were dealing. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  made some rather tetchy remarks about the delay in the appearance of the report in the course of a speech that he delivered at the 20th Australian Legal Convention two or three months ago in Adelaide. I believe the report which was put down today is its own answer to that kind of criticism. I do not believe that  Senator Durack  now would or should quarrel with the volume or indeed the quality of the advice which has been made available to him. I only hope that now that the honourable senator has the report he will display that same concern for time that he exercised before and that he will endeavour to formulate the Government's response to, it with all the speed of which we know he is capable. 
Might I suggest that it should not be a difficult matter to formulate the Government's attitude to this report. I put it to the Senate and to the Government that there can be no excuse for the Government either ignoring or rejecting the Committee's recommendations; nor should they be" sent to the Public Service to be sanitised or emasculated by yet another interminable interdepartmental committee'. The truth of the matter is that the Committee has gathered a massive amount of evidence; it has considered its findings long and carefully; it has argued for all its recommendations in great detail; and it has reached every conclusion unanimously. 
We have recommended a number of substantial changes to the Bill to make it more credible and effective, but every one of those changes that are recommended is realistic and practical. Every change that we have proposed has been tested for both its feasibility in terms of public service resources and its implications for the overall machinery of the Government, in particular, Parliament, Cabinet and Public Service relations. For example, where we made recommendations with obvious resource implications- for example, the reduction of time limits or the retrospective extension of the legislation- we have supported the phased introduction of the extensions in question. It may be that, notwithstanding the far reaching character of our recommendations, those recommendations will be insufficiently radical for some of the most stringent critics of the Bill. Certainly I think it can be said that I, myself, initially felt a great temptation simply to tear up the Government's Bill and to start again. 
You did indeed,  Senator. I  believe it is far better to come up with, as the Committee has done, a Bill which will enormously assist open government and be a sound basis for further evolution of that principle, than to come up with a Bill which achieves the millennium overnight on paper but which will never be enacted. I certainly want a freedom of information Act. The Committee wants it. The community wants freedom of information legislation. But we do not want any old Freedom of Information Bill enacted. We certainly do not want a Bill like the present one which is pregnant with the danger of doing more to undermine freedom of information than to advance it. What we want is the kind of Bill that the Committee has now recommended, one which is sensitive to the complex pattern of inter-relationships between the different arms of government which now exist and one which is sensitive to the resource constrains which necessarily impinge upon any government, particularly in current circumstances. The Committee wants a Bill which, at the same time, goes a lot further than the Government has so far been prepared to concede by way of acknowledging, in principle, that open government is good government, and a Bill which embodies the principle that every infringement or limitation on the principle of open government be capable and subject to reasoned explanation and justification. This is the kind of Bill which the Committee recommends. I commend accordingly the report of that Committee to the Senate and to the Government. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) To which officer designations in the Department of Social Security has the Director-General delegated the following responsibilities in accordance with s. 12 of the Social Services Act 1947: (a) determination of eligibility for unemployment benefits (s. 107); (b) determination of the rate of unemployment benefit payable (ss. 1 12 and 1 14); (c) postponement or cancellation of unemployment benefit (s 120); and (d) suspension or cancellation of unemployment benefit (s. 131). 
To which, if any, officer designations in the Commonwealth Employment Service has the Director-General of Social Security delegated the responsibilities set out in ( 1 ) above. 
Which Department is responsible for formulating policy guidelines as to the application of the work test to claimants for unemployment benefit. 
Why has the Minister responsible for the Commonwealth Employment Service, rather than the Minister for Social Security, made the public announcements regarding application of the work test to claimants for unemployment benefit, in view of the responsibility under the Administrative Arrangements Order of the Minister for Social Security to administer the Social Services Act 

 Senator Guilfoyle the answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
In the Department's Central Administration the Director-General has delegated his responsibilities in respect of each of (a), (b), (c) and (d) to the Deputy DirectorsGeneral, the First Assistant Director-General (Benefits), the Assistant Director-General (Entitlements and Appeals) and to each Director and Assistant Director within the Entitlements and Appeals Branch. 
In the Department's State Administrations, these responsibilities have been delegated to each State Director, each First Assistant Director (Benefits), each Senior Assistant Director (Benefits) and to appropriate officers in the Department's State Headquarters and Regional Offices involved in the processing and reconsideration of applications for unemployment benefit. The lowest classified officers holding a delegation to determine unemployment benefits are Clerks Class 4. In addition, the Director-General has delegated his responsibilities under (d) only to Unemployment Benefit Authorising Officers in all State Headquarters and Regional Offices of the Department. 
None. 
and (4) Responsibility for the administration of the Social Services Act rests with the Director-General of the Department of Social Security. The Department of Employment and Youth Affairs, through the Commonwealth Employment Service, is responsible, as agent for the Department of Social Security, for the administration of the work test applied in determining eligibility for unemployment benefit. 
Guidelines for the application of the work test are formulated by the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs in close consultation with my Department. 
It is because of his Department's responsibilities in relation to the work test that the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs has made recent announcements on this topic. 
ns- Kogarah Municipal Council 

 Mr D. E. Landa; Hunters Hill Municipal Council 

 Mr J. K. Little; Marrickville Municipal Council 

 Mr O. C. McMann; Hurstville Municipal Council 

 Mr D. Porter; Sutherland Shire Council 

 Mr J. Reagan; Randwick Municipal Council 

 Mr J. D. Smith; South Sydney Municipal Council 

 Mr J. Swannell; Drummoyne Municipal Council 

 Mr J. C. Wiggins; Botany Municipal Council 
Airlines 

 Mr P. Bruce; Ansett Airlines of Australia 

 Mr G. F. Nott; Trans Australia Airlines 
Captain A. Terrell- Qantas 
State Government 

 Mr A. Boss; State Planning and Environment 
Commission 

 Mr K. Whitmore;NSW Department of Local Government Commonwealth Government 

 Mr R. B. Crampton;Department of Transport  (Chairman) 
MrS. J. Creasey; Department of Transport (Secretary) 
The Committee operates under the following terms of reference which were announced by the then Minister for Civil Aviation in December 1 969: 
Informing the public on aircraft noise problems and the action being taken. 
Maintaining a continuous liaison with airlines, community groups and other interested authorities about possible noise nuisance to proposed housing and other community projects. 
Discussing current aircraft noise problems and seeking satisfactory answers. 
Acting as a clearing house for all specific noise nuisance complaints relevant to Sydney and co-ordinating resolution of complaints. 
Recommending appropriate additional investigation and research into community noise problems associated with aircraft operations at the airport. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 3 April 1979: 
1 ) How many applicants during the period from April 1978 to March 1979 have had the $100 Family Court fee waived on the grounds of substantial hardship. What percentage of the total number of applicants for dissolution does this represent. 
How many persons have successfully applied for a waiver of the minimum contribution imposed in the guidelines dated 25 October 1978. What percentage of applicants does this represent. 
In how many cases has legal aid been granted for dissolution of marriage since the guidelines of 25 October 1 978. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Amendment Bill. We have supported, both while in Opposition and when in government, the whole package of legislation which constitutes the new Federal administrative law- the Ombudsman Act, the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act and the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act. Of course, we will be supporting, in I hope its new and burnished form, the Freedom of Information Bill when it comes again before this Parliament. We are happy to assist the process of making the new administrative law more flexible and more efficient. By and large we see this Bill as having that effect so far as the Administrative Appeals 
Tribunal is concerned. Nonetheless, we approach the Bill with some reservations. 
The first of those reservations goes to the source of the various proposed changes which the Bill contains. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  in his second reading speech, said that the propositions in the Bill principally stem from recommendations made to the Government by the Administrative Review Council. But the Minister in turn acknowledged that the recommendations contained in this legislation, the new legislative provisions, are by no means wholly the subject matter of recommendations from the Administrative Review Council. As yet he has not done the Senate the courtesy of telling us which of the provisions in the Bill are the subject of recommendation from the Council and which are the subject of the Government's initiative. If the provisions in question are from the Administrative Review Council the Opposition's position is that, subject perhaps to better explanation in some areas, the Opposition will accept them because we are satisfied with the credibility and the stature of that advisory body which is headed by the three ex officio members-  Mr Justice  Brennan,  President  of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal; Professor Richardson, the Ombudsman; and  Mr Justice  Michael Kirby,  Chairman  of the Australian Law Reform Commission. 
If we can be persuaded and satisfied that the provisions in this Bill all come as a result of reasoned recommendations from the Administrative Review Council we will accept them with unanimity. But if they do not come from that source we will scrutinise them much more closely because we want to know precisely what departmental and governmental reasoning is behind such provisions. In particular, our task in distinguishing between what it is that we might be prepared to accept on that basis and what we may not is made more difficult by the fact that we do not know precisely what it is that the Administrative Review Council has recommended. I am led to understand that to the extent that the Council's recommendations do lie behind this Bill they are contained in its third annual report which is due to be tabled quite soon- within the next week, I understand- in this Parliament. 
Debate interrupted. 
-These Bills have had a very bad Press and deservedly so. The  Australian Financial Review  of 2 November put it this way: 
The legislation is an unhappy compromise fashioned out of federalism and trying to walk on the eggshell-strewn path between politicians who want a forceful armory to honour human rights and those who don't want any legislation at all. 
It pleases no one except those hopefuls who think it is a base on which to build- and on the available evidence, that they may have a very long wait. 
Perhaps the most succinct editorial comment on the legislation, taking into account both the Human Rights Commission Bill and the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill however came from the  Canberra Times  on 29 September, when the following statement was made: 

 Senator Durack 's legislation is empty where it is best, dangerous where it is not. 
It is easy to see why this new Human Rights Commission, despite its superficial attractions, will do little or nothing to advance the cause of human rights in this country. It is equally easy to see how, in the process, the Commissioner for Community Relations,  Mr Al  Grassby, will be stripped of all those powers and responsibilities which have made him, over the last few years, such an effective voice for blacks and migrants in this country. One does not have to be much of a cynic to discern two clear motives for this legislation. The first is to enable Australia to be seen internationally as doing something about human rights, but without the Government having to actually, in practice, do anything at all to improve the local situation. The second motive is undoubtedly to suppress the hitherto all too irrepressible  Mr Grassby  who has long been a very embarrassing thorn in the Government's side exposing, as he has done with so much flair and capacity, the unhappy state of racist attitudes and behaviour in this country, but again being able to dispose of  Mr Grassby  without at the same time being seen to be actually abolishing his office. 
The sheer hypocrisy of these two Bills, their cosmetic quality at best and their contemptuous disregard for effective protections for human rights at worst is, and can be, very readily demonstrated by looking a little more closely at what they contain. The Human Rights Commission Bill establishes a Human Rights Commission consisting of a  chairman  who, one is led to understand, will probably be a judge acting part time. There will be a  deputy chairman  likely, it seems, to be  Mr Peter  Bailey, the Public Service architect of this legislation who will be the full time executive director of the organisation and between five and nine other members, most of who will be part time. The functions of the Commission, to put it broadly, are those of inquiry, investigation, report, research and education. The Commission will be able to investigate complaints or inquire into matters on its own initiative relating to breaches of human rights by the Commonwealth by or within a Territory. It will also be able to report generally on the effectiveness of existing Commonwealth and Territory law and it will be given a general mandate to 'promote understanding and acceptance' and also to undertake and co-ordinate 'research and education programs in relations to human rights'. The Government did not succeed, as apparently it hoped it would when it withdrew the previous Human Rights Commission Bill introduced by  Mr Ellicott  in 1 977, in getting the States to agree to participate directly in the Commission. The Bill now provides that intergovernmental arrangements may be made between the Commonwealth and any State or Territories for, as clause 1 1(1) states: 
the performance on a joint basis of functions relating to the promotion of the observance of human rights in that State or Territory; 
the performance by that State or Territory  . . on behalf of the Commonwealth of functions (including functions of the Commission) relating to the promotion of the observance of human rights. 
The Bill goes on to define 'human rights' for the purposes of the legislation as meaning the rights and freedoms recognised in the International Covenant on Civil and Political rights and any other declared international instrument to the extent to which that international instrument is applicable in Australia. One interesting and important clause in the Bill is clause 9 (2) which recognises the necessity, in certain circumstances, for affirmative action or benign discrimination; the clause in question provides that an enactment or practice should not be regarded as offensive to human rights if it is:  . . solely for the purpose of securing adequate advancement of particular persons or groups of persons in order to enable them to enjoy or exercise human rights equally with other persons. 
So far, so good. But there are at least four major, very substantial criticisms which can be levelled at the Bill as it now stands. Let me deal with those in turn. The first is that the Bill does nothing to actually change the law in any of areas such as police powers, freedom of assembly, voting rights and all the rest of them, where civil rights are very obviously in need of specific legal protection. It is true that in a number of areas like racial discrimination and also the protection of privacy effective investigative and conciliatory machinery can be as important in practice and perhaps even more important than the creation of formal rights enforceable through the courts. It must be acknowledged that there are many other areas where nothing short of a change in the law will help to correct the situation. In bringing forward this legislation the Fraser Government has explicitly rejected, for the umpteenth time, the idea of an Australian Bill of Rights which would- I will talk about the concept of the Bill of Rights later on- specifically incorporate into the substantive law, some of these crucial rights and protections. The reality is that in this legislation the Fraser Government has opted for a Human Rights Commission without this substantive backup and the result will be little more than an exercise in cosmetics, unless and until the law is given that fundamental change of direction that is needed. 
The second obvious objection to this legislation is that the Commission is given no role at all in relation to State law. It can investigate complaints or make recommendations only with respect to existing or proposed laws in relation to matters arising at the Commonwealth level. But the reality is that the most flagrant breaches of human rights are perpetrated, and perpetrated regularly, at the State level. The worst offenders currently are Queensland and Western Australia with their laws and practices relating to voting, public assembly, criminal investigation, Aborigines and, perhaps one can also add, industrial relations. Other speakers, particularly those on this side of the chamber and to a lesser extent those on the other side, will no doubt develop this point in greater detail. Indeed, I propose to do so at the Committee stage. However, its fundamental importance should not be understated. 
In the Bill there is provision for future cooperative human rights action between the Commonwealth and particular States in agreed areas. But I think even the most charitable assessment of the situation would be that this is, at the moment, a very long way off. In any event those States where co-operation is least likely are the very States where new initiatives and action are most urgently needed. I take the view and the Opposition takes the view that here, as elsewhere in this whole human rights area, the Commonwealth should gather up its courage and legislate under the external affairs power- section 5 1 (xxix) of the Constitution- in such a way as to extend its jurisdiction in human rights matters over the States. 
The third criticism is that the Bill tries to have things both ways so far as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights is concerned. In the first place the definition of the term human rights' in the Bill is squarely related to the contents of the Covenant, and that is a good way, on the face of it, for opening up a wide range of human rights topics to be brought within the umbrella of the Commission to the extent that the Covenant covers, as it does, just about everything in the realm of civil and political rights, from slavery to privacy. The difficulty about relying on this one Covenant is that it is not an especially good way of ensuring that any particular right is protected to the maximum extent. Freedom of assembly, to take one example in making the point, is denned in Article 21 of the Covenant- the Covenant is conveniently incorporated in the Human Rights Commission Bill by way of a schedule- as being legitimately subject to restrictions:   . . in the interests of national security or public safety, public order  (ordre  public),  the protection of public health or morals or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. 
That set of permissible exceptions from the scope of freedom of assembly contained in Article 2 1 of the Covenent- particularly insofar as it includes the wide-ranging French expression, ordre public, which is much more extensive in its connotations than the English expression 'public order'- appears to allow the survival of even a street march law such as that which exists in Queensland. Yet, while on the one hand the Government derives the benefit of the looseness of the Covenant's definitions, it does not rely on the Covenant as a basis for extending, as I suggested it should under the external affairs power of the Constitution, legislative reach of the Bill into the States. Of course the Bill does not give specific legislative approval to the ratification of the Covenant as did by way of contrast the Radial Discrimination Act 1975 in relation to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. It may well be some considerable time before the Australian Government gets round to ratifying the Civil and Political Rights Covenant, let alone the optional protocol to that Covenant which would allow individual human rights grievances to be aired in an international forum. 
The whole history of the ratification of this Covenant- I say this in parenthesis- has been a most unhappy one. It seems to me now, as it seemed for a number of years- I believe also to  Senator Missen,  who is nodding his head- that there ought not be any excuse any longer, if indeed there has ever been any excuse, for Australia delaying the ratification of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The evasion, equivocation, posturing and prevarication with which successive governments have treated this question has long since ceased to be a joke. I do not entirely exempt even the Labor Government from this charge, although it was  Mr Whitlam  who at least took the first step in December 1972 of signing the Covenant which started the process. 
It will be remembered that we were first promised ratification of the Covenant in 1973- seven years after its adoption by the United Nations- to coincide with the twentyfifth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We were then promised ratification, it may be remembered, in 1978 to coincide with the thirtieth anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights. Now I understand we are being promised ratification later this year after this legislation finally is passed. One suspects that we will still be sanctimoniously fussing and fiddling 'consulting the States ' and 'ensuring that we are in a position to fulfil our international obligations' when the Diamond Jubilee of the Declaration comes and goes. 
The fourth main problem in relation to the new Commission- in many ways this is the most serious of all- is that on my understanding it seems likely to be given only derisory staff and resources. That is my understanding. I would be all too delighted if the Attorney were in a position and willing to tell me that my understanding is incorrect and that the staff and resources will be substantially great. Until he tells me that my understanding- I communicate it to the Senate- is that the new Human Rights Commission will have a total staff of no more than about 10, leaving aside  Mr Grassby  's staff of a similar number who will be amalgamated into the new Commission. All of the ten staff, I understand, will be based in Canberra: there will be no regional offices established, notwithstanding the purported national reach of this new legislation, this new national machinery. I mention now, as I will mention again later, that the Commissioner for Community Relations has been sadly undernourished in his staffing since the Fraser Government took office. The successive annual reports pointing to the impossibility of effectively carrying out investigative and educational research and promotional work on a shoestring budget. It seems that exactly the same considerations will be applicable to the even broader range of functions now proposed to be vested in the Human Rights Commission. The real test of the Government's commitment to anything more than a shopwindow approach to human rights will come when it reveals the contents of its purse. I can only suggest that the auguries at the moment do not appear to be very favourable. 
One other test, of course, of the sincerity of the Government's approach to the protection of human rights and to giving some viable status and character to the new Commission will be the way in which it approaches the staffing of the Commission and whether it mans it with personnel of capacity, credibility and energy. It will be particularly interesting to see who the Government appoints as  chairman  of the Commission. If it takes the step of appointing a dynamic and effective judicial character- I understand it will be a judge; I might be wrong, but I would be only too delighted to be corrected on these matters by the Attorney- such as Michael Kirby of the Australian Law Reform Commission, then he or she might be able to make a silk purse out of this sow's ear. But the appointment of anyone of any lesser calibre will all too obviously demonstrate that the Government's concern with this legislation is to do nothing more than to create a cosmetic structure, which as I have said might make us appear in international forums, where we may not be scrutinised too closely, to be fulfilling our international obligations but which in reality will be a sad travesty. 
The Opposition's general attitude to the Human Rights Commission Bill, the first of the duo before us, is, then, that it is a wholly inadequate solution to the problem of the protection of human rights in the country. What is needed, in the Opposition's viewpoint and I hope also from the viewpoint of a number of Government senators, is a piece of legislation which creates not just machinery for the discussion and promotion in a very abstract sense of human rights in this country but a means for people to enforce their rights. What we want and what we need is a recognition in Australian law that the kinds of rights which are specified in the International Covenant are part of Australian law and can be relied upon when they are breached and threatened either in the private or public sector, as they so often have been in the past and in current circumstances. What we need is a situation in which those rights are enjoyed, not just in the Australian Capital Territory or as a matter of Commonwealth law, but where it really matters- in the States, around the country. We want a situation in which there is effective machinery for the enforcement of those rights- but not just on paper. It does not help much simply to give a right, a formal legal status, unless machinery is simultaneously created that will make the enforcement of that right a reality. By an effective enforcement machinery- I will spell this out again in a little more detail later on- I do not mean simply the courts; I mean also certainly the kind of conciliatory machinery which has proven itself to be so appropriate for the resolution of a great number of particular kinds of human rights problems. I mean an enforcement machinery which is an appropriate blend and balance of soft conciliatory measures and mechanisms on the one hand, but on the other, lying behind that, an iron fist- a court sanction, with the possibility of proceedings perhaps being initiated by the human rights agency in question. That is the kind of response that we think is appropriate. That is the kind of thing that we see to be totally omitted from the very framework of this legislation as it is presently constructed. Accordingly, it is for that reason that on behalf of the Opposition I move an amendment which has been circulated to the motion for the second reading of this Bill. I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert "the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to provide for: 
Specific adoption in judicially enforceable form of the rights specified in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights along the lines of the 1973 Human Rights Bill. 
Application to the laws and practices of the States; and 
Expanded powers and functions for the Commission, including effective means of enforcing its recommendations. 
What this legislation redrafted in those terms might actually look like needs a little further elaboration. I will come back a little later on to spell out the kind of thing that the Opposition does believe is appropriate and what is subsumed within the terms of that amendment. 
Let me now turn to the other side of the coin, the other piece of legislation, the companion piece of legislation that has been introduced, the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill. This is the part of the package which emasculates  Mr Grassby.  It does the job neatly and efficiently. It is not for nothing that in the back rooms and corridors of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party offices this is known as the 'Get Grassby' Bill, because that is exactly what it does. It might as well be labelled that because the substance of it, when one looks at it, it is an unapologetic exercise in just those terms. 
The Commissioner for Community Relations,  Mr Grassby,  is left by this Bill with little more than his title and a number of functions which he may or may not be allowed to exercise at the discretion of the Human Rights Commission of which he is not to be a member.  His  independence will disappear and there is no guarantee, despite various Government protestations to the contrary, that he will be able to go on exercising the kind of investigative and noise-making role that he has engaged in since his office was established in 1975. 
There ought to be no doubt about the worth of  Mr Grassby  's office and the role that he and his staff have played in the Commission for Community Relations. He started with a handicap. He started with a piece of legislation which had been emasculated by the Liberal and National Country Parties in this Senate by removing from it provisions or rewriting provisions so as to make the proof of discrimination more difficult, so as to remove from the Commissioner his power of compulsory evidence gathering, by removing from the Commission his power to initiate litigation. But notwithstanding those handicaps the Office set to work and has done as has been widely accepted in the community at large, an admirable job ever since. 
For a start, the statistics speak for themselves. In the latest annual report of the Commission, the Commissioner records that, since the inception of his office, 2,818 complaints have been investigated over those four years. Conciliation has failed and dissatisfaction has prevailed in only three of those cases. The performance of the Commission who speaks for itself in the annual report volumes which the Commission has produced. The volumes, four of them now represent a mine of information about the nature, extent and character of racism within Australia and about the attitudes of Australian governments-federally, territorially and in the States in confronting it. No one who has even read or even dipped into any of those reports of the Commission could fail to perceive them otherwise than as a searing indictment of the racism which still prevails in the Australian community, but, moreover, an indictment which is meticulously researched and documented. The volumes are admirable and impressive. They are frightening volumes in many ways but they are an important educative mechanism, an important reform mechanism in the Australian civil rights climate. They have made a very crucial contribution to our understanding and I hope to our appreciation of what is necessary to overcome Australian racism. 
Furthermore, the standing of the Commission is demonstrated not just by the statistics and not just by the volumes but by what people say and believe about Grassby and about his Commission. There is no doubt that, whatever the churlishness which is periodically and very often noisily expressed by Government spokesmen and backbenchers, he and his Commission enjoy enormous respect and credibility in a very wide swathe of the community. One measure of that respect and credibility which  Mr Grassby  enjoys, one very simple mechanical measure of it, is the number of invitations that he receives to travel the country and talk to community groups, in particular, migrant groups and Aboriginal groups. 
During the Estimates Committees hearing on 7 May this year, I asked the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and through him the relevant public servants: 
It it not the case that a good deal of the Commissioner's travelling is in fact sponsored by the organisations which he visits and to which he speaks, and that that is necessarily so because of the stringency of the present Budget? Is that a fair comment? 
From  Mr Wyer  of the Community Relations Commission, I received the following answer: 
Yes, that is a fair comment. I would say that 90 per cent of his travel is sponsored, but it depends on what one means by that. Some organisations actually contribute fares as well as costs, but very few do so. 
Ninety per cent of the movements around the country of  Mr Grassby  are the product of paid invitations from those organisations which he visits. One can perhaps regard the willingness to expend money in this materialistic age as being one significant demonstration of the credibility and respect in which  Mr Grassby  is held. 
Yes, indeed. I am indebted to  Senator Missen  for drawing that to the Senate's attention. What is extraordinary, of course, and the sting in the tail of that exchange during the Estimates Committee hearings is the way in which the Commission has been able to perform its function, to build this credibility and respect in the community at large, without any kind of reasonable level of financial or physical support from the Government. 
As my colleague says, 'or political support'. This legislation before the chamber is the measure of that. To do all the work that the Commission does and has done each year around Australia it has been given a staff of just 1 1 people, despite the fact that  Mr Grassby  has periodically pressed the Government for an addition to his establishment, as a basic minimum necessary to perform his task, of at least double that. The work load statistics, as demonstrated in the annual reports of the Commission, are quite incredible. Between 1975-76 and 1976-77 there was a 73 per cent increase in the complaints dealt with. Between 1 976-77 and 1977-78 there was a 38 per cent increase. Between 1977-78 and 1978-79 there was a 13.4 per cent increase. During that whole period the staff allocation remained absolutely static. 
Similarly, in respect of finance, the allocation for the financial year 1975-76 was $1 12,000. In 1976-77 that went up to $239,200. In 1977-78 it was $256,786. In 1978-79 it was $300,000. The estimate for the current year is $315,000. I ask honourable senators to compare that with the $lm which the Victorian Government, just one State, has indicated it is now prepared to make available for a promotional campaign to eradicate racism in that State and Victoria is perhaps the least racist State, if I might claim that, in the Commonwealth. The Victorian Government is prepared to spend more than three times the annual budget that the Grassby Community Relations Commission gets for a whole year to maintain its on-going program of investigations, conciliation, education, research and promotion of human rights right around Australia. It is a scandalous situation. There is no doubt that the organisation has suffered and suffered badly as a consequence.  Mr Wyer,  again in the course of his evidence through the Attorney-General to the Estimates Committee hearings on 7 May this year- this is reported at page 286 of the relevant  Hansard-  when asked how the efficiency of the organisation was suffering as a result of this financial stringency, said: 
Things are not being dealt with adequately. I think that this financial situation is a clear indicator of that. Complaints are not being dealt with adequately. They are being dealt with to the extent that staffing resources and general resources allow. What I am saying is not new. This situation is clear from the Commissioner's last three annual reports. He has reported in this way to the Parliament. 
Notwithstanding that stringency, notwithstanding that tightwad attitude that the Government has continually demonstrated in relation to  Mr Grassby  and his organisation, they have nonetheless ploughed on manfully to do the job that I have indicated and to enjoy and accumulate the respect that I have indicated. That ought not to be doubted or contested by any Government spokesman from the Minister down. Against that background, let us look and see what the Government is trying to do to the Community Relations Commission in this Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill. 
In the first place, the object of the Bill is said to be the rationalistion of human rights machinery- that is certainly not something which is objectionable to the Opposition in principle- and as a result the amalagation of the Community Relations Commission into the Human Rights Commission. Again that is something that might not in principle be objectionable, but the difficulty, the obvious anomaly, is that there is not provision in the legislation for the Community Relations Commissioner to be one of the commissioners of the Human Rights Commission; nor, as I understand it, is there any intention whatsover on the part of the Government, without specifically mentioning it in the text of the legislation, to employ  Mr Grassby  as one of the new Human Rights commissioners. This is nothing short of a calculated insult to  Mr Grassby  and one which will not go unnoticed by the migrant communities whom he has served so irrepressibly and effectively. 
The second criticism that the Opposition has about this legislation is that the various functions which are vested in the Community Relations Commissioner by section 20 of the Racial Discrimination Act, namely investigation and settlement of complaints, promotion of compliance with the Act and general research and education to combat racial discrimination, are now all given specifically to the new Commission. It is stated that these functions are to continue to be performed by  Mr Grassby  'on behalf of the Commission'. 
The crunch comes in the proposed new section 20A (2), which states: 
In the performance of a function on behalf of the Human Rights Commission, the Commissioner is subject to the directions of the Human Rights Commission. 
It will be very interesting to see, for example, whether  Mr Grassby  will continue to be allowed to exercise his own judgment in relation to such matters as the issuing of court certificates in the Archer River affair, which honourable senators will recall involved the Queensland Government's refusal to transfer land rights leases to an Aboriginal community. This was one of the matters in which conciliation machinery failed and failed spectacularly. It clearly had to be the subject of litigation, if the matter were to proceed further, but it has been the subject of some reluctance when it came to support from the present Federal Government. 
Thirdly, although it appears on the face of the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill that there is nothing in it to directly stop complaints of racial discrimination wherever arising, including Queensland, being channeled directly to  Mr Grassby,  as they have been in the past, the Opposition believes that one must take into account the potential effect of clause 1 1 (1) (b) of the Human Rights Commission Bill, which has an effect, and which would make it possible for the Commonwealth to delegate completely to a State any function relating to the promotion of the observance of human rights, 'including functions of the Commission'. There is that possibility to delegate powers and functions, including the function of receiving and dealing with particular kinds of complaints to a State agency or instrumentality. One cannot forbear from commenting that continued pressure of the kind that has so far been so successfully exerted in the past, for example, in relation to Aurukun and Mornington Island, may well result in the Commonwealth handing back to States like Queensland the domestic enforcement of all or part of the Racial Discrimination Act. One hardly needs to stress how deplorable an abdication of Commonwealth responsibility that would be, but it is able to be accomplished as the text of this Bill now stands. 
The fourth general matter that I wish to raise about the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill is that  Mr Grassby  's staff is to be transferred lock, stock and barrel to the new Commission, leaving him no powers at all of hiring, firing or deployment. In the explanatory memorandum to the Bill, the Government's intentions in practice are stated as follows, and quite the relevant passage: 
Under the arrangements proposed by the Bill, the staff of the Commissioner will be transferred to the  HRC.  The Commissioner will of course continue to be assisted by them in the exercise of the inquiry and conciliating functions- 
I interpolate there: For how long remains to be seen. The passage continues: 
But the promotional and education research functions under the principal Act will be carried out for the  HRC 
That point makes it abundantly clear, in my submission, just how empty is the earlier provision contained in the text of the Bill stating that the Commissioner for Community Relations is to continue to exercise his original functions on behalf of the Commission, as the quote goes. How can he exercise any functions at all if he is given no staff to help him perform them? 
The fifth point is this: The powers vested in the Commissioner for Community Relations by the 1 975 Act in relation to the appointment of local concilation committees and the central Community Relations Council-not that that has ever been established- are now stripped from him and vested in the Human Rights Commission. The explanatory memorandum suggests that these are appropriate measures under the new arrangements, but that would appear to be so only if one's object by this provision is to further humiliate the office holder in question. I think the final expression of the Government's contempt for  Mr Grassby,  and no lesser word is appropriate, and also the Government's discomfiture - 
Indeed, fear and discomfiture at his work to date- lies in the provision in the Bill which deprives him of the right or the duty to present an annual report to the Parliament. In future his work is to be reported simply as one part of the larger annual report of the Human Rights Commission. Not much imagination is needed to see how the provocative, stimulating, informative and far-reaching series of annual reports that  Mr Grassby  has produced since 1975 will be written in the future. It is obvious that the Government has wanted to rid itself entirely of  Mr Grassby  and all his works. But it has not been able to muster the courage to openly and honestly abolish his office. Rather, it will wait until his present statutory term expires, and in the meantime do everything possible to minimise his effectiveness and maximise his humiliation. The contempt that has thus been shown to both  Mr Grassby  and to the communities that he so effectively served should be matched in turn by our contemptuous rejection of this half-hearted mish-mash of new legislation. That is the attitude of the Opposition to this Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill 1 979. We regard it as wrong in concept, bad in its execution, incapable of surgery and incapable of amendment. We oppose it outright in the second reading stage, and if it goes beyond that we will oppose-it clause by clause in the committee stage. There will not be any amendments; it will be opposition, for the reasons that I have outlined. 
Let me conclude, at some length still, by indicating a little more constructively perhaps than I have hitherto what is the Australian Labor Party's attitude to an appropriate solution to these human rights problems. Let me start by saying, because it is necessarily a central theme in this package of legislation and in particular that part of it which concerns the Community Relations Commissioner, that we do not object to the better and more effective co-ordination of human rights machinery in this country. There has been a proliferation of such machinery at both Federal and State levels in recent years, in the areas especially of racial and sexual discrimination- if  Senator Maunsell  can bring himself for a moment to concentrate on concepts which will be entirely unfamiliar to him, I expect- and also in the area of privacy. There is a case, in the interests of avoiding confusion in the public mind and in maximising the efficiency with which rights can be protected in these areas, for all these various bodies to be integrated into a single organisational structure. But if this kind of exercise is to take place, it has to be effective. It has to operate in a way that is sensitive to the ends that we are trying ultimately to achieve, or I assume we are trying to achieve- though I am not sure in the case of some members of this chamber. 
At the Federal level, to dismantle the Community Relations Commission, at the moment an effective and viable operation, and to incorporate it into this ragtag and bobtail new creation of the Human Rights Commission, would be a travesty of any such objective. Under present circumstances, given the attitudes, the motivations, the kind of machinery that is involved, it would be a disgrace. I might add that similarly to try, as the Government apparently intends doing, to dismantle the national network of employment discrimination committees, those tripartite bodies of employers, unions and government which have engaged very successfully in the - 
That is a matter on which the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Confederation of Australian Industry and the  Chairman  of the National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation,  Dr Colin  Hughes, remain quite unpersuaded. Given the fact that the responsibility for these communities at the moment is still tenuously within the Ministry of Employment, and possibly within the area of industrial relations- there seems to be some kind of tug of war going on in that particular area- those Ministers who have the most immediate responsibility for the administration of that particular informal anti-discrimination operation have not made the position at all clear. It is true that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has gone further than the other Ministers to indicate his own view of that particular situation, but what the reality is in terms of the Government's position still remains very unclear to that organisation and those committees. 
That may be so, Attorney. 1 am delighted to hear it. I will certainly take that view in the future. But the reality of it is that there is a feeling of uncertainty abroad. The promised creation of those particular organisations in the future on a statutory basis has not yet been forthcoming. The answer on that particular front apparently has been held over pending the outcome of this legislation, and the situation is, so far as those organisations are concerned, still unclear. I do not mind personally whether ultimately those two committees are integrated into an effective organisation of a national sweeping human rights law enforcement kind. But what one is concerned about, and I am delighted to get a denial, if that is what has just emerged from the Attorney's lips, is that there may be some residual lingering temptation, once this new machinery is established, to rationalise', to 'clear the boards', and to vest this particular function in the Human Rights Commission. A very unsatisfactory exercise that would be were it to come about in those terms. 
At the State and Territorial level, when one moves beyond the purely Federal scene, the Government acknowledges, and has acknowledged by its actions over the last two or three years, that there is a case for trying to weld together the various existing State and Federal human rights agencies into some kind of coherent form of organisation, and the Bill, I suppose it must be acknowledged, does create the framework for further development on a co-operative federalist basis in that particular respect. But experience so far surely should have persuaded the Government, and certainly persuaded  Mr Bailey,  as the Government's main adviser in this area, that cooperative federalism, here as elsewhere, is destined to be an abject failure, and that there is no prospect of getting effective, inegrated acrosstheboard machinery unless the Commonwealth itself takes the initiative and exercises that constitutional power which it almost certainly in my belief at least has available to it under the external affairs power, and enacts its own human rights legislation. 
The centrepiece of the legislation, in the Opposition 's opinion, should be a national human rights Bill. It is this kind of legislation one model- not the only one- for which presently exists in the ill-fated Human Rights Bill of 1973 which we suggest ought to be the re-written form of this legislation. It is to the creation of that kind of more effective piece of national human rights machinery that our second reading amendment is directed. I repeat the terms of that amendment which are that the present Human Rights Commission Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to provide for: 
Specific adoption in judicially enforceable form of the rights specified in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights along the lines of- 
It will be noted that it does not say 'in identical terms ' to- the 1973 Human Rights Bill. 
Application to the laws and practices of the States; and 
Expanded powers and functions for the Commission, including effective means of enforcing its recommendations. 
It may be appropriate for the record, without endeavouring to traverse in any way the whole sorry history of the 1973 Human Rights Bill and the storm of ill-understood reaction that it created - 
Some, indeed, understood it,  Senator Missen.  I remain eternally grateful for that. That Bill regrettably drowned in 1 973 in a sea of hostility from various sources. It came from the complacent, mostly conservative lawyers, who saw no need for any Bill of rights. Then there were the sceptics, mostly journalists and other lawyers, who saw a need for a Bill of rights but doubted that that one would work. There were the law and order types who thought the Bill would work all right but for the wrong kinds of people. There were the States' righters, probably the most significant lobby group of allmiscellaneous State Premiers and Supreme Court judges prominent among them- who hoped that the Bill would not work at all in thenown backyards. There were the old fashioned Parliament men, if I can so describe them, like Jim Killen, who were against what they perceived to be an encroachment by the judiciary on the rights, prerogatives and preserves of the democratically elected representatives of the Parliament. The largest category of all, if not the most significant in their opposition, were the suspicious, mostly clerics, who saw the whole thing as a kind of gigantic fiddle aimed at denying them their rights. That was the kind of environment in which the 1 973 controversy was fought out. I shudder at the thought of any repetition, but the risks of creating that kind of opposition have to be taken on and overcome by any government which is concerned to get a rational mechanism for the enforcement of human rights in this country. 
The kind of model that the Australian Labor Party is committed to in this respect is a national Bill of rights. Putting it simply, a Bill of rights is a document which identifies fundamental rights and freedom and requires that they be respected and perhaps sets out some mechanism for their enforcement. We acknowledge that it is appropriate and possible for such a Bill of rights to be introduced not only at the national level but also at the State level. We would be all too delighted were any State to take, in addition to any initiative which might operate at the Commonwealth level, such an initiative and introduce such a piece of legislation. I notice in a Press report in the  Courier-Mail  of 9 April this year that the south-east regional conference of the Liberal 
Party in Queensland thought the concept of a Bill of rights- understandably enough in that State- was an admirable one. Any such initiative would be welcomed by the Labor Party. We are not so besottedly centralist in our approach to this or anything else that we would not welcome such an initiative taking place at a State level as well as at a Federal level. 
We make the point and will make the point throughout this debate that the real problem of human rights is at the State level and that we are only touching the tip of the iceberg if we operate at the Commonwealth level. At the national level a Bill of rights could take the form of something that was incorporated in the Constitution itself. That, to me and to the Labor Party, remains a viable and sensible longer term goal. But pending the achievement of that millennium we would regard it as appropriate and desirable that a Bill of rights be incorporated into national legislation, along the lines of the 1973 Human Rights Bill. We believe it appropriate, if that legislation is to be worthy and deserving of the name, that it actually set out in specific detail the particular rights which are being protected and give them some stature, some legal force. 
The kinds of rights that would be appropriate to deal with are essentially those canvassed and covered within the Civil and Political Rights Covenant. I do not think it is appropriate, although some people do, to talk about a Bill of rights as appropriately containing references to the right to clean air, a basic income, health care and so on. Rather, I think it is appropriate to talk, when one is giving civil liberties legislative form, in terms of traditional civil and political rights, which do not depend on the mobilisation of large financial resources for their realisation, but simply depend on the attitudes, actions and good faith of governments. A lot can be said, but this is not the time or place to do so, about the kind of language in which it would be proper to couch such a national Bill of rights. It is possible- there are ample precedents in other countries for both ways of doing it- to use either very broad and general language or on the other hand very precise, meticulous language which is elaborately concerned to specify the exceptions and exemptions to the particular basic rights in question. My personal view would be to favour, at least so far as the statement of the basic rights themselves is concerned, relatively short, simple and elegant language, that being important not so much from the point of view of ease of judicial or other interpretations but because of the crucial imagination-capturing and educative role that such legislation would necessarily have to play. I would not go quite as far as the United States in that respect nor perhaps even adopt the precise language used in the 1973 Human Rights Bill in expressing rights. But I do think it is possible, within the kinds of parameters I have indicated, to produce statements of rights in terms which are both succinct and sufficiently meaningful legally to be capable of application and practice, but which are not hopelessly offputting to the ordinary layman or average reader. 
I do not accept for one moment the age old criticism about Bills of rights that some danger is involved in specifying and listing particular rights because by doing so we exclude the possibility of the continuing enjoyment of other rights which may have been accidentally or inadvertently omitted from the list. The simple technical solution is the insertion of a clause, called technically a 'non-derogation clause', in a Bill of rights which simply says that the enjoyment of any of the rights here set out does not in any way derogate from the existence of such other rights, whatever they may be, which have hitherto been recognised. 
So far as the enforcement of a national Bill of rights of the kind that I am urging is concerned, it is important, I think, that there be some role by way of enforcement given to the courts, both to make declarations that particular laws or Executive acts are in breach of the Bill of rights' guarantees and to apply standards in matters where they are otherwise lacking, for example, the criminal law enforcement area. I know all the arguments about the conservatism of judges. I know of their likely tendency, in the Australian environment, to approach a Bill of rights with the same degree of application as they would approach a dog Act or a tax Act. I know that the libertarian attitudes of our judiciary tend to be somewhat conspicuous by their absence. But I do retain a confidence that, by having such a piece of legislation on the statute books, it could cause no harm and may do some positive good. That needs to be argued, and obviously I am running out of time in which to argue it now. 
Such legislation may, and I believe over a period it would, do a substantial amount of good in that it would give litigants and judges tools with which to work in striking down unconscionable legislation and unconscionable behaviour. It would give them tools which they presently completely lack, given the way in which our law is approached. In addition to the courts, I believe that it is appropriate and desirable that there should be enforcement mechanisms and enforcement machinery of an investigative, conciliatory kind, with which we have become familiar in the work of  Mr Grassby,  the Community Relations Commission, the various States' sexual discrimination and equal opportunity commissions and the Privacy Committee in New South Wales. They and many overseas jurisdictions provide models from which we can learn. 
The final point to be made about the concept of a Bill of rights is a very important one, namely, that it is not in any view- certainly it is not in our view- a universal panacea. It is not the only approach one should adopt to human rights. It is not a substitute for other more specific, more piecemeal solutions to particular human rights problems in the privacy area, the sexual and racial discrimination area, the criminal investigation area and other areas as well. But it is a fundamentally important back-up mechanism. If it were to be enacted in the way in which I have suggested and in the way in which it is encouraged to be enacted by the amendment which the Opposition has moved to the motion for the second reading of the Bill, we would be a hell of a lot further down the track in the protection of human rights than we are at the moment with the two Bills which are before us. 
If the present Bills represented a genuine effort to take a step along the way towards the creation of effective human rights machinery in Australia, one could and would do nothing but applaud this new legislation. But the circumstances of the introduction of the Bills and the barest scrutiny of their terms show that the Government is intending nothing of the kind. The Government must not be allowed to get away with the pretence. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Is the amendment seconded? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I move: 
Page 4, clause5, lines 1 and 2, leave out 'but does not bind the Crown in right of a State or the Northern Territory', insert 'and of each State and the Northern Territory'. 
This amendment would have the effect of amending the terms of clause 5 so that it extends to bind not only the Commonwealth but also the Crown in right of any State or of the Northern Territory. The amendment is a corollary of the previous one that I moved. The reasons to be advanced for it are exactly the same as those I indicated with respect to the previous amendment. So there is no necessity for me to speak further to the amendment. 
-I move: 
Page 2, clause 3, sub-section ( 1 ), paragraph (b), lines 1-6, leave out the paragraph, insert the following paragraph 
an act done or practice engaged in- 
by or on behalf of a State or a Territory or an authority of a State or Territory; or 
within a State or Territory;'. 
The effect of this amendment is to extend the definition of the phrase 'act or practice' beyond acts or practices done by or within the Commonwealth itself, or other Commonwealth territories, to the notion of acts or practices by States or within- in addition to the ordinary territoriesthe Northern Territory. Its real significance can best be appreciated when it is read in conjunction with the further amendment that is to be moved by both myself and in identical terms,  Senator Missen,  to insert new clause 16A. That new clause is directed to providing an enforcement mechanism for persons who are found by the Commission to have been on the receiving end of acts or practices which are in breach of human rights. As the proposed new clause 16a is set out it refers only to acts or practices which take place at the Commonwealth or immediate Commonwealth territory level; that is, the Australian Capital Territory and other Commonwealth territories apart from the Northern Territory. Unless the definition of 'act or practice' in clause 3 is changed the enforcement mechanism in proposed new clause I 6a will be something of a damp squib. It will be confined solely to the enforcement through the courts of breaches of human rights at the Commonwealth level. 
Therein lies the difference between the approach of  Senator Missen  and the approach of the Opposition in this respect.  Senator  Missen  has made great play of his enthusiasm for extending the scope of this Bill to the States and to the Northern Territory. Indeed, there are some provisions, notably his proposed new paragraph 9 ( 1 ) (ha), which would allow the Human Rights Commission to investigate acts or practices within the States and within the Northern Territory. But that is as far as  Senator Missen  would have us go. He retreats from the prospect of actually enabling individuals who are aggrieved by offensive acts or practices within the States or within the Northern Territory to have a court remedy.  Senator Missen  is happy for the Human Rights Commission to investigate such alleged breaches and to report thereon to the Federal Minister. But he does not want to create any right of enforcement once such a finding or determination is made by the Commission. The Opposition, on the contrary, does want there to be such an extended power or right of enforcement in this particular area. We take the view that this is entirely consistent with what most speakers said during the second reading debate, when it seems it was universally acknowledged that the great bulk of offensive intrusions on human rights takes place at the State level. 
That is not to make any concessions about the offensiveness of a number of acts and practices, laws and pieces of Executive behaviour which operate at Commonwealth level. Indeed, we have spent a good deal of time this session with Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and Customs legislation protesting against such intrusions of civil liberties at the Commonwealth level. But as we all know, the reality of the matter is that the real offensiveness, the great bulk in volume terms, of the offensive intrusions on civil liberties is taking place at the State level. It is a matter which is common to all the States, although some States single themselves out for special attention. In no State is there satisfactory provision, legislative or otherwise, for the control of police behaviour in criminal investigation. New South Wales has recently enacted legislation relating to complaints against police, but that is as far as it goes. Elsewhere there is a huge vacuum. 
No State, again with the possible exception of New South Wales, has anything like adequate legislation or machinery relating to invasion of privacy. Most States, not only Queensland and Western Australia, although they have become the most notorious in this respect, have on their statute books legislation which, if enforced in a ham-handed way, is manifestly offensive to rights of public assembly and freedom of association, assembly and political protest in the public domain. Queensland inevitably comes in for a special degree of singling out and treatment because of the extraordinary width and diversity of the intrusions upon individual liberty that have become characteristic of that State. Even the shortest catalogue of intrusions upon civil liberty in Queensland would necessarily number a dozen major items. There is the treatment of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders in the text of legislation and in the circumstances of Executive behaviour and in expressions of governmental attitude. There is also the treatment of trade unions, which is quite offensive to the historical notion of freedom of association of labour which has manifest itself in a number of ways, most recently in the essential services legislation in that State. Some grotesque intrusions have been made into the freedom of political belief in the conduct of the education system in Queensland. It has been commonplace for candidates for political office who have been forced by constitutional provisions to resign in order to contest elections and who have failed to secure election, thereafter not to be reappointed. There is a political gerrymander which operates in Queensland offensive to any concept of equality of voting rights, which is probably the most spectacular in the country. There is a long history of peculiarly venal behaviour in this respect in Queensland, and I certainly do not exempt historically Labor governments from that particular charge. But there is no doubt that at the moment the kind of intrusion on the voting rights which exists in Queensland is the most cynical, the most blatant, the most unself-conscious and the most complete in the Commonwealth. 
The behaviour of the police in Queensland, which I mention in general terms, necessarily is the subject of a particular comment, particularly in relation to the findings of the Lucas Committee of Inquiry into the Enforcement of Criminal Law in Queensland. The conduct of the Government in relation to emergency legislation again has been a running sore in Queensland politics for the last decade or more. We had the Mount Isa mines strike in the 1960s, the Springbok visit in 1970, the use of the emergency powers of the transport Act to impose a blanket military-type curfew operation under those circumstances, and now again emergency legislation embodied in the most recent essential services legislation. There is the firearms and offensive weapons legislation which has only recently been introduced into the Queensland Parliament and which entitles the most extraordinarily wide powers of search and seizure, detention on suspicion and the formation of vigilante groups with official State sanction to take place. It is an astonishing piece of legislation. There was the amendment to the Justices Act which achieved notoriety earlier this year which would have removed entirely the traditional right of individuals, without the necessity of government consent, to pursue private prosecutions in criminal courts. So it goes on. 
In his speech earlier this evening,  Senator Chipp  repeated a similar litany. It is a familiar one in any discussion on human rights in this country. Queensland happens to be a special case, but it is only a special case because of the quantity of its offensive legislation and Executive behaviour. It is not especially different qualitatively from the situation which prevails in other States. For that reason it is crucial, if this legislation is to have any utility at all, that it be extended into the State domain, using all the constitutional power that the Government can utilise obviously under the external affairs power. It is not enough, in the view of the Opposition, for the extension of the legislation to take the form simply of enabling the new Commission to engage in inquiries and reports. We are not sufficiently confident of the utility of report and publicity associated with breaches of human rights. There have been reports and innumerable publicity in recent years relating to the situation in Queensland and elsewhere. But regrettably the situation has remained unchanged. The Opposition takes the view that if one is going to be serious about this and serious about improving standards within the States, there must be some kind of enforcement teeth in the legislation itself. It is for that reason that I have moved the enforcement provision amendment in clause 16 (a). I have moved the amendment to clause 16 (a) to give that clause bite and effect in the States and the Northern Territory. 
I conclude by saying that the Attorney resisted any suggestion that the legislation should have any effect on the State arena at all by saying that it was really a matter of accepting the federal tradition of this country and in particular accepting the view about the inappropriateness of the Commonwealths entering in any intrusive or forced kind of way into areas of jurisdiction which had belonged traditionally to the States. It seems to me and to the Opposition that one cannot go on then to claim, as the Attorney did, that federalism was its own guarantee in a sense of human rights and that somehow that principle of federalism on which he relied to justify the nonextension of the Bill into that area was itself a human rights guarantee of a kind. 
The Opposition takes the view that the whole history of federations- I refer not only to Australia in this respect but in particular to the United States- is that they simply cannot be relied upon to protect through the participation of their member units the civil rights of individuals. It has been a classic phenomenon in the American experience that the worst breaches of human rights, particularly in the racial discrimination area, were in the State area in the South. It was necessary for federal legislation to be enacted to overcome them. Similarly, in Australia it is obvious that the Federal principle of letting the States do their own thing has produced nothing but a continued record of disaster with regard to civil liberty principles. There is a conflict between the federalist principle and the human rights principle. The Attorney and the Government cannot have it both ways. They have to choose. They have made clear their choice. They have chosen the federal principle rather than the human rights principle. Let that be openly and overtly acknowledged for the sellout that it is by a government which claims to be genuine in its protection of human rights. For so long as it maintains this resistance to the extension of federal legislation into the areas where the real problems are it cannot credibly and respectably hold up its head internationally or within Australia as a defender of human rights. 
-An amendment in identical terms has been circulated by the Opposition. For that reason we support  Senator Missen  's amendment, as indeed we will be, I take it, ad idem, on a number of other matters during the remainder of this evening. The importance of the amendment is, as  Senator Missen  said, essentially symbolic. It is acknowledged by the Opposition, as it was by  Senator Missen,  that a provision of this kind, albeit that it does appear in the Racial Discrimination Act, is not technically necessary. In Australia the Executive can, quite without any parliamentary approval, ratify international treaties, unlike the situation in the United States where any treaty ratification has to be with the advice and consent of the Senate. 
The real significance, as the Opposition sees it, of this particular clause is that its enactment by the Parliament would represent an absolutely unequivocal commitment by the Parliament to the ratification of this covenant, which is an important matter to be accorded legislative form given, as  Senator Missen  said, the long and unhappy history of Australia's failure so far to ratify the Covenant despite numerous promises to do so in 1973, again in 1978 to coincide with the 30th anniversary, and presumably again this year. There has been an awful lot of fiddling and fussing about done by the Commonwealth Government in this respect. It is important that finally a firm decision be taken to proceed with the ratification and that be given explicit legislative form. 
I notice that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has circulated his own amendment, a proposed new clause 3lA which provides, in effect, for the public notification of the terms of Australia's ratification of this Covenant and indeed our accession- if that ever happens- to other international instruments. May I suggest, with all respect, that if this is intended to be some kind of sweetener for the Government's rejection of this proposed new clause 5a, it certainly does not have that effect so far as the Opposition is concerned. We regard the proposed new clause 3 lA as a piece of empty nonsense, given that the terms of the ratification could be normally expected in the ordinary course to be publicised in the  Gazette,  if not elsewhere, and for this particular provision to appear in the statute in these terms appears to us to add absolutely nothing of substantive significance or effect. Certainly it is not of the same significance or effect as the kind of provision that we are seeking to incorporate. 
On the subject of the Covenant and its ratification, none of us ought to be under any illusions about what ratification by itself will actually achieve. Certainly it will help, just as every accession by another country does, to give extra weight and status to the Covenant and thereby help give some strength and credence to the international human rights movement. I suppose it will do something to burnish Australia's image internationally and help to justify our rather undeserved place on the United Nations Human Rights Commission, and perhaps enable us to earn one in due course under the Human Rights Committee which is established under this Covenant. Of course, ratification does not necessarily mean that this will have any direct and immediate effect on the rights and liberties of ordinary Australians. 
Ratification of the Covenant does no more than oblige Australia to report periodically to the Treaty Committee. By itself it does not mean that Australia is in any way subject to critical investigation by international agencies either at the instigation of some other national party to the Covenant or some individual petitioner. It is only if we accede in addition to the Covenant to the optional protocol that goes with it, which does not seem, regrettably, to have been seriously proposed hitherto by any government, Labor or Liberal, that there would be any really significant implications associated with attachment to international machinery, because accession to the optional protocol would mean that individual human rights grievances could be the subject of complaint, investigation and report in the international forum. 
I foreshadow something of a continued prodding over the next few months and years on the Government on the subject of the optional protocol because I genuinely believe- I hope the Opposition will be with me in this respect- that the optional protocol is perhaps the most significant part of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. All that said, nonetheless I repeat that the ratification of the Covenant has an obvious symbolic significance in all sorts of ways. Governments of both colours have been mucking about long enough on the question of ratification. There is no legal hindrance, as  Senator Missen  has said, to our ability to ratify the Covenant, whatever the State of Australian law and whether this Bill is passed and in whatever form. For that reason we support quite strongly  Senator Missen  's amendment. 
-In order to demonstrate that I am capable of making at least one short speech, even on a broadcast night, I say simply that the Opposition regards this amendment as probably unnecessary but nonetheless quite inoffensive and for that reason does not oppose it. 
I do not pursue the matter further, except to say two things: Firstly, the migrant communities in this country will be very interested indeed to hear the decision on that question if and when the Government does make it. Secondly, I did not mean my question to be taken as a concession that the present Government would still be in office in three years to make that decision. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 16 October 1 979: 
Has the Attorney-General, in the light of the Government's proposed action to prevent one parent taking children overseas without the consent or knowledge of the other, considered what steps might be taken, or be legally possible, to prevent one parent taking children interstate without the consent or knowledge of the other, where the children have been the subject of a Family Court order granting access rights. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security whether she recalls that, following  Senator Grimes'  raising of the matter of telephone tapping in the investigation of the alleged social security conspiracy, she stated in Parliament on 3 May 1 978, as recorded in  Hansard  at page 1346: 
My advice is that no telephone tapping was undertaken by the Commonwealth Police. 
Is she aware that Detective Chief Inspector Thomas has now admitted on oath in court that a number of telephone conversations relevant to this investigation were intercepted and recorded by means of a device attached to a telephone at Commonwealth Police headquarters in Sydney? Is she further aware that Australian cases such as the Queen v. Padman have clearly laid down that telephone tapping which is accomplished by the attachment of a recording device to a telephone, even with the permission of the subscriber or of one of the parties to the conversation, is quite illegal under Commonwealth legislation? 
With respect, the honourable senator has not read the authorities, as usual. Either before or after making the statement referred to on 3 May of last year, did the Minister make inquiries of the Commonwealth Police as to their use of such methods of investigation? 
-The Opposition strongly supports  Senator Missen  's amendment, which seeks to make  Mr Grassby,  the Commissioner for Community Relations, a member of the Human Rights Commission. 
-That is indeed so. It is not intended, however much we in the migrant communities respect  Mr Grassby,  to immortalise his name in the actual statutory language. Our approach to this amendment, as  Senator Missen  has indicated, is that it represents a much less satisfactory solution than allowing the office of Commissioner for Community Relations to continue to exist as an independent entity in its own right. It is a matter for great regret that the vote to reject the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill was lost last night only by one vote, as a result of the indavertent non-appearance in the chamber, in time, of  Senator Harradine.  Indeed, it is a matter for regret that  Senator Harradine,  no doubt for good reason, is once again absent today, with the result that it would not be possible to have a re-run at the third reading stage. 
Therefore, for various considerations of this kind, we are forced back into trying to rescue what we can from a thoroughly unsatisfactory situation. The rescue that is proposed by  Senator Missen,  and applauded by the Opposition, would at least give the Commissioner, whoever he may be from time to time, a seat on the Commission and a voice, even if only one of seven, in determining the way in which the Commission as a whole, and more particularly the community relations part of it, will operate. Yesterday the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  made it very clear that an explicit provision of this kind would be necessary because the Government did not propose to make the present commissioner,  Mr Grassby,  a member of the Human Rights Commission. It can only be said that the stated reasons advanced by  Senator Durack  were feeble in the extreme. We had from  Senator Durack  a variation on the floodgates argument. This was as implausible and unpersuasive as such floodgates arguments always are. The floodgates argument in this case was: If we started the process of rationalising various human rights agencies around the country, where would we stop if we put the heads of all those agencies on the Human Rights Commission? It is not at all clear what other agencies which are presently in existence or which might come into existence the AttorneyGeneral has in mind in conjuring up this feeble prospect. He has made it clear that he does not include within the range of his ambitions the employment discrimination committees which now operate at the national level and at every State level. It appears that in the future they will not be demanding places on the Human Rights Commission. 
It is obvious that a consideration of this kind is at best a barely veiled rationalisation of the Government's real reason; that is, it finds  Mr Grassby,  the present Commissioner, a political embarrassment not because of his previous party affiliations but because of the way he so relentlessly exposed the deficiency of governmental activity both at the State and Federal levels in protecting our citizens against racial discrimination. It is also evident that there is some element of a long-standing personal vendetta being conducted against  Mr Grassby.  As I said in my speech at the second reading stage, it is no accident that in the corridors of this Parliament back bench Liberal members are referring to the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill as the Get Grassby Bill', because that is what it is about. The failure of the Government to make it clear, either as a matter of statutory language or even without an amendment of the kind that  Senator Missen  proposes, that the Commissioner for Community Relations will be appointed to, and a member of, the Commission can be construed only as a calculated insult to the present Commissioner,  Mr Grassby,  which, as I said at the second reading stage, will not go unnoticed by the migrant communities which  Mr Grassby  has served so irrepressibly. 
It is the real matter of importance that is involved here because despite the AttorneyGeneral's endeavours yesterday to say that the Commissioner for Community Relations will continue to exercise in practice the untrammelled powers that he has at present and that this is merely a formalisation of arrangements, the reality is that the legislation provides for the Commissioner for Community Relations,  Mr Grassby,  to become a mere cipher, a mere delegate, of the new Human Rights Commission. Under the provisions of the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill, which had its second reading last night, the various powers vested in the Commissioner are now to be taken from him and formally vested in the Commission. It is said, it is true, that he as an individual shall continue in practice to exercise those powers, but subject at all times to the direction of the Human Rights Commission. 
The Attorney-General again endeavoured to play with this statutory language when this matter was previously debated by talking in terms of the Commissioner's being subject only to general directions. That response gets no nourishment from the statutory language, which talks simply about directions. Directions can be as specific as we like and can satisfy the statutory language that is here set out. Equally, it is apparent that  Mr Grassby,  under these new arrangements, is to have no control whatsoever over his staff, no powers with respect to hiring and firing and no powers with respect to the direction of priorities and work load amongst those staff members. A wholly unsatisfactory position has been created if the Government is genuinely serious about preserving the independence and the effectiveness, more importantly, of the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations. 
It is further obvious from the provisions of the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill that  Mr Grassby  will no longer have the right or the duty to prepare and deliver reports to the Parliament. As nearly all speakers acknowledged during the second reading debate, the series of reports that has come from the Commissioner has represented a magnificent contribution, meticulously documented, to our understanding of the scope and dimensions of Australian racism. The Commissioner is not to have the power any longer to produce those independent reports. The report of the activities of the Commissioner for Community Relations side of things will simply be submerged in a larger document representing the report of the Human Rights Commission as a whole, which of course will be prepared and endorsed by the Human Rights Commission of which  Mr Grassby  is not to be a member. For all these reasons it is thoroughly unsatisfactory that the Commissioner continue to operate in a kind of limbo land that is proposed by this legislation as it presently stands. Although it is not the optimal solution, it is certainly desirable that he become a member of the Commission. 
All the time throughout this debate the regret is that the Government, by one means or another, has maintained a facade of what can be described only as deception and hypocrisy. It has sought to pretend and claim to the community at large that nothing is changing, that something is being added to the present structure for the protection of human rights, but that nothing is being taken away and that it is business as usual as far as the Racial Discrimination Act and  Mr Grassby  are concerned. That is just not so on any reading of this legislation before the Parliament. For that reason it is crucially important that this chamber vote for at least the small chance of preserving  Mr Grassby  's effectiveness and the effectiveness of the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations that would be involved in making the Commissioner a member of the Human Rights Commission. 
-I ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  whether he would do the Committee the honour of confirming that the only possible inference that can be drawn from the remarks he has just made is that the Government proposes entirely to disband or repeal the statutory position of the Commissioner on the expiry of  Mr Grassby  's term. There would appear to be no other conclusion that it is capable for anyone in this chamber to draw, given the Attorney-General's reference to the Government's unhappiness with the present administrative structure, the fact that it would not have done it that way, and the reference to the need to accommodate in some way the reality of an existing statutory office holder with a term to run. Would he please, if that is indeed the Government's thinking, tell us directly what exactly the Government proposes to do and, in particular, whether it does propose to disband the position of Commissioner? 
Whether it is Grassby or not, but at the expiry of the present Commissioner's statutory term. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I make only one additional comment on the subject of clause 19. It is prompted by  Senator Carrick  's excursions on the subject of academic freedom and the inappropriateness of any such notion in the context of this debate and the Opposition's arguments about the effect of these clauses. I remind him again of the letter that he wrote, I assume, in 1977 to Liberal and National Country Party senators and members when in the course of resisting a suggestion that the Commonwealth use its powers to influence the control and conduct of student organisations- he is welcome to look at the document to see the passage I am referring to- he said: 
Again the question of desirability and necessity emerges. There is always a danger that future governments might see such an action- 
That is, governmental use of money and other powers to control student organisations- as a precedent for imposing limitations upon genuine academic freedom. 
I am not suggesting, with respect, that  Senator Carrick  was referring in that letter, by some sort of Nostradamus-like foresight, to the terms of this legislation. What I am suggesting is that he was referring to Government activity, either through the use of money power or legislative means, to control the way in which student organisations worked and how they might be dissuaded from supporting lunatic or extremist causes. I will repeat for the record what  Senator Carrick  said. I would be interested in his response. He said: 
There is always a danger that future governments might see such an action as a precedent for imposing limitations upon genuine, academic freedom. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 5 April 1 979: 
1 ) What travel and accommodation arrangements are provided for members of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal engaged on official Tribunal business. 
What was the cost of travel and accommodation and incidental expenses for Tribunal members, incurred during the calendar years 1977 and 1978. 
Where did the Tribunal  Chairman, Mr Bruce  Gyngell, reside during his visit to Townsville in July 1 977, to hear evidence before approving the takeover by Telecasters North Queensland Ltd of Ayr Broadcasters Pty Ltd. 
What guidelines or standards have the Minister and the Government set down for Tribunal members in respect of the personal association they may or may not have with participants in proceedings over which they exercise authority under the Broadcasting and Television Act 1 942. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I preface my remarks in speaking to that motion by saying that it is not the wish of the Opposition in any way to delay, hinder, interrupt or obstruct the conduct of Senate business or the proper consideration of statements brought forward by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  or of legislation or anything else. To the extent that the Opposition is proving difficult in regard to the granting of leave, the reasons should be obvious to all concerned from the course of events this morning. I can assure the Senate, and no doubt my colleagues would do likewise, that there would be no question of such difficulties being placed in the way of the orderly conduct of this chamber were the Government to change its attitude and allow my colleague,  Senator McLaren,  just a couple of minutes to make a statement which, in fairness and good sense, he should have been allowed to make earlier this morning. 
Let me come squarely to the terms of this motion to take note of the ministerial response. The ministerial response is, as with so many of the Attorney's statements to this Parliament, a disappointing one. The Government has accepted only the most innocuous of the Standing Committee's recommendations, that is, the recommendation that the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances be empowered through the parliamentary channels to forward recommendations to the judges about what rules of court should be. It has accepted that apparently innocuous statement but it has rejected the other major recommendations of the Committee. There were two such other major recommendations. Let me indicate very briefly what they were, why the Committee made them and why it is unfortunate that the Government has taken the attitude that it has. 
The first substantial recommendation of the Committee was that rules of superior Commonwealth courts should, as a general rule, be made by a rules committee comprising judges of the particular court and representatives of the legal profession regularly practising in that court. The substance of the recommendation was, of course, to extend the rule-making power beyond the simple confines of the judiciary and to create committees in which the legal profession would be properly represented. The Government has rejected this recommendation- the Attorney's statement says as much- on the grounds primarily that this would amount to undue interference by the Executive in the administration of justice. 
I suggest rather that the real reason for this rejection is simply an undue deference by the Executive and by this Government to the undue sensitivities of the judiciary. The reality of the matter is that the interests of the judiciary in the conduct of court matters are not always coextensive with the interests of those who come before the courts as litigants and as those who represent litigants. A good, clear example of this is quoted in the Senate Committee's report. I refer to the 1975 case of Queen v. Hass when the High Court of Australia ruled that it was not competent under the High Court's own judicially created rules for a litigant to appear in person to seek special leave to appeal. That is an extraordinary decision in principle and a quite unwarranted decision but one that was founded on the judges' desire not to have to suffer the imitation of appellants' appearing before them without professional representation. 
There are enormously significant ways in which rules of court can affect the rights of citizens. Although rules of court seem an exotic subject matter of no particular interest to the Parliament, to the Press or to the public, it is the case that procedural rules can greatly affect in a number of ways litigants and people who come before the courts. They can affect those who can bring claims to the extent that the rules of court go to things like standing and the possibility of representative actions. Rules of court can affect very significantly the chances of success that a litigant might have in an action to the extent that rules of court deal with matters like the discovery and the making available of evidence of one kind or another on which a litigant's case may very substantially depend. Also, they have great implications for the costs that litigants may have to pay insofar as they deal with and determine, among other things, the number and complexity of the procedural steps that must be accomplished in the course of a particular piece of litigation. 
For all of these reasons it is important that rules of court be made not just by the judges, sitting in their usual isolation from the real world but also that there should be a significant additional input to that process. The Committee's recommendation was a fairly cautious one insofar as it suggested that the input be from the legal profession. Others may think it more appropriate to widen the input to include community representatives or something of that kind. It was a cautious recommendation. Nonetheless, it should have been one acceptable to the Government as being sound in principle and unlikely to cause any significant difficulties in practice. There are in State jurisdictions plenty of precedents for rules and committees of the kind suggested. It is just unfortunate and regrettable that the Government has not found it possible to accept that recommendation. 
The other recommendation made by the Committee- again rejected out of hand by the Government- concerned the establishment of an Institute of Judicial Administration. The Committee recommended simply that the Government consider the establishing of such an institute to assist the judiciary in the administration of court systems and to provide information and advice to enable the judges to keep their rules of court practical, simple and up-to-date; or, alternatively, that funds be provided to assist the voluntary body of the same name which was established in 1978. The concept of an Institute of Judicial Administration was, as the report states, first mooted in 1 974 by  Mr Justice  Fox, in whose judgment the Government hitherto has demonstrated considerable confidence. The reasons it was mooted by Justice Fox are set out at length in the report, in which there is also reference to the precedents for such institutes of judicial administration in various overseas jurisdictions, notably the United States of America and Britain. 
There has also been very strong support for the concept of such an institute from  Mr Justice  Blackburn in the Australian Capital Territory. Indeed, he was the prime mover in establishing in 1978 the voluntary body to which the report refers. The Attorney-General says that there is just no demonstrated need for such an institute. Moreover, the Attorney-General says- this seems to be the real nub of his objections- that the judges themselves expressed differing views. However, I point out that the reality is that the only significant voice in opposition to the concept of having an Institute of Judicial Administration to assist, among other thing, the rule-making process was, as usual as might have been expected,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, who is quoted in the report as having this to say: 
I hold the vie w that a proper system of j judicial administration, set up by statute and administered by the judicial system itself, will keep the judicial machinery in good order much better than any voluntary body outside the judicial system. 

 Sir Garfield 's passion for preserving the powers, privileges and sanctity of the judiciary and the judicial process from any sullying by intrusion from the real world is well known. I suppose it has to be said that the deference that the Government shows here, as elsewhere, to the views of  Sir Garfield  is not surprising given the political and judicial services which that gentleman has rendered it in recent years; but it is becoming very tiresome for  Sir Garfield's  view on this or anything else to be regarded by the Government, as so often it seems to be, as being the last word, as being law. It is tiresome when one considersthis is a point made by the Committee in its report- that the establishment of such an institute would be in the best interests of the conduct of court administration in this country and of the Australian public. 
It is a matter for regret now, as it is so often, that when the Committee makes a reasoned consideration of a problem that has been drawn to its attention and produces reasoned conclusions of a moderate and practical kind for the solution thereof, the Government simply resists the implementation of those conclusions in the way in which the Attorney-General and the Government have done on this occasion. 
-When I commenced my speech on this Bill last Wednesday night a few minutes before the adjournment I indicated that the Opposition was not opposed to it but that we approached it with some reservations, in particular the reservation that we knew not whence the provisions in the Bill came; whether and to what extent they were the subject of Administrative Review Council recommendations or whether they were the product of the Government's own initiative. I am indebted to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  for his courtesy, after the conclusion of last Wednesday night's sitting, in subsequently supplying me with the document to which he has just referred, that is, the document headed 'Administrative Review Council Amendments to the Administrative Tribunal Act'. That document is of a somewhat obscure status. Nonetheless, it indicated to me- although it was undated and apparently incomplete- the range of the considerable number of Administrative Review Council recommendations on these questions to the Attorney-General. That document has probably been superseded by yet another document which has come into the public domain since last Wednesday. Of course, that is the third annual report of the Administrative Review Council which appears to embody all the particular recommendations that are contained in the document to which I have just referred, in addition to a number of other recommendations. So in continuing to refer to the question of what is and what is not the subject of recommendations from the Administrative Review Council, I think it may be more convenient if I concentrate my attention on the third annual report of the ARC. 
With respect, it is fuller in terms of its explanation of some of the items, but it seems to be less full in some other respects. It may be that we are just splitting hairs at the moment but, in any event, on the particular matters that I want to refer to it is certainly not very full at all; nor for that matter is the Administrative Review Council's actual report. 
The point I want to make is that the Opposition still has some concern on this particular question because it appears that there are still some matters in the Bill now before us which are not the subject of Administrative Review Council recommendation in any of this litter of documents to which we have been referring. Secondly, there seem to be some matters in the Bill which are less than fully argued for, even though they are the subject of some kind of recommendation by the ARC. Further, and perhaps more importantly than either of those two points, there is a very large number of recommendations from the Council relating to the jurisdiction and procedures of the Tribunal which do not feature at all in this legislation and which, it appears to me and to the Opposition, should have been picked up by the Government in bringing forward this legislation. We seek an explanation for the absence of those matters. 
I would welcome any corrections that might be forthcoming from the Attorney-General, but matters in the Bill which do not appear to be the subject on any Review Council recommendation anywhere include, for example, clause 7 which is a proposed amendment to section 43 of the Act relating to a power to specify the date at which a Tribunal decision may come into effect. It does not appear to be based on any recommendation from the Council that I can find. It may be, of course, that it is an entirely sensible and practical provision which will improve the flexibility of the Tribunal but we would like to know the patricular reason for it. We would like to be told whether it is just to serve departmental convenience, whether it has arisen out of any circumstance in which litigants would have an interest or whether it is simply something, as 1 have said, that the Government has dreamed up for reasons known only to itself. As to matters which are insufficiently explained in the ARC documentation that I have, I refer in particular to clauses 9 and 14. Clause 9 proposes a new section 44A in the Bill and clause 14 proposes an associated amendment to the Schedule of the Act. This is the question of stay orders in relation to decisions pending the determination of appeals to the Federal Court. 
One result of that stay provision, which I acknowledge in general terms is neither unusual nor a provision to which one could take exception, could be that a successful appellant to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal- for example, an appellant against a deportation order, a very serious matter- could still find himself on the receiving end if the Government chose in turn to appeal against that Tribunal decision to the prejudice of the litigant. He could find himself suffering the effect of the original ministerial decision, including being kept in gaol pending the determination- conceivably in many cases for months and months after the Administrative Appeals Tribunal decision in his favour has been made. 
Maybe that is an inevitable corollary of any provision for a stay order of that kind to a superior court following a decision of an inferior court or tribunal, as is the structural situation in this case. But I do think that that kind of serious consequence for successful appellants involving the liberty of the subject ought to be the subject of specific argument and justification, either by the Attorney-General in introducing and explaining the legislation or, preferably, by the Administrative Review Council, which is charged with the task of advising the AttorneyGeneral on such matters and, indeed, has made that recommendation. It may be that this matter has been addressed by the Review Council in some other document of which I am not aware, but it certainly does not appear to have been addressed in any of the documents with which I have been supplied or which have been tabled in this Parliament. 
As I said, perhaps more significantly than those kinds of concerns is the absence from the Bill now before us of any provisions embodying or picking up a number of recommendationsquite specific and careful recommendationswhich have been made by the Administrative Review Council in respect of the structure and procedures of the Tribunal. I indicate half a dozen of the more significant of such matters which have been recommended to the AttorneyGeneral and are reported in the third annual report of the Council, but which do not appear to get any attention in the Bill now before us. The first such matter to which I refer is a recommendation that there should be an automatic notification of the right of appeal to persons who are on the receiving end of governmental decisions involving the exercise of administrative discretions. That is the subject matter of a recommendation reported in paragraph 78 of the third report. 
Then again, the Council has recommended that section 28 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act should be amended to confer a specific right upon the persons who are affected by administrative decisions to be furnished with the precise terms of that decision. That would require a simple amendment to include a provision which might be thought to be implicit in the existing section 28 but which, nonetheless, was thought by the Administrative Review Council to be important enough to justify legislative correction or redress. Surely such a recommendation in principle is not unacceptable to the Government, but why is it not given effect in this Bill? 
The third matter, and a very important one, is a recommendation by the Council that section 1 9 of the present Act should be changed to create a new divisional structure for the Administrative Appeals Tribunal which would enable it to operate more flexibly and more efficiently, given the experience of the exercise of its various jurisdictions which so far have been accumulated. That recommendation is contained in paragraph 83 of the third report. A further matter is an associated recommendation, contained in paragraph 84 of the report, that a power be vested in the  President  to vary the composition of the Tribunal in certain ways for different purposes to create, again, a greater degree of flexibility than exists at the moment. A further matter which has been recommended by the Council but which has not been given effect in the Bill is a suggested amendment to section 25 (5) of the Act, which would enable the Tribunal to review failures to make decisions within a reasonable time. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m.  ( Quorum formed). 
The remaining matter I mention is one that was recommended by the Administrative Review Council but which is conspicuously absent from the terms of the Bill before us. I refer to paragraph 922 of the third report which recommends that there be incorporated in section 45 of the Act a provision to enable the hearing of evidence in the absence of the parties in certain circumstances. It is a simple but convenient procedural device and one which no doubt would aid the proceedings of the Tribunal, but again one which has not been adopted. All these provisions and others that I have mentioned were recommended by the Tribunal during the year ending 30 June 1979, so there has been ample time for them to be assimilated and evaluated by the Government and an attitude determined. 
Presumably this body, having been set up, would expect its advice to be taken. But it has not, and the Opposition wants to know why. The Opposition wants to know why particularly when it looks at some of the provisions which have been adopted and picked up. As an example I refer to the proposed amendment to section 50 of the Act which will enable the appointment to the Review Council of persons not only, as has hitherto been required, with experience in public administration, government or administrative law- all of them qualities of experience which one would regard as highly relevant- but also with experience in industry or commerce. It may be that there is good reason in the Review Council 's mind for making this recommendation and seeking not to discriminate between available personnel for the Council and qualities that are acceptable for appointment to the Tribunal. One cannot help but notice that qualifications of that kind- experience in industry and commerceare not especially obviously relevant to the work of the Administrative Review Council but do, nonetheless, enable the appointment of people whom the present Government might want to assist in some way. This might be another avenue, to put it more plainly, for jobs for the boys. Is that why this recommendation has been picked up and others have not, or is there some other more rational explanation for what is in and what is out? If there is, we would like to hear it. 
Let me move beyond considerations of that kind to raise with the Senate some slightly broader considerations about the whole operation of the present administrative review system which are prompted by the Government's introduction of this Bill. The first matter to which I want to refer is the unsatisfactory state of affairs that presently exists with respect to the jurisidiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. It will be remembered that the Bland Committee report back in 1973 recommended a very substantial body of jurisdiction to be vested in the Tribunal. Regrettably a great deal of that specific jurisdiction that was so recommended has not yet been picked up. The Administrative Review Council has readily and consistently acknowledged that state of affairs in its successive reports. In its first report it provided in an appendix a table comparing the jurisdiction of the Tribunal with that recommended by the Bland Committee. 
In its second report it acknowledged that a comparison of the jurisdiction that had been vested with that which had been recommended by the Bland Committee indicated that a considerable distance needed still to be travelled in order to pick up all that jurisdiction. In the third report which is now before the Parliament there was again an acknowledgment that a considerable gap still exists between the Bland recommendations and the Tribunal's actual jurisdiction. That is not to say, of course, that a great deal of jurisdiction on the face of it has not been vested in the Tribunal. In fact on my count there are about 65 instruments and, in respect of those instruments, over 200 separate provisions which are now appealable to the Tribunal, a good many of those instruments being those enacted since the time of the Bland report. It might be appropriate, for the record, to seek the incorporation in  Hansard  of a document showing the jurisdiction of the Tribunal as it existed at 1 July this year and as is reported in an appendix to the third report. I seek leave to incorporate the document in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS TRIBUNAL DECISIONS SUBJECT TO REVIEW 
The following list is a brief summary of the particular decisions that are subject to review by the Tribunal as at 1 July 1979. For full details of these decisions, it is necessary to refer to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act as well as the enactments listed. 
G.MILLS Registrar 
Air Navigation Regulations, Regulation 254- Decisions refusing, suspending or cancelling certificates or licences, otherwise than under Reg. 256 or 257. 
Audit Act, Section 70 AC- Determination of liability for loss of or deficiency in public moneys or damage or loss of public property. 
ACT Gun Licence Ordinance, Section 7P- Refusal to grant or review a gun licence, a pistol licence or dealer's licence; refusal to approve a pistol club, cancellation of approval; refusal to approve persons or cancellation of approval; police objections to licences. 
ACT Hawkers Ordinance, Section 27A- Refusal to grant a permit, revocation of a permit or imposition of conditions. 
ACT Lakes Ordinance, Section 51, 14(2), 26 and 34- Determination of compensation, revocation of authority to use power boat and cancellation of licence to sell or hire goods et cetera in a lake area. 
ACT Land Rent and Rates (Deferment and Remission) Ordinance, Section 2 1 F- Determination of notional unimproved value of prescribed land. 
ACT Physiotherapists Registration Ordinance, Section 35- Refusal, suspension or cancellation of registration, refusal to grant certificate; reprimand or refusal to extend period for executor to continue business. 
ACT Poisons and Narcotics Drugs Ordinance, Section 10- Authorisations to have in possession a substance for research purposes. 
ACT Public Health (Prohibited Drugs) Ordinance, Section 6A ( 1 )- Authorisations to have in possession a prohibited drug for research purposes. 
ACT Rates Ordinance, Section 29- Decision on objection to a determination of unimproved value. 
ACT Roads and Public Places Ordinance, Section 15G- Refusal to grant a permit, cancellation of a permit or imposition of a condition. 
ACT Sale of Motor Vehicles Ordinance, Section 57- Refusal or revocation of a licence or specification of a period to reapply. 
ACT Schools Authority Regulations, Regulation 61 - Decision of Authority declaring an election to be void or refusal of a declaration. 
ACT Surveyors Ordinance, Section 49A- Review of fees and charges. 
ACT Taxation Administration Act, Section 20- Revocation of authority to banker relating to stamp duty on cheques. 
Australian Film Commission Act, Section 10 - Requirement of proportion of Australian short films to be exhibited. 
Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation Act, Sections 10 and 12- Refusal to grant, cancellation or suspension of a licence. 
Automatic Data Processing Equipment Bounty Act, Sections 5(1), 9, 10(1), 12, 12(7), 12(8) and 14-Decisions on eligibility for bounty and on registration of premises. 
Bed Sheeting Bounty Act, Sections 9, 10, 11, 11 (7), 11 (8) and 13- Decisions on eligibility for bounty, registration of premises and quantum of security. 
Bounty (Agricultural Tractors) Act, Sections 6 (5), 6 (6), 8, 9(1), 11 (3), 11 (6), 11 (8) and 17-Decisions on eligibility to and rate of bounty, registration of premises and amount of security. 
Bounty (Books) Act, Sections 3a (2), 3a (3), 4(2), 4 (2a), 4 (3), 4aa (2), 4aa (3), 9, 9a, 1 1, 1 1 (6), 1 1 (7) and 16- L Decisions on eligibility to bounty, registration of premises and quantum of security. 
Bounty (Commercial Motor Vehicles) Act 1978, Sections 4(4), 5, 8 (3), 9, 10, 12, 12(6), 12 (7) and 14-Decisions on eligibility to bounty, registration of premises and quantum of security. 
Bounty (Dental Alloys) Act, Sections 8, 9, 10, 10 (7), 10 (8) and 12- Decisions on eligibility to bounty, registration of premises and security. 
Bounty (Drilling Machines) Act, Sections 4(1), 8, 9, 10(5), 10(7), 10(8) and 12-Decisions on eligibility to bounty and on registration of premises. 
Bounty (Injection-moulding Equipment) Act, Sections 5 ( 1), 9, 10, 12, 12 (6), 12 (7) and 14-Decisions on eligibility to bounty, registration of premises and security. 
Bounty (Metal- Working Machine Tools) Act, Sections 4(1), 8,9, 11, 11(6), 11 (7) and 1 3-Decisions on eligibility to and rate of bounty, registration of premises and amount of security. 
Bounty (Paper) Act, Sections 10, 11, 12, 12(7), 12(8) and 14- Decisions on eligibility to bounty, registration of premises and security. 
Bounty (Polyester-Cotton Yarn) Act, Sections 9, 10, 12, 12 (7), 12(8) and 14- Decisions on eligibility to bounty and on registration of premises. 
Bounty (Rotary Cultivators) Act, Sections 5(1), 12, 13, 14, 14 (7), 14 (8) and 16- Decisions on eligibility to bounty, registration of premises and security. 
Broadcasting and Television Act, Section 1 19A, (Sections 85, 86, 86 (6a), 87, 88, 89a, 90j, 92f, 105ab, 119(2))- Variation, revocation and imposition of conditions on licences; refusal to renew licence; refusal to grant extension of time to lodge an application or reply; suspension and revocation of licence; refusal of consent to transfer of licence; refusal of approval to changes in share ownership; determination of metropolitan areas; refusal to grant or renew a licence for broadcasting or television translator stations for retransmission outside a metropolitan area; restrictions on participation in broadcasts or television. 
Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty Act, Sections 9, 10(3), 10 (4) and 10 (5)- Decisions on eligibility to bounty and on registration of premises. 
Coal Excise Act, Sections 12 and 16- Grant of and transfer of licence with security. 
Commerce (Trade Descriptions) Act, Sections 7 (3), 10, 11(3) and 1 3- Delivery of and release of seized goods. 
Copyright Act, Section 135 (6)- Delivery on security of copies of a work liable to be forfeited. 
Customs Act, Sections 35A, Division 1 of Part V, 1 19, 126, 132B, 132C, 133(3), 151(8) (a), 151a, 157(4), 160, 164b, 167 (1), 183a and 183b- Various matters arising under the Customs Act. 
Customs Regulations, Regulations 128B, 132(2), 129, 131, 133 and 134- Refunds, etc. of duty and decisions in relation to draw-back of duty. 
Customs Tariff, Sections 7, 8 and 31- Directions as to value and determinations of F.O.B. price and landed costs. 
Dairy Industry Stabilisation Act 1977, Section 24a (section 1 1a)- Determination or variation of quotas for dairy products. 
Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act, Section 99- Decisions of the Authority. 
Distillation Act, Sections 20 and 24- Grant, transfer and cancellation of licence to distil. 
Dried Vine Fruits Equalization Act, Sections 11(5), 12 (3) and 19 (3)- Release of liability; remission of amount payable; direction of no further payments. 
Dried Vine Fruits Equalization Levy Act, Section 5 (2)- Decision of authorized person. 
Excise Act, Sections 5a, 40, 43, 59a, 59b, 60 and 154- Grant and cancellation of licence, quota orders and disputes regarding amount or rate of duty. 
Excise Regulations, Regulations 58, 76, 77, 78, 78a and 78B- Refunds, etc, of excise duty and decisions in relation to drawback of duty. 
Export Expansion Grants Act, Section 17 (Not yet proclaimed)- Decisions of the Board. 
Export-Market Development Grants Act, Section 40a (Not yet proclaimed)- Decisions of the Board. 
Home Savings Grant Act, Section 40- Decisions of the Secretary to the Department. 
Income Tax Assessment Act, Section 25 1K- Cancellation of registration as tax agent. 
Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act, Section 4 1 -Decisions by the Board in connection with an application for a commencement grant. 
Insurance Act, Sections 27, 30, 31, 33, 36, 41, 46, 5 1, 62, 93, 105 and 1 13- Various decisions, directions and determinations of Treasurer and Commissioner. 
Insurance (Deposits) Act, Section 17- Decisions of the Treasurer as to the net liability or premium income of person carrying on insurance business; value of securities deposited; amount of deposit. 
Life Insurance Act, Sections 16A, 19(1), 23a (2), 39 (2), 40 (8), 47, 52 (3), 58 (l)-Various decisions and determinations of Commissioner. 
Marriage Act, Division 1 of Part IV Section 33- Refusal to register as marriage celebrant or removal from register. 
Metal Working Machine Tools Bounty Act, Sections 3(2), 5, 9, 10, 12 (3), 12 (6), 12 (7) and 12 (8)-Decisions on eligibility to and rate of bounty and on registration of premises. 
Migration Act, Sections 12, 13 and 48- Deportation of aliens and immigrants and directions not to act as immigration agent. 
Narcotic Drugs Act, Sections 9, 10, 12 and 13- Refusal to grant or revocation of licence to manufacture or specification of conditions of licence. Directions with respect to security of premises, handling of narcotic materials, manufacturing and labelling of drugs. 
National Health Act, Sections 13, 14, 73, 73b, 73be, 73BFB, 73d, 78, 90 and 95- Refusal to approve a person as an approved patient, attendant or escort. Refusal of application for registration of medical or hospital benefits organization. 
Imposition or variation of terms or conditions of registration; direction to organizations; refusal to approve changes of rules etc.; refusal to give a direction requested by an organization. 
Direction as to extent to which the provision of a service or of treatment is to be treated as payment of benefits. 
Approval of pharmaceutical chemist, suspension or revocation of the approval or authority of a medical practitioner or pharmaceutical chemist. 
Direction to reinstate a person as a contributor to a medical benefit fund. 
Approval of a dental practitioner as a participating dental practitioner. 
National Health Regulations, Regulation 12 -Decisions on payment of accommodation allowances for patients and approved escorts who live in isolated areas and are referred to consulting physicians at distant towns. 
Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Act, Section 23a- Decisions on eligibility to and rate of subsidy, registration of premises and amount of security. 
NT Petroleum Products Subsidy Ordinance, Section 5- Direction as to treatment of goods for purpose of a scheme; refusal or revocation of registration as a distributor of eligible petroleum products. 
Ombudsman Act, Section 1 1 -Reference for an advisory opinion. 
Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Act, Section 54- Decisions of the Commissioner for Superannuation. 
Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Act 1948, Section 25- Decisions of the Trust. 
Patents Act, Sections 47E, 98, 154, 159c, 160, 77(4), 106 ( 1 ) and Part XV- Various matters including, in specified situations, refusal to register a patent-attorney, restoration of lapsed application, restoration of patents, directions to coowners, applications for licences, extensions of time, consent of mortgagee or licensee to amendment of complete specifications, surrender of patent and refusal to register a patent-attorney. 
Patent-Attorney Regulations, Regulation 27- Removal of patent-attorney from register. 
Patent Regulations, Regulations 7b (8), 16f(6), 44 and 52- Grant or refusal of restoration of lapsed application. Grant or refusal of licence where lapsed applications are restored. 
Phosphate Fertilizer Bounty Act, Sections 7, 10, 11, 13 and 19- Decisions on eligibility for bounty and registration of premises. 
Postal By-laws, By-laws 126, 222 and 296- Compensation for articles lost, damaged or delayed during transmission or by the courier service; registration and classification of publications; retention of articles posted abroad. 
Repatriation Act, Section 107 VZZB- The  President  of the Repatriation Review Tribunal may refer to the Tribunal a decision of the Commission which involved an important principle of general application with respect to entitlement or assessment of pension. 
Spirits Act, Section 20- Grant of Licence to make or sell methylated spirits. 
State Grants (Petroleum Products) Act, Section 5- Direction as to treatment of goods for purposes of a scheme; refusal or revocation of registration as a distributor of eligible petroleum products. 
Superannuation Act, Section 154- All decisions under the Act or the superseded Act. 
Telecommunications (General) By-laws, By-law 45- Notice to alter, remove or re-erect ponton of a telecommunications installation because of interference. 
Trade Marks Act, Sections 70 (2), 71 (1), 103(2), 127(1) and 131 (1)- Various matters including, in specified muations, removal of trade mark from register, restoration of trade mark to register, correction of applications for registration, extension of time and delivery of forfeited goods on security. 
Wine Grapes Levy Collection Act- Remission of penalties for non-payment of levy. 
An examination of that jurisdiction as listed will indicate that while undoubtedly there has been some progress in the vesting of a body of jurisdiction in the Tribunal, nonetheless a number of problems or deficiencies reveal themselves. The first is this: Although it is true to say that there are some important matters which are appealable and which do run in quite high volume to the Tribunal- I instance, in particular, deportation cases in respect of which my colleague,  Senator Mulvihill,  will have something more to say at the Committee stagenonetheless a very large proportion of the statutes and regulations which are in respect of one provision or another appealable to the Tribunal are quite obscure and indeed trivial matters where, in fact, experience has been that there has been only a very small volume of decision making and an even smaller volume of appeals mounted. The list is absolutely full of instruments like the Australian Capital Territory Physiotherapists Registration Ordinance, the Bed Sheeting Bounty Act and other exotic pieces of legislation. Any cursory evaluation of the list and indeed a more detailed one will indicate that it is just a ragtag and bobtail collection with no obvious coherence to it. 
The second point to make about the jurisdiction presently vested in the Tribunal is that there is a conspicuous absence from that jurisdiction either wholly or substantially of some of the really major areas of governmental decision making. I instance, in particular, social security appeals which have been the subject of a great deal of consideration by various governmental bodies, not least the Administrative Review Council, over the last couple of years but which seem, once again, to create nothing but inertia when it comes to government implementation of changes in the existing but quite unhappy procedures in that important area. Again in the immigration and citizenship area where appeals are necessary- these matters are the subject of a great deal of investigation, thought and recommendation- there is no significant appellate jurisdiction in the Tribunal. This also applies to the primary industry area and to a vast array of matters covered under Customs legislation which are of great interest and importance to the commercial sector of our community. I also refer to matters relating to public service employment, legal aid and insurance legislation. Insurance is an important area that is not covered at all by the present jurisdiction. All of these matters, as well as a number of others we are told are awaiting Administrative Review Council consideration and report to the Government. 
The third matter of jurisdiction to which I wish to direct attention is that a number of quite important areas of jurisdiction recorded on the Administrative Appeals Tribunal list as being vested in the Tribunal nevertheless cannot be exercised in practice because they have not yet been proclaimed. One such example, taken more or less at random, is that of the export finance legislation which was the subject of some critical comments by me in respect of this particular provision in a debate on the Senate on 2 1 November 1978. That was 12 months ago and to my knowledge- again I am happy to be correctedthat particular jurisdiction still awaits proclamation so that it may become operative. 
The final matter to note about the jurisdiction of the Tribunal is that it does not extend to a number of matters which desirably ought to be appealable before the Tribunal and which have arisen out of the recent enactment of either major legislation or subordinate legislation. So far as subordinate legislation is concerned, questions as to the reviewability of administrative discretions continually come before the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee. Very often that Committee has drawn the attention of the appropriate Minister to the absence of appeal procedures. In some instances, I readily acknowledge that the Ministers have taken up the Committee's recommendation and have managed to persuade the Attorney-General that the jurisdiction ought to be vested in the Tribunal. But there are a number of other matters- I take it that  Senator Missen  who is to follow me in the debate will readily verify this-in respect of which the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has received the unsatisfactory reply that the desirability of a review procedure is acknowledged but that there are resource problems associated with giving the jurisdiction in question to the Tribunal and that under the circumstances the vesting of any such review jurisdiction must await a full consideration of the matter, the balancing of priorities and so on. That has been the kind of reply that we have received, certainly in respect of the Customs area, and also in regard to a number of matters that the Committee has dealt with recently relating to overseas territories. 
So the situation with respect to the Tribunal 's jurisdiction is unsatisfactory. Moreover, it is very difficult to get from the Government a clear picture of the overall situation. We have a picture of what actual jurisdiction the Tribunal now enjoys but it has been very difficult to extract from the Government some indication of how much jurisdiction has been proposed in one court or another to be vested in the Tribunal- what is in effect in the pipeline so far as the Tribunal is concerned and the kinds of jurisdiction that the Government is willing to vest in the Tribunal when it decides to make the necessary resources available. This is a matter that I have been pursuing for some time in the Estimates Committee. For instance, I raised the matter in Estimates Committee B on 7 May 1979. I asked the Attorney-General what the situation was so far as matters of jurisdiction of this kind were concerned. The Attorney-General answered that the demands for legislation and, for vesting appellate or review jurisdiction in the Tribunal, were running ahead of the Government's resources and that he would do his best to give some indication of what that level of demand was. Although I raised the matter again in the Committee of the Whole on 29 May, and in various other ways subsequently, I still await an answer. The Senate- certainly the Opposition members- awaits an overall picture of just where the Government thinks it is going. 
It is clear despite the Attorney-General's willingness to be robust in his replies on this matter that the Government is embarrassed by this question of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal's jurisdiction. It ought to be. This whole question of the new administrative law is assuming the dimensions of a national confidence trick. We have an elaborate administrative law structure. On paper it is a good structure, one that is the envy of many elsewhere- in the States and, indeed, in common law jurisdictions overseas. But that whole new structure, attractive as it may look on paper, does not mean very much for most people in Australia who are presently affected by discretionary administrative decisions. The Tribunal just does not have vested in it the range of jurisdiction that it needs. 
There are a number of reasons why this seems to be so. The most important is simply the tightfistedness of this Government in not making available the resources needed by the Tribunal to do its job properly. The national establishment for the Tribunal looks, on the face of it, to be quite substantial. It has one full-time  president, Mr Justice  Brennan, four full-time  deputy  presidents, two senior full-time members, two senior part-time members and 18 ordinary parttime members. That, at least, was the situation, as I understand it, as at 19 October. There may have been an increase of one or two in the number of personnel since but the reality is that most of the Tribunal's members operate parttime. The bulk of the establishment is parttime in practice, very part-time indeed. A better idea of the actual scale of the Tribunal's operation is conveyed not by listing the actual membership proper but rather its support staff. One notes that the staff available to service these multitudinous members throughout Australia numbers just 23. It is proposed in this year's Estimates to extend that number to 27 to service the operation of a proper appellate administrative structure for the whole of Australia. That is manifestly, on its face, quite unsatisfactory. The resources simply must be made available if the system is to mean anything and not be just a shop window exercise. 
At this stage, I want to make some positive suggestions for the Government's attention, other than those involving simply the expenditure of money. It is .obvious that one of the reasons for the inadequate vesting of jurisdiction in the Tribunal is the delays that have occurred in the work of the Administrative Review Council, on whose advice the Government quite properly relies, or purports to rely, in these matters. The membership of the Administrative Review Council is, on the face of it, very impressive indeed. It is such as to inspire considerable confidence in the quality of its recommendations. Indeed, that confidence is borne out by any reading of the reports of the Council. 
It consists of the following ex-officio members: The  President, Mr Justice  Brennan, the Commonwealth Ombudsman, Professor Richardson and  Mr Justice  Michael Kirby, as  Chairman  of the Australian Law Reform Commission. In addition, the appointed members are:  Mr Michael  Codd,  Deputy  Secretary, Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet;  Mr Daniels,  Secretary, Department of the Capital Territory;  Sir Frederick  Deer, an ex-General Manager of M.L.C. Assurance Co. Ltd;  Mr Gyles,  Q C, a Sydney barrister;  Mr Neaves,  Secretary, Attorney-General's Department;  Mr Keys,  national Secretary of the Returned Services League;  Mr Kolts,  Second Parliamentary Counsel;  Mr Linehan  of the Industrial Relations Bureau; and  Mr Tucker,  a Melbourne businessman so described. That might be, on the face of it, an impressive body of personnel but there is one  thing to note about the make-up of the Administrative Review Council, a body which is established under the Act, an amendment to which we are now considering. That is that all the members of the Review Council are part-time members and, as such, they necessarily operate within very tight constraints. They get together at best about one day per month. They are serviced by a small secretariat of just six people, including three highly qualified and highly competent researchers under the directorship of  Dr Graham  Taylor. But there is a question as to whether both the composition and strength in terms of numbers of the research staff, and in particular the composition and operation of the Review Council, are sufficient to perform the huge task that this Government has placed upon its shoulders. One measure of the extent to which that Review Council has been able to perform its task, in particular a measure of how far it is lagging behind in terms of fulfilling the obligations placed upon it in terms of making recommendations on these critical questions of jurisdiction, is a list of current priorities of the Review Council which that body has recently made available. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the current priorities list of the Administrative Review Council. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-I congratulate  Senator Rae  on a thoroughly admirable, balanced, rational and restrained speech. It is fascinating that the one Government member to have anything to say on the Australian National University Amendment Bill and the Canberra College of Advanced Education Amendment Bill which is consistent with the objections that the Opposition has taken, even if not always for exactly the same reasons, is the one member on the Government side who knows what he is talking about in the sense that he is, and has been for a long time, a member of the Australian National University Council. He has lived with these problems, he knows all the people concerned, he knows the nature of the issues, and he has tried to resolve them without the necessity for the kind of ham-fisted legislation that we have at the moment. I would only hope that as this debate proceeds he reconsiders his stated intention simply to abstain from the vote on this matter and in fact supports the Opposition amendment which, as  Senator Tate  has indicated, is directly aimed at those provisions of the two Bills which are concerned with student fees and organisations on the basis that for a variety of reasons they are quite inappropriate in legislation. 
As has been made quite clear by the Opposition, although from what  Senator Rae  said it may need to be made clear again, we have no objections at all to those provisions of the two Bills which relate to the structure or functioning of the university on matters such as the composition of academic boards. The provisions which I have just mentioned were the subject of consultation and discussion and, in many cases, requests from the university concerned. Our objection is to those provisions which do not appear to have satisfied those criteria; namely, clauses 16 and 1 9 of the Australian National University Bill and clauses 5 and 6 of the Canberra College of Advanced Education Bill. They are, for all practical purposes, identical except to the extent that the CAE Bill contains, in both those clauses, an additional overriding ministerial discretion which means that even if the Council in question were minded to act in favour of the student organisations in question, the Minister for Education could still override the Council. 
In looking at these Bills one does notice that there have been some modifications in their terms since they were originally introduced in November 1 978. The Opposition is duly grateful for that. But they are still heavy-handed, politically-motivated interferences in internal college and university affairs. They still amount to an unjustified interference in student organisations; an interference with the principle of student control of student organisations through ordinary democratic processes. Moreover, they are interferences which are unjustified by any existing state of affairs, either within the ANU, the CAE or the general state of Australian tertiary student affairs. Moreover, these provisions have been brought forward with a quite unprecedented lack of consultation, not just with the student organisations- that is perfectly normalbut with the university and the college. That is not normal and it is much to be regretted. 
The lack of consultation is something that  Senator Puplick  seemed most anxious to deny. I did not notice  Senator Rae,  who knows precisely what happened, being anxious to support  Senator Puplick  on that any more than on anything else. The absence of effective consultation and advance notification of governmental intention was the subject not only of the Crawford letter, which has been the subject of some altercation; it also was referred to, as  Senator Puplick  pointed out, in that part of the 1 978 ANU report which represents the annual report of the ViceChancellor. The Vice-Chancellor says as follows: 
The Government's announcement in mid-year - 
Referring to mid- 1978-  was the first time that can be recalled when a government had announced specific proposals for changes in the University's Act before discussing these with the University itself. The University is dismayed at this proceeding, not only because of the absence of consultation on this point - 
He was referring to the oversight of student organisations-  but also because the Government's announcement marks a serious departure from the principle that the governing body of the University should have full responsibility for the determination of policies devised under broad guidelines provided by its Act. 
I do not know whether  Senator Puplick  is calling the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Low, a liar. That is what he appeared to be doing. If he did so it is most regrettable and quite unable to be understood. It is a conscious and deliberate statement by the Vice-Chancellor and I find it impossible to believe that he is telling anything other than the whole truth. 
In talking about the terms of the Bills let me deal with the compulsory membership clause, clause 1 9 of the ANU Bill. A similar provision is contained in the Canberra College of Advanced Education Bill. This was the clause that  Senator Puplick  regarded as the most important. Indeed, it is the aspect of this legislation which may appear to many people to be the less offensive of the provisions which are attacked by the Opposition. Nonetheless, there are good grounds for attacking the compulsory membership, or the non-compulsory membership- perhaps to describe it more accurately- clauses in this proposed legislation. 
There are two basic things wrong with this provision. The first is that even if one accepts the legitimacy of the content of that clause as it is presently written, it is wrong that this kind of provision be embodied in legislative form, given the circumstances which lie behind its introduction. As  Senator Rae  has said, although not in the degree of detail one would have hoped, given the contribution he would have been able to make to explain the history of this matter, the fact is that the University, after a long period wrestling with this very difficult problem has, for better or worse, adopted its own identical ground rules so far as student organisation membership is concerned. Membership of any student organisation at the ANU, under the rules there devised and now operating, is not compulsory. Any student can avoid being designated and regarded as a member of a student organisation simply by ticking a 'no' box beside the name of the organisation in question on his enrolment form. I understand that some 1 5 per cent of the students at the ANU have taken advantage of this opting out clause this year. For the Government to insist now on embodying this internally adopted procedure in legislative form is just grossly offensive to the good faith and integrity of the University Council of which  Senator Rae  is a member. It should be rejected as unnecessary. If for no other reason it should be rejected because it is offensive. 
I go further than that. I seek to persuade the Senate that not only is it wrong to proceed with that provision for that reason, which is the basis on which I understood  Senator Rae  was rejecting that clause, but for another reason also. It is this: It is wrong in principle to go as far as this clause does. It is easy to say that freedom of association, a concept with which I am obviously in complete accord, implies, as a necessary corollary to it, the freedom not to associate. The issue is, and always has been, a little bit more complicated than that when one is talking about the membership of unions or associations from which the members derive some obvious benefit. Trade unions are the most obvious context in which this question has been traditionally debated. I will argue in a moment that the ANU association and its equivalent, the Canberra College body, are properly described as bodies of a trade union kind- an association from the membership of which the members and other people derive benefits. 
I accept unequivocally that genuine conscientious objection to membership of an organisation should be a ground for exemption, but when the person in question does derive benefits from that organisation, fairness demands, equity demands, that the onus be upon the objector to establish that his objection is a genuinely conscientious one. If one is looking for criteria for conscientious objection one could perhaps advance, as I have before in this chamber, criteria such as the following: That the objection reflects a genuine moral position; that it is compelling in character; that it has had some durability over time; that it just does not represent flash-in-the-pan thinking or activity of the individual in question; and, furthermore, that it somehow represents a subordination of self-interest and is not just someone looking out for himself, seeking to save himself some money or advance his interests in some other ways. 
I think, although it can be difficult in particular cases, that it is possible to identify genuinely conscientious beliefs and that those beliefs should be taken into account with the membership of student organisations as with any other organisation. There ought to be no doubt that the Australian National University Students Association- I will take it as the example because I have less information about the students' association of the Canberra College of Advanced Education; indeed, it seems to be rather less active on all fronts than its university counterparts- is a union-type body from which its members and indeed all those students at the university do in face derive genuine benefits. The activities of that body, which is a democraticallyelected and constituted body- I take it that nobody has seriously contested this- are such as to justify that description. 
It is concerned with representing the interests of students to a variety of faculty boards and other administrative bodies within the University. It is concerned with the provision of secretarial, duplicating and telephone services and financial grants to something like 50 clubs and societies. Indeed, I understand that the largest single financial grant last year was to the Australian Liberal Students Federation on that campus. The Association acts as a resource and information centre to assist students with a variety of inquiries. It runs, either by funding or by direct administration, the following student services: The loan fund; the newspaper and magazine; the orientation handbook; two campus creches; low-cost accommodation at Lennox House; and crisis accommodation in a cottage, so called. It supplies arts and craft equipment and operates a bulk food co-operative. It runs parents' day, orientation week and bush week. It runs a campus radio station and the Childers Street Theatre. For a variety of reasons which are obvious and which could be spelt out in much more detail if I were minded to do so and the Government Whip were minded to let me do so, one could say about the operation of the Students Association that, as a body of that kind, it genuinely represents the interests of students. 
There are, no doubt, those who nonetheless, whatever the range of useful activities that Association might perform, have sincere objections to what that organisation does, and perhaps what it resolves and says and the kinds of campaigns it runs. How does one handle that kind of objection? I believe that the appropriate mechansim under circumstances in which one has an organisation which is performing very obvious services and providing very obvious benefits for the students in question is that there ought not to be a universal opting-out clause of the kind that has now been accepted by the University and is proposed to be sledge-hammered in over the informalised legislation form. I believe that the appropriate way of dealing with genuine objections is simply to start with the principle of compulsory unionism, if you like, but readily acknowledging the legitimacy of genuine conscientious objection and creating a mechanism, as the University tried to do when this matter first blew up in 1977, which will filter out the genuine cases and allow their position to be respected. 
Might I say just one other thing on the subject of conscientious objection. I think an awful lot of cant is talked about conscientious objection to an organisation which is based simply on an objection to one or other activity in which that organisation might engage, one or other way that that organisation might spend its funds or one or other kind of resolution that that organisation might, by majority of vote, have adopted. I take the view- I believe it is shared by a number of my colleagues; indeed, I would not be surprised if it was shared by some people on the other side of the chamber- that the appropriate way of dealing with an organisation of which one is a member and which does things that one does not like or may even find morally objectionable is the ordinary, time-honoured way, the democratic way, of gathering the forces to change the policy of that organisation, perhaps changing the executive membership of the organisation in question. That is the remedy of shareholders of a company who dislike some of the way in which the company is conducting its affairs. The remedy of taxpayers in society at large who have the most acute moral objection to some way in which the Government spends their money is to use the democratic process of the ballot box or its equivalent. So too, I suggest, is that the normal and appropriate way of dealing with objections, not to the organisation as such, but to individual things that it might do. That, after all, is the nub of objection that has been pursued throughout this whole lengthy debate by the opponents of the Australian Union of Students and those who have pursued this campaign of action on particular campuses, including the campus of the ANU. 
Might I draw to the Senate's attention and in particular to the attention of  Senator Carrick,  who after all is responsible for this legislation, 

 Senator Carrick 's views on this subject, as committed to paper on 3 March 1976 in a letter that seems to have had wider circulation than it was generally intended to have. It was addressed to the General Secretary of the Western Australian Division of the Liberal Party of Australia on the subject of membership of student organisations.  Senator Carrick  had this to say: 
I share the concern of your members that any student body should promote international terrorism and antizionism. These are wholly non-Australian and they are evil concepts. 
However, as within the trade union movement, the cure must originate basically from the members themselves. It is within the students' unions to rectify the matter. 
It is an important problem and I would be happy to discuss it further. In other days I have participated- successfully too- in the marshalling of student ideas and energies towards the democratic process. 
I could not have put it better or more succinctly than it appears in the text of  Senator Carrick  's letter. That is the way of handling objections to the particular policies and resolutions of organisations that he finds offensive. The way to handle them is to operate through the democratic process. I fear that I have to remind  Senator Carrick  of another piece of correspondence which he directed to all Liberal and National Country Party members and senators. Unfortunately, my copy is undated, but I suspect it was written in about 1977. Again under the subject heading of Extremist Student Activities', he said: 
Nevertheless, in many such cases the fault lies with the failure of the general student body to participate in the election of office bearers and in the general critical comment of the actions of the office bearers throughout the year. If there is to be an elected body of any sort its success or failure will depend fairly heavily upon student participation. 
He is, of course, speaking on the general theme of compulsory membership of student organisations and how it should be responded to.  Senator Carrick  went on to say: 
The next question comes when moneys are used for the support of controversial activity such as the PLO, or the establishment and maintenance of permissive abortion clinics, to take two examples. The institutions of course have the capacity to delimit the use of their student funds and some do so. Equally, it is highly desirable to encourage student decision-making to prevent a minority viewpoint being asserted. 
Once again, one could hardly find a more succinct and admirable statement of the democratic principle. That, might I suggest, is part of the answer to those who approach the issue of membership of student organisations in this way. 
Let me now turn to the question of the allocation of fees. It is the subject matter which is in clause 16 of the Australian National University Amendment Bill and again in the equivalent provision of the Canberra College of Advanced 
Education Amendment Bill. There are a number of objections that can be mounted to this clause including the phrase 'direct benefit to the University' which can be picked up at the Committee stage. The main objection I want to deal with and discuss at this stage is that part of clause 1 6 which is so clearly directed at the inhibition or the prohibition of payments to national student organisations. It is a clause which is obviously unashamedly directed in the propaganda- if not of the Minister, certainly of some of his supporters, including some sitting in the galleries of this chamber- at the Australian Union of Students. 
Again there are two aspects of this that the Opposition finds bad. The first one is that it is wrong in principle, whatever the situation may be in practice, for this kind of aspect of university affairs of how university organisation money is spent, to be the subject of legislative interference by the national Parliament. The second point I want to make- this is going beyond what other speakers have dealt with tonight- whatever the situation might have been a couple of years ago and whatever views one might have had then about goings on within Australian Union of Students, is that any such clause is now quite unjustified by the recent and current state of affairs within the Australian Union of Students. On the question of principle I do not think I need to labour the point excessively because this has been done effectively by  Senator Wriedt.  I simply state that it has been the subject of strenuous and substantial objections by the University Council and its spokesmen, not least of course  Senator Rae  here tonight. There has been strenuous objection to the interference with the University's own discretionary control of these particular matters, interference with the University's own dedicated attempts to resolve the difficulties that have presented themselves in this particular respect. 
I refer to statements in University Council minutes. I will not stop to read them out. These statements occurred in July 1977, February 1979 and the statement I referred to earlier from ViceChancellor Low in the 1978 annual report. This statement was issued by the Vice-Chancellor on 25 October this year when he made it absolutely clear- he was speaking undoubtedly on the University's behalf- that he was unable to accept this interference with the discretionary powers and activities of the University Council in this particular respect.  His  language was moderate under the circumstances but absolutely pointed  and clear. The Vice-Chancellor said that he believed it would be more appropriate to leave the discretion hereto to the University's distinguished and broadly based governing body, the Council. 
Again I might add that this appears to be a principle which  Senator Carrick  rather unequivocably supports. Referring to his Western Australian letter of 19 March 1976, he said as follows: 
Student bodies are an integral part of campus life at Australian Universities and provide a wide range of services for their members including food services, welfare services, social and cultural activities, spotting facilities and student representation. These bodies are established either by the legislation establishing the University or by statute or resolution of the University governing body. Accordingly any questions concerning their operations or activities are matters for the Universities themselves to resolve. 
Has the honourable senator resiled from that particular position? Maybe he has been conducting an unhappy one-man campaign against the desires of his even more extravagant colleagues on this particular subject. If so, it regrettably appears that the honourable senator has been most unsuccessful, but certainly he made an excellent fist of stating the relevant principles, if I might say so, in that particular letter. The question necessarily presents itself in this debate as to the current status and activities of the AUS since I do not think anyone on the other side of the chamber would even begin to try to conceal the fact that the primary objective of this part of the legislation relating to fee payments to national student organisations deals with the recent controversies surrounding AUS. Let me say right at the outset that there is no doubt that - 
If the honourable senator listens he might just conceivably learn something on a matter on which he has been as rampantly prejudicial in his statements as anyone else in this chamber. Let me say that AUS undoubtedly went through a phase following its very rapid expansion with a large number of campuses joining it when it became a general tertiary institution body rather than one confined to the universities. Undoubtedly it went through a phase of fairly extravagant commitment to causes which had only minority support on campuses around Australia. These commitments were unpalatable, not only to the right wing, whose views have been so well articulated in this respect rather unusually by  Senator Puplick  here tonight, but also they were unquestionably offensive to a large body of mainstream Australian Labor Party supporters among the student body. There is no doubt about that. 
In response to the way in which that extravagant behaviour in a number of respects was going on the democratic process took its natural course. As  Senator Tate  said, there were a number of sucessions, rather conspicuous sucessions, from AUS on various campuses. I will indicate the more prominent of them in 1979: University of Queensland; James Cook University of Townsville; Sydney University; Macquarie University; University of New South Wales; Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology; the South Australian Institute of Technology; and the University of Tasmania. I have saved  Senator Teague  the trouble of filling us in. In turn, let it be understood- because this is crucial to the relevance and the propriety of the Government's proceeding with this legislation at that time- that that development had its effect within the body of AUS itself. It had its effect on the national organisation and the reality is that AUS is an organisation which has now put its house in order. 
At the Special Council meetings of the Australian Union of Students on 22-24 June and 14-15 July this year it was decided to make a number of changes to the structure of AUS in response to criticism made very largely by Liberal students on the various campuses and also by the social Centre Unity group of Labor Party student leaders and their supporters. These changes, which are currently in the process of ratification, include the following and are all very relevant indeed to this particular debate. First of all is the election of the AUS national executive by proportional representation which will have the effect of guaranteeing all political groups with at least 10 per cent support of the AUS annual council a place on the executive of the organisation. Previously the executive had largely been elected on a State by State basis allowing groups with a narrow majority in certain States to achieve an overwhelming majority on the executive. That problem has been overcome. 
Secondly, there is a new system of votes at the AUS councils whereby the voting strength of campus delegations is proportional to student numbers except that the half dozen smaller campuses have been upgraded to two votes instead of the nil or one vote they would have had under a perfectly proportional system. Thirdly, the direct election of the AUS regional organisers in each State is through a ballot of each member campus. Previously the regional organisers had been elected by delegates at AUS regional conferences under a collegiate system and that, in turn, resulted in the appointment of some people which might have been thought, perhaps properly in some quarters, as inappropriate. They are the three major structural changes. In addition, there was a fourth one involving the streamlining of the AUS annual council so that no policy motions could be passed unless the AUS was allocating resources in that area of policy. That will operate and will have the effect of preventing AUS operating in the future as a mini all purpose world Parliament with policy on each and every conceivable international and national issue. It will help ensure that the national union concentrates its energies and attention on what it obviously ought to be concentrating on, and that is education. I know that people are looking at the clock but this is the kind of legislation which is damaging and destructive to people's reputations and individual students' rights- 
Debate interrupted. 
-There is just one additional matter which I think needs to be drawn to the Senate's attention. It was not canvassed by any honourable senator during the second reading debate. I certainly do not propose to cover any of the ground previously trodden. I refer to clause 16 (4) (a), which states that the Council shall not allow moneys to be paid:  unless the Council is of the opinion that provision of those amenities or services, ... to students, . . . by or on behalf of the organization . . . will directly benefit the University; 
There is a problem with the expression 'directly benefit the University'. It is not a problem in the sense that I or the Opposition do not believe that in some sense the payments or the provision of the facilities in question ought not to be properly capable of construction as benefiting the University and its members. That is clearly an appropriate general limitation. The worry is, however, that that particular phrase is capable of a very narrow construction indeed. Giving it legislative form in this fashion means that there is something to worry about. This is not an entirely unfamiliar expression in university statutes and internal rules. I understand that it is in fact an expression which occurs in the Australian National University subordinate legislation at the moment. But I understand that in the past provisions of this kind have generally been construed as properly being left in the hands of the student organisation concerned. 
-I am sorry. Could the honourable senator expand on that? 
Meaning this University in this particular case? 
-The difficulty about it is that I see the prospect of a conflict conceivably emerging between a student organisation in what it wants to do so far as purely internal University matters are concerned and what the University Council may regard as activity which is not in the best interests or beneficial to the University as a whole. The reality is that on many issues student organisations historically- and no doubt this will continue to be the case in the future- have tended to act in ways that may be aggressive to the university administration or the academic part of it. They have pursued issues which have been genuinely perceived to be in the interests of the students but which have been vigorously resisted by the administration. As a  former student politician. I can think of many examples from my own days in the mid- 1 960s, but more recent examples have involved such activities as campaigns for examination reform, campaigns on matters related to entrance requirements, exercises in support in one way or another of child care facilities and things of that kind. In many of these instances there is a potential for very real conflict between what the student organisation is on about and what the university council, were it so minded, could conceivably regard as activity which is not beneficial to the university's interests, perhaps not beneficial to the academic standards of the university and not beneficial to the university's capacity to conduct its affairs in a financially orderly way. 
In the past the interpretation of these sorts of phrases has been very much a joint good faith arrangement between the university council and the student bodies in question. One hopes that this will continue to be the case in the future. I know that there is concern within the ANU campus about this particular phrase. Certainly, it is possible to see a sound objective basis for that concern, given the potentially quite conservative character of the University Council. If that is not so at the ANU at the moment in terms of the stance it has taken in the past, it may well prove to be a rather more conservative institution in the future should this Government remain in office, given, as  Senator Tate  pointed out in the course of his speech, the extraordinary opportunities that the Government has to influence the composition of that Council.Given those considerations and given the possibility of that expression being construed in, unhappily, a very narrow way, the Opposition puts that forward as yet another reason why this clause should be opposed. 
A number of endeavours have been made- not least again by  Senator Puplick-  to paint a picture of the Australian Union of Students as not only a kind of moribund organisation but a ratbag organisation with no proper role in the business of lobbying for improvements in educational standards. I point out to  Senator Puplick  and to anyone else on the Government side who is open-minded enough to appreciate a bit of hard data rather than just prejudicial - 

 - Senator Lajovic has a conspicuous reputation for idiot interjections based on a total lack of any kind of knowledge. Perhaps the honourable senator would listen while I indicate to him and to the Senate - 
The honourable senator manifestly has not learned anything. Maybe he can start now at this very late stage. Among the submissions on the subject of education that have been made by AUS to various authorities this year are pre-Budget submissions on student financing, an 80-page document on the Tertiary 
Education Assistance Scheme and other fee matters, submissions on the future of the Sturt College of Advanced Education in South Australia- I point that out for the benefit of  Senator Teague-  submissions on the effect of the proposed tuition fee for overseas students and submissions to the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts on the effectiveness of schools with particular reference to numeracy and literacy. Following that, AUS representatives appeared before the Senate Committee, as the honourable senator may recall, on 22 October. Maybe he can tell the Senate whether they were putting on a nauseous, ratbag performance or whether they were contributing intelligently to a discussion of a serious issue. I will be interested to hear the honourable senator's contribution. 
Sometimes the calibre of the honourable senator's interjections makes me wince. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 20 September 1979: 
What grants by the Department of Education have there been for projects in the Electoral Divisions of Holt and Flinders, and for what purposes, in each financial year from 1975-76 to 1978-79. 
What projects are anticipated to be funded in 1979-80. 
-With respect to the Attorney, I think it must be said that there has been a great deal of expedition on the part of the Opposition and everyone else in getting through a very heavy program today. We have had some extended discussion of this complicated matter concerning clause 9 ( 1) (c) and (d). We knew it was complicated when we last adjourned debate on this Bill. I do not think that it helps the expedition of these matters to suggest that unnecessary waffling has been going on on this particular clause tonight. The Opposition stands quite cheerfully ready to battle on on this Bill but we would just like to know where we are going. If the Attorney wants to get the Bill through tonight, could he please indicate how late he is going to make us sit to get it through and we will see what we can do to help. 
-These amendments are not so much consequential upon as being to the same effect as earlier amendments. Rather than leaving it to regulations to prescribe what is a relevant interest we would prefer that to be identified on the face of the Act even though so identifying it is to broaden considerably the scope of the interest that would be so caught. We regard it as quite appropriate that a person with any kind of interest of the kind set out which could conceivably bring him into a conflict of interest situation or involve him in something which could be perceived by the community at large to involve a lack of probity should be precluded by legislation from possessing such interest or dealing in them. To that extent the proposed amendments are on all fours with the earlier amendments. 
-Perhaps the answer might be that it would be a darned sight more difficult to get rid of under those circumstances. In any event I am interested that the answer of the Attorney-General does not rely on the question of administrative difficulty, as was the reliance in the other place. That at least clarifies something that was puzzling the Opposition. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 44 agreed to. 
Proposed new clauses 44a and 44b. 
-Might I indicate that the Opposition does not propose to proceed with amendment No. 12 to clause 37. 
Also, the Opposition is indebted to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  for his courtesy in replying at the time when he replied to  Senator Rae,  to the reasons given for its last amendment. 
Clauses 37 to 43- by leave- taken together. 
It was my wish to move amendment No. 1 1 at the same time as I moved amendment No. 10, because they are associated. I seek leave accordingly. 
Leave granted. 
Accordingly, I move amendment No. 1 1: 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
-by leave- On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
-There are some remaining matters in clause 48 to be considered as the Opposition continues its futile efforts to make this Bill a counsel of perfection. I move: 
It is usually six years. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to . 
Clause 49 (Notification of interests). 
-by leave- I move: 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of the Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
-The amendment is one that the Opposition wanted to move in its own right, so we too are very happy about it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
-Whilst the Opposition does not formally oppose any of these Bills, it responds to them with varying degrees of enthusiasm. The simplest and shortest of the trio is the Evidence Amendment Bill, which contains no really substantial changes to the law. It contains an amendment of a small and consequential kind arising out of the High Court of Australia Bill and a change there made to the title of a key judicial officer. More importantly, it also contains a clarification of Parliament's power to disallow all kinds of rules of court made by the judiciary. This represents a response to a recommendation of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I both acknowledge the promptness of the response to that recommendation from the Attorney-General (Seantor Durack) and thank him for clarifying the matter in giving the recommendation legislative form in the way he has in this Bill. 
The second Bill is the Judiciary Amendment Bill (No. 2), which is part of a general reorganisation of the legislation relating to the High Court aimed essentially at cleaning up the statute book, primarily by disposing of a series of High Court Procedure Acts which have been promulgated over the years. Again, to that extent this is a welcome change. The main substantive change in this particular Bill is the removal of the power of a casting vote from the Chief Justice where there is an equality of judges, an evenly divided court, in appeals from the Federal Court, from Territory Supreme Courts, or from the Family Court. Hitherto, in those situations where there has been an equal division of judges, the Chief Justice has had a casting vote, unlike the situation which has obtained in the State Supreme Courts, where appeals coming from those jurisdictions and resulting in an even division of opinion have resulted in the majority decision at the lower level- the State level- prevailing. It has now been decided- the Opposition welcomes this- to extend that State Supreme Court status, as it were, to the Federal courts to ensure that where there is that even division of opinion the original decision of the lower Federal Court prevails. 
This would appear to be a response both to the creation and to the status of the new courts in the Federal system. 
It would also appear, certainly to the Opposition, to be very appropriate to be reducing the personal power of the Chief Justice in this respect. As we had occasion to say a number of times in 1975, the Chief Justice is, after all, but one judge among seven.  His  particular prejudices or the prejudices of any chief justice of the day should not be given any unnecessary weight such as was given under the system which has prevailed pending the passage of this Bill today. Of course, this represents an interesting dimuninon in the power of the present Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, and his successors, -to which they will be obliged to accommodate themselves. But I suspect that  Sir Garfield  at least will bear that dimunition of power in this respect with some fortitude, given the aggrandisement of power which has been accomplished in recent years and is now formalised in the further provisions of the High Court of Australia Bill, to which I will turn in a moment, relating to the financial administration on an independent basis of the affairs of that Court. 
I wish to mention in passing one other small matter in relation to the Judiciary Amendment Bill. Whilst this Bill is primarily concerned, as I indicated, with repealing previous legislation in this area scattered about the statute book and with consolidating procedural matters in the Judicary Act- a wholly worthwhile enterpriseone of the procedural matters thus consolidated relates to the conduct of jury trials by the High Court. I refer to clause 13 of the Judiciary Amendment Bill and in turn to new section 77D (2) of the Judiciary Act. This provision amounts simply to a direction that certain jury rules should apply in the trial of indictable offences. That raises the issue, which I want to mention briefly in the Senate, of the meaning and application of section 80 of the Constitution which is the provision in the Constitution which purports, on the face of it, to guarantee jury trial in Federal criminal matters. But the text of section 80 only states: 
The trial or indictment of any offence against any law of the Commonwealth shall be by jury . . . 
As is reasonably well known, the High Court has construed that part of section 80 as meaning only that the right to jury trial applies where an offence is described in Commonwealth legislation as, in fact, indictable. But in normal legal language, indictable offences are those where there is a two-stage proceeding involving a committal initially followed, in effect, by a jury trial. 
This phenomenon has led generations of law students to puzzle why the Constitution should go to the trouble of stating that there shall be trial by jury in those cases where it is provided that there shall be trial by jury. In other words, that is a quite empty proposition. 
I am not suggesting for a moment that we should use the occasion of the passage of these Bills to resolve this long-standing situation; but I hope that one day either the Constitution can be changed to give genuine meat and content to section 80 or, alternatively, that Commonwealth legislation, of which this is a central part, can be amended to provide for a genuine right of trial by jury in all serious cases. The relevant criterion perhaps might be imprisonment for six months, one year or more. Over the years a great deal of comment has been made about the desirability of some extra guarantees in that respect, but nothing has ever been done about it. Today, with legislation of this kind before us, is one of the numerous occasions on which Bills referring to the exercise of jury trial in Federal courts is allowed just to go through. It seems appropriate to make that point in passing. 
Let us turn finally to the High Court of Australia Bill 1979, which is the central Bill in this package of Bills and which certainly is the most substantial in its range and content. It contains three main elements, the first of which is a series of administrative provisions associated with the establishment of the seat of the High Court in Canberra. That is the material in Division 2 of Part II and in Part III of the Bill. Those matters essentially are uncontroversial. I take the occasion to note only that the Opposition certainly shares the view which has been espoused in many quarters that the High Court should continue to travel around the country fairly extensively, even when it is located in the new building in Canberra, especially when matters such as applications for leave to appeal are in issue. Whilst it may be quite appropriate for big constitutional cases to be conducted in the pomp and majesty of the new national building across the way, it seems to me, and to the Opposition, that in quite a number of other cases the convenience of litigants, especially their financial convenience, perhaps should be the primary consideration. 
The second element in the High Court Bill is the important and new provision it makes for the High Court to have separate administrative powers with respect to its financial affairs. That is the material in Part III of the Bill. The Bill will create a new statutory office of Clerk of the High 
Court with the function of assisting judges, I imagine especially the Chief Justice, in his and their performance of those administrative functions. The powers now vested specifically in the High Court, which presently are exercised by the Attorney-General 's Department on behalf not of the Court but of the Commonwealth generally, include the power of the Court to enter into contracts, its power to deal in various ways with property, its power to manage buildings and the staff of the Court and also its power, which has raised some rather quizzical eyebrows in various quarters but 1 suppose one can assume that it will be administered sensibly to accept gifts, devices and bequests directed to the courts- one hopes with the best of motives- from various sources. The financial arrangements set out in more detail in Part V of the Bill provide for the Parliament to appropriate moneys on the basis of estimates approved by the Minister- who for this purpose, one assumes, is the Attorney-General- with specific ministerial approval being required for expenditure or contracts entered into by the Court involving sums of $ 100,000 or more. 
The Opposition makes several critical points about those provisions. The first such point is that the so-called justification in principle for that change of arrangements does not appear to be especially persuasive. The Attorney-General put in his second reading speech, and it has been put in debate in the other place, that the overwhelming justification and legitimisation for the new arrangement is the traditional notion of the independence of the judiciary and, accordingly, the propriety of the judiciary having independent control over finance- it being one of the three major arms of government. Associated with that, of course, have been the particular claims of the High Court to enjoy this right of control over its own affairs as being the pinnacle of the Federal judicial system, it being argued to be appropriate to accomplish the transfer in this respect, again, at the time of the High Court's shift to Canberra. But the notion that this kind of arrangement is demanded by the separation of powers does not carry much conviction. The point has not been taken for some 79 years of which I am aware. The claim that is being made is a very recent argument. It has been floated from time to time by individual judges, but it is not something which can be seen as having a long ground swell of support behind it. It is not a luxury that is to be enjoyed- not for some time anyway, if indeed there are any proposals in the pipeline- as I understand it, by the other Federal ^'courts in the system; yet there would appear to be no difference in principle between their position and that of the High Court. 
Further, the credibility of the separation of powers doctrine as a rationale for this arrangement is not really heightened by the failure of this Government, like its predecessors of all parties, to make similar arrangements for the Parliament- the third arm in the separated powers trio. It has long been the subject of complaint- it is currently the subject of quite vociferous complaint by the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives and I know that you,  Mr President,  have joined with him in making noise about this matter- that the Parliament does not enjoy any degree of budgetary independence from the Government and that this is quite in conflict with Parliament's standing as an equal arm of government along with the Executive and the judiciary. So, I suggest that the Government's credibility in advancing separation of powers arguments as a justification for this new arrangement so far as the High Court is concerned would be enhanced by extending the same honour and courtesy to the Parliament. 
Another point to make is that, notwithstanding these new arrangements, the Court is still capable of being cut off without a penny by the Parliament and the Executive. There is absolutely nothing in this legislation which can be construed as guaranteeing any ultimate financial independence for the Court. It will just have to operate on a hand to mouth, year to year, appropriation to appropriation basis like everyone else. It is clear, then, that this is really just a symbolic gesture to satisfy the Court's and, especially  Sir Garfield  Barwick 's, desire and passion for the trappings and appearance of power as well as, of course, the reality. I am not suggesting for a moment that there is any lesser disposition to settle for trappings than there is for the reality. 
The second point I want to make in this general discussion of the weaknesses of the arguments that have been advanced in favour of separate administration for the High Court is that the track record of the High Court in recent years in the administration of its own affairs has not really been such as to encourage enormous confidence in its financial or other administrative responsibility. I say that, first of all, in the context of the erection of the temple across the road in respect of which it is well known- this has been the subject of considerable comment inside and outside this Parliament- that  Sir Garfield  Barwick has played a quite considerable role. Indeed, by reference to criteria such as passion for ostentation, obsession with detail, incapacity to make up one's mind and indifference to cost, it could indeed be argued that  Sir Garfield  has been indistinguishable from a Toorak matron in his approach to the erection of this building. 
With regard to the furnishing of the temple across the road, again there has been very considerable room for concern about the way in which costs have escalated, largely at the instance, it appears, of requests made and generated from within the existing High Court organisation. Some quite interesting information has emerged in this respect in the course of Estimates committee hearings. I refer in particular to the material derived by  Senator Mcintosh  in the course of the recent round of hearings of Estimates Committee E in relation to the list of proposed furniture for the High Court. Whilst one does not wish to be too carping about this, certainly anyone who has had any joinery put together or purchased any furniture recently will know that the costs are really quite extraordinary. One notices things such as the justices' book trollies- four at $1,740 each- on the purchasing list when lesser mortals within the library and among practitioners have to settle for book trollies at a mere $790 each. There seems to be something of a passion with book trollies in this list. There are to be over 40 of them, in my count, which rather suggests, given the very limited working space in the new building as compared with the grand public space, that most people will spend a good deal of time stepping around book trollies. 
The egalitarian spirit equally does not appear to have been extended to the provision of coffee tables- to make just one more point about the apparent financial extavagance. It is to be noted that the justices' coffee tables are to cost $1,370 each, whereas the lesser mortals who practise before the justices have to settle, in the rooms provided for them, for coffee tables at a mere $ 1 60 each. These points raise questions with which it is perfectly appropriate for Estimates committees and this Parliament to be concerned. 
One of the general problems about these new arrangements is the extent to which- I will come to this in a moment- there will be genuine accountability in the way that money is spent by the Court. 
A further matter of the Court's administration that perhaps needs to be mentioned as giving some ground for concern is the allocation of staff and the priorities that have been evident in the appointment of staff. There is reason to believe- as I have had occasion to say in earlier debates on this subject- that the proposed staff structure for the new High Court is somewhat erratic by most rational standards, with the proportion of uniformed attendants to researchers and associates being such as might be appropriate in a Roman emperor's bath house but not all that obviously so in the context of a working national institution such as the High Court. The problem is, of course, that to a very large extent, even if the High Court continues to be administered from outside, from the Attorney-General's Department, one is very largely in the hands of the judges and the recommendations that they make. It may not mean that any great changes of significance will result by virtue of vesting the administration in the Court itself, but I simply repeat the point that the track record of the Court in these matters and perhaps even more importantly in the matter of its administration of its cases- the timing of them, the setting down of cases and the production of statistics concerning the work and output of the Court- has left something to be desired. 
The remaining point that I make about financial administration is  the  genuine concern that the Opposition has about the financial accountability of the Court and those administering it to this Parliament. I hope that this Legislation- I would appreciate the Attorney-General's confirmation of this- is to be read as being satisfied not simply by a one-line appropriation. One notes that there is a requirement for ministerial approval of the estimates which can, I take it, be regarded as an implicit direction to the Minister to require something better than a one-line appropriation being put before him and before the Parliament. But I am not sure whether detailed estimates will in fact appear in the legislation. I would appreciate the Attorney-General's confirmation that they will. I hope further that it can be assumed by the Opposition- again I would appreciate the views of the Attorney on this-that the  Clerk  to be appointed to head the High Court administration, in fact, will appear before Senate Estimates committees when it comes to the determination and analysis of the High Court's budget. That in itself, however, does not take us very far because the question arises as to what happens if Parliament is not satisfied with those estimates after the event- through the Public Accounts Committee or some other vehicle of that kind- with the way in which expenditure has actually been incurred. 
It would appear that this is a recipe for ministerial buck passing of a fairly high order. We know how easy it is for ministerial buck passing to take place even when the departments of the Ministers in question are in issue. How much easier is it going to be when the doctrine of the separation of powers can be called in issue and the Minister can claim to have no responsibility at all to the Parliament for the way in which this money is spent? On this accountability question there are a number of aspects involving, firstly, simply the physical appearance of the  Clerk  before the Senate Estimates committee, but, more particularly, the larger question of where the buck passing will finally stop when some cause for concern does appear. 
The final matter dealt with in this legislation, and the final matter on which the Opposition comments, is the very important question of the appointment of High Court judges and the new clause in the legislation which now appears as clause 6 of the High Court of Australia Bill in the following terms: 
Where there is a vacancy in an office of Justice, the Attorney-General shall, before an appointment is made to the vacant office, consult with the Attorneys-General of the States in relation to the appointment. 
This represents a major concession to what the States have been trying to achieve ever since Federation, or at least since about 1920, when in the engineers case for the first time the Court started behaving as a truly national institution, concerned to interpret and to apply the Constitution, where there was ambiguity in its terms, in such a way that national interests and concerns took precedence over parochial ones, and in such a way that there would be a possibility for genuine national-sized solutions to national-sized problems. The Opposition believes that it is absolutely crucial; as the Minister said in his second reading speech, that 'the Court continues to be truly national in character'. However, we believe that in order to achieve this the critical consideration is not a question of geographical balance sustained over time, or at any given point of time, in the composition of the Court, but rather the certainty that the best men and women in the nation are appointed to the Court,, the best both in terms of their scholarly ability and technical expertise across the range of law with which they have to deal- especially constitutional law- and in terms of the kind of vision and breadth of understanding and approach that they bring to their job. 
It is fair enough to acknowledge that, in the course of pursuing presumably those goals in the past, Commonwealth governments have demonstrated a somewhat cavalier indifference to the claims of judicial appointees from the smaller States. Indeed, it was only with the appointment of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Wilson very recently that Western Australia had its first appointment to the Bench, and it remains true that neither South Australia nor Tasmania has ever had members on the High Court. The Opposition is perfectly ready to accept that over the years there may have been some very suitable candidates from those States who, for one reason or another, were overlooked. It accepts that, for those reasons, perhaps some more formal consultative arrangements to supplement the eastern States grapevine might be desirable. It has said so in the other place and, indeed, at the Constitutional Convention in Perth. But the Opposition is concerned that that should go so far as to be now incorporated in the legislation in formal, statutory terms. We certainly would resist any move that this Government or some future government might be tempted to make, by virtue of its now being incorporated in statutory form, to provide that in the future there will be some kind of rotating arrangement for membership of the High Court- a kind of judicial Buggins ' turn syndrome. We would resist that very vigorously. 
Moreover, we would resist especially any notion that the language now to go on the statute book is to be taken as implying that judges should be appointed only on the basis of some collective or majority view having emerged, on there being in effect some kind of vote in which the Commonwealth has but one voice among others. The Opposition insists that the national importance and character of the High Court demands that the perspective which only the Commonwealth can give, irrespective of which party is in. government, should be dominant, the one that actually applies in the determination of High Court appointments. We do not want to see a situation in which exciting or potentiallycontroversial appointments to the High Court will be submerged by the demands of the lowest common political denominator. 
-Mr Temporary  Chairman,  I seek leave to move together the first nine amendments on the sheet circulated by the Opposition, all of which relate to this clause. 
I am sorry; there certainly was an intention to have them circulated some considerable time ago. 
They are identical to the amendments moved in another place, so there will be no surprises. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
1) Page 11, clause 19, sub-clause (2), paragraph (a), line 3 ,  after ' he ', insert ' , his spouse or a dependent child '. 
Before proceeding to speak about those amendments, right at the outset I ask the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  what his Government's attitude is to the moving of any amendments to the National Companies and Securities Commission Bill. I ask him to comment in that sense not on the merits of each amendment, but rather on what the status of any amendment would be if it were accepted by the Government. Is it the fact that the moving of any amendments to this legislation is something of a charade, given that presumably the acceptance of the Ministerial Council would be required before any such amendments could be finally accepted by the Government? 
Has the Government in fact taken to the Ministerial Council any of the amendments to this Bill which, for some time now the Government has been aware the Opposition proposes to move? These are points which the AttorneyGeneral will recall were made by me in the second reading debate when I spoke of the peculiar character of this legislation, demanding, as it does, not only the Commonwealth Government's approval but also the approval of the States. I think it would help if the AttorneyGeneral's attitude, not only towards this Bill but also towards all the others in the series of Bills which is about to confront us in the next session of Parliament, were put on the table and made clear. 
The amendments I have moved to clause 19 are concerned with the matter of the pecuniary interests of members or staff of the proposed National Companies and Securities Commission and the requirement, of which the Opposition wholeheartedly approves, that such person in fact sign a register of such interests. The Rae report is very strong indeed on the matter of the pecuniary interests of people associated with the administration of the proposed Commission. In fact, at a later stage, the Opposition will move amendments to later clauses of this Bill which are rather more stringent than what we are looking at at the moment. 
We see the provision relating to the register as being defective in several respects. Those are the matters to which the amendments I have moved are, in their various ways, directed. Firstly, the provision requires the person making the disclosure to reveal only his or her interest. One of the easiest ways of avoiding financial disclosure is simply to transfer assets within a family. In that sense, our amendments pick up the interests not only of persons themselves but also of their spouses and dependent children. 
The second matter is that we do not believe that the range of financial interests referred to in clause 19 is anywhere near wide enough. Clause 19 as it stands refers only to directorships in what is termed 'relevant interest in securities'. A relevant interest will have to be determined not on the face of this legislation but in accordance with criteria that are to be specified by regulations. So at the moment there is a lack of clarity on the face of the Bill. The Opposition's view is that the concept of financial interest should be extended beyond that of the core notion of directorships, which is what is in issue here, to include any interests in securities, benefits or income paid to a person or his or her spouse or dependants. Our amendments Nos 2 and 3 are directed to that end. Amendment No. 4 makes it clear that what is an interest that has to be disclosed for this purpose is something denned on the face of the legislation and is not something to be settled by regulation. 
The final defect which we see in clause 1 9 and to which these amendments are directed is this: Essentially, the clause is not tough enough in the kinds of sanctions it imposes for those who either fail to disclose relevant interests or in fact make inaccurate declarations of such interests. This clause is to be compared with clause 49, which is much more stringent in this respect, and we suggest accordingly that there be some amendments. Amendments Nos 6, 7 and 8 have the combined effect of making it an offence to fail to disclose an interest or a change of interest on becoming a staff member or a member of the Commission and providing for a penalty of $5,000 or imprisonment for one year, or both, under those circumstances. Finally, the last amendment in the series, amendment No. 9, provides for an offence punishable by a fine of up to $10,000 or imprisonment for two years, or both, for providing for the register information which is knowingly false or misleading. 
-The Opposition is undeterred by the indication in prospect of the Attorney-General that no more generosity is about to be demonstrated by the Government towards the Opposition's endeavours than was the case in the other place. On the other hand, the Opposition derives some small encouragement from the fact that the AttorneyGeneral did seem to indicate that if at any stage in the forthcoming debates on other Bills in this series something does strike the Government as being, extraordinarily enough, worthy of the attention of the Ministerial Council, it will take the appropriate steps to check out the amendment before finally passing the Bill through this Parliament. So out of such straws is parliamentary sovereignty made these days. Nonetheless, the Opposition will proceed on that basis. We believe that it is important that we state our position on these amendments, as we did in the other place. We regard these amendments as important and we hope that the Australian people regard them as important. Perhaps by exposing them again tonight there will be some slight momentum contributing towards their ultimate acceptance. The amendment to clause 36 that I am about to move on behalf of the Opposition has been circulated as No. 10 on the list. I move: 
10) Page 17, clause 36, sub-clause (2) lines 5 and 6, leave out all words after 'Commission ', insert 'shall direct that the hearing take place in public unless the Commission is satisfied that the holding of the hearing in public would, or would be reasonably likely to: 
prejudice the investigation of a breach or possible breach of the law or the enforcement or proper administration of the law in a particular instance; 
prejudice the fair trial of a person or the impartial adjudication of a particular case; 
disclose, or enable a person to ascertain, the identity of a confidential source of information in relation to the enforcement or administration of the law; 
disclose methods or procedures for preventing, detecting, investigating, or dealing with matters arising out of, breaches or evasions of the law, the disclosure of which would, or would be reasonably likely to, prejudice the effectiveness of those methods or procedures; 
endanger the lives or physical safety of persons engaged in or in connexion with law enforcement; or 
unreasonably disclose information relating to the per sonal affairs of any person, in any of which cases the Commissioner may direct that the hearing take place in private '. 
The effect of the Bill, as it stands at the moment, is that hearings being conducted by the Commission can be held either in public or in private. The Opposition is not happy with the generality of that expression. It gives the Commission an unrestricted discretion to hold its hearings in private. In our view the proper policy to adopt here is that hearings should be held in public unless there is some compelling reason to the contrary. The amendment proposed would provide that unless the kind of principles which the Government has already accepted in its Freedom of Information Bill apply- that is, that a hearing in public would prejudice the investigation of the law or the fair trial of the person and the several other matters then set out- the hearing should be held in public and not in private. The detailed language, which I do not stop to recite, in the amendment indicates clearly the Opposition's view as to the precise circumstances in which it is appropriate that these hearings be held in private and, equally, indicates that the priority and the emphasis should always be on public hearings and that it ought not to be completely a matter for the Commission 's discretion. 
-The Opposition proposes the addition of a new clause 43A, which is amendment No. 1 3 on this sheet. I move: 
To assist the Ministerial Council in discharging its functions under ... the previous sub-clause, there should be a Companies and Securities Law Review Committee- 
to carry out research into and advise on law reform in relation to the legislation and regulations referred to in that paragraph: 
the number of the members of which is to be determined from time to time by the Ministerial Council: 
the members of which are to be appointed and may be removed by the Ministerial Council and will be engaged on terms and conditions determined by the Ministerial Council. 
It is obviously proposed that the Companies and Securities Law Review Committee be a significant and important advisory body. We in the Opposition believe that it will be a significant body and that it ought to be given statutory form. The main reason advanced by the Minister in the other place- we would be interested to see whether the present Minister, if he is in the mood to answer, can in fact be a little more enlightening than was the Minister in the other place- is that this would cause unnecessary administrative difficulties, particularly since this was only an advisory body. We are not at all clear what those difficulties are. We would understand, if not entirely applaud the Government's attitude, if it simply did not want to create a proliferation of statutory bodies perhaps because of some intimidation from  Senator Rae,  who seems to regard it as a matter of moral evil for a statutory body to be created these days unless there is some overwhelming justification for it, such that all mortal men, natural or otherwise, would unequivocally agree. The Opposition is interested to know precisely why the Government has set its heels against this particular proposal which seems a not especially controversial one. 
-by leave -I move: 
Although a number of other options might be canvassed I believe the successful implementation of whatever course may be selected would require the co-operation of the professional accounting bodies as the repositories of the very considerable expertise which they have developed in the research and formulation of exposure drafts. 
This is the course which is supported by the New South Wales Attorney-General. As you will be aware he has called for the establishment of an Accounting Standards Review Board comprised of five persons experienced in industry, commerce, economics, law or public administration. As he saw the Board it would not be concerned with the promotion or development of proposed standards; its functions would be confined to reviewing and either endorsing or rejecting standards proposed, although not necessarily exclusively so, by the accounting profession. 
Although the Attorney-General has not said publicly very much more than that about his proposal ... it might provide that the Board would have power: to invite or receive draft standards from the accounting bodies to negotiate with those bodies as the prorities to be followed in the development of specific standards and as to the timetable to be followed (subject to the provision for relief) to require the general adoption of a standard endorsed by the Board to reject a proposed standard and refer it to the originating body for modification. 
That is the kind of model which was promoted in New South Wales by the then Commissioner for Corporate Affairs. It may well provide one very appropriate model, properly developed, for the kind of standards review committee that we are referring to and which we propose to give statutory identity in this legislation. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  in the other place said in his reply to the honourable member for Hawker that the Ministerial Council had given and indeed was giving consideration to this proposal. It is my understanding that there has been at least one and maybe even two meetings of the Ministerial Council since these amendments were debated in the House of Representatives. In those circumstances the Opposition would welcome at the least some indication from the Attorney-General as to what progress has been made in this matter even if, as regrettably seems likely, the Government is not prepared to accept this amendment here and now. 
by leave -I move: 
Interests of members of the person's immediate family should similarly be disclosed. In the event that arrangements satisfactory to the Minister or commissioners (as the case may be) cannot be arrived at, the offer of appointment should be withdrawn, or where the interests accrue or the person becomes aware of them after appointment, the appointment should be subject to termination. 
This should not prevent holding assets in the form of Government securities or land, or other property not in the form of company securities or 'interests '. 
Trading in shares or other securities by any commissioner, officer or employee of the commission or trading on behalf of such a person should be forbidden. 
Compare that with the language of the present Bill, which is much milder. Under the terms of clause 1 9, all that commissioners really need to do is register their pecuniary interests. Also under clause 1 9, staff members need only declare on an ad hoc basis pecuniary interests or former employment relationships that are relevant to any particular matter. Under clause 48, commissioners and staff can in fact deal in securities so long as they do not 'deal in, or cause or procure any other person to deal in' securities about which they have 'information that is not generally available but, if it were, would be likely materially to affect the price of any securities '. 
I take the view that the Rae Committee was right and that there should be an outright ban on members and staff of the Commission dealing in securities once they have been appointed. There are equally good arguments that members and staff of the Commission should not even hold any shares for the duration of their appointment. It may be that business appointees would need to place their holdings in a blind trust for the period of appointment, or some arrangement such as that. Certainly, to my knowledge, this has been the practice of  members of  the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States of America, where it has been felt that they should be completely above suspicion of possible personal gain arising out of that position and the information to which that position gives them access. In the event, after considering the ramifications and the fairly severe restrictions on individuals that would be effected by an absolute blanket ban of this kind, the Opposition has moved an amendment of a somewhat softer kind, but nonetheless one which is considerably more stringent than the proposed clause 48. 
The particular proposal that the Opposition moves here is best understood I think by approaching clause 48 on the basis that it has three distinct elements which have to be made out if a prosecution is to stand up. The first is that a person who has been appointed to the Commission, or is a staff member of it or has some associated role, must have information relating to the securities in question and have dealt in those securities. The second element that has to be made out is that the information is not generally available. The third element is that if the information had been generally available it would be likely materially to affect the price. The view of the Opposition is that that sequence of requirements, in fact, makes the prosecution's task so difficult as to be almost incapable of being made out in any given case. 
In respect of the third element about the material effect on price, we believe that the prosecution would face almost insurmountable obstacles in trying to prove in advance that the situation existed. It would be to prove in the abstract as it were. If a person who is working for the Commission uses insider information to gain advantage for himself or herself, the Opposition takes the view that it does not really matter whether that information would be such as to affect materially the price. It may be desirable to be able to establish this in a particular case but the difficulty of establishing it tends to make this whole clause a non-threatening one in respect of the members and employees of the Commission. We think that it ought to be a clause which operates as a genuine disincentive to dealing in interests in this way. 
Similarly, the second element that I mentioned, namely, that the information be not generally available, also creates difficulties for a prosecution, perhaps intolerable burdens. It is a matter of approving, in effect, a negative- that the information is not generally available. That is always difficult to do to the satisfaction of any tribunal. We take the view that the basic principle should be that members of the Commission are persons committed to absolute probity in security dealings. They should never do anything that would raise the slightest suspicion about their behaviour. In terms of the actual drafting of this clause, we would say that it should not be the burden of the prosecution to prove that information which has been used in an insider trading context is generally available but rather that the burden should lie on the defence to establish that fact. So it is a matter - 
I accept,  Senator Puplick,  that an amendment involving a reverse onus in this way is rather an unusual kind of amendment for the Opposition to be moving. My personal preference, as I indicated at the outset, would be for a clause that got rid of all this business about allowing dealings or the possession of interests in certain circumstances except where other criteria could be made out. I would rather get rid of that altogether and prohibit absolutely the possession of any interests or the dealing in any interests. If the Government took the view that it did not like reverse onus clauses but would be prepared to accept a more stringent approach such as was recommended in very precise terms by the Rae Committee, as I read out, I for one would be only too happy if that approach were adopted. But the amendment represents an endeavour to meet the 
Government halfway and, in fact, to say that an individual can continue to hold shares and interests and deal in those interests provided he is prepared to face the possible consequences of a proceeding in which an onus would be placed upon him that it would be very difficult to extricate himself from. That is a half-way house. To some people that might seem a more satisfactory gamble than giving up the possession of interests entirely or dealing in such interests. It is in that spirit that the Opposition puts forward the amendment in those terms. I acknowledge that this is a rather unusual situation for the Opposition but, as I have indicated, our preference is for something rather more stringent. 
-This is a very important Bill indeed, being the first of a proposed series of major enactments implementing a scheme of company law and securities industry regulation on a uniform national basis. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill outright, but it does have a number of quite serious objections and reservations to it which are perhaps best expressed in our amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time. I therefore move: 
At end of motion add ', but the Senate: 
expresses its concern at the Government's apparent abdication of its responsibility to make national laws for corporations and the securities industry pursuant to the Commonwealth's own constitutional powers, and in accordance with the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange in 1974 (the Rae Report); 
notes that the proposed legislative scheme places uniformity before reform, and creates both the danger and the likelihood that lowest common denominator standards will prevail; 
expresses its concern at the lack of effective accountability of the proposed Commission to either the Government or Parliament of the Commonwealth, or to any other single elected Government or Parliament; 
expresses its views that the Bill should be improved by redrafting it to provide for: 
an extension of the scope and enforceability of its financial interest provisions; 
a requirement that hearings of the Commission be normally held in public; 
the establishment of the proposed Companies and Securities Law Review Committee on a firm statutory basis; 
the establishment on a firm statutory basis of an Accounting Standards Review Committee; and 
the explicit prescription of the matters on which the Commission must annually report; 
while acknowledging that pursuant to the scheduled Agreement any such proposed amendment may need to be the subject of consultation with the Ministerial Council before final acceptance by the Government, nonetheless insists upon this Parliament's right to properly scrutinise and amend all legislation put before it by the Executive; and 
f ) calls upon the Government, in the event of the breakdown for any reason of the scheme embodied in the Bill, to immediately proceed to the introduction of Commonwealth legislation for the national regulation of corporations and the securities industry'. 
The Bill before us today, the National Companies and Securities Commission Bill, establishes the basic structural or machinery framework within which the regulation of the companies and securities industry will continue in the future. The scheme of which this is the basic machinery part is to be filled by a number of later Bills dealing specifically with takeovers, the securities industry, and the body of company law. The overall scheme is contained in a formal agreement reached between the Commonwealth and the States- the so-called Maroochydore agreement- on 22 December 1978. In essence, the proposal is that for all the elements of the scheme there is to be but one piece of basic legislation for the whole of Australia, passed by the Australian Parliament in respect of the Australian Capital Territory, which the States will pick up and adopt and validate for their own respective jurisdictions. There is to be a ministerial council comprising the relevant Australian and State Ministers who will decide upon the shape of the new legislation and subsequent amendments to it. The legislation will be administered primarily by the newly established National Companies and Securities Commission but also by the existing State corporate affairs offices exercising a kind of delegated function from the national body. 
As I have indicated, the scheme- both the basic machinery before us today and the subsequent body of" substantive law- is proposed to be implemented primarily by the Australian Government passing legislation jurisdictionally confined to the Australian Capital Territory and, constitutionally speaking, passed in pursuance only of the Commonwealth's territories power. As I indicated, it is proposed that the States will pick up this legislation in each instance by Bills of their own saying, for example in the case of Victoria, that the company law of Victoria shall be that prevailing in the Australian Capital Territory for the time being. The initial body of legislation- both the Bill before us today and the takeovers, securities industry and companies Bills which will follow- has to be agreed upon unanimously by the Ministerial Council in order to get off the ground. However, it is part of the general agreement that any subsequent amendments to that legislation be the product only of majority support. So far perhaps this is an impressive exercise in co-operative federalism. Certainly that is the way the Government has been anxious to dress it up. 
However, the Opposition takes the view that there are a number of quite serious problems with this scheme and with this Bill. The first of those problems is spelt out in our second reading amendment in the following terms:   . . the Senate: 
expresses its concern at the Government's apparent abdication of its responsibility to make national laws for corporations and the securities industry pursuant to the Commonwealth's own constitutional powers, and in accordance with the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange in 1974 - 
That is better known as the Rae report. That there is a need for the national regulation of the corporations and securities industries is now pretty well unequivocally and universally recognised. Certainly this was amply demonstrated by the Rae report which made a very strong argument for the operation of a single national system of company law, implemented and enacted by the Commonwealth Parliament, pursuant to its constitutional powers and also for a single national governmental regulatory body. The basis on which those recommendations were made is spelt out amply in the report. I have no doubt that  Senator Rae  who will follow me in the debate will give further information about the basis of those recommendations. I think that it is important to note them. The first major and substantial argument underlying this approach is as the Committee put it at the beginning of chapter 16: 
The evidence has repeatedly established that the securities market is a national market. Each of the stock exchanges functions as part of a national network. A large proportion of the business of the smaller exchanges is transacted in Melbourne and Sydney, and a substantial proportion of the total business in Australia is effected across State boundaries. For most listed  securities  there is, in practice, one market in which prices are set by national forces of supply and demand. 
Further down, it states: 
To a great extent, listed public companies, investment companies and others with which we have been concerned carry on business nationally. They use professional assistance from around the country. They raise capital nationally in the securities market, and (to facilitate the creation of a national trading market for their securities) are frequently listed on the stock exchanges in several States. 
The report continues: 
A major purpose of federation was to create a national economy. The growth of a securities market in which funds can be raised nationally to finance capital formation must be regarded as a logical, and presumably, expected result of that objective. It would, therefore, appear that the regulatory system should facilitate and encourage the development of a national securities market . . . One of the effects of having separate laws rather than national legislation has been to obstruct and burden unnecessarily the development of the national market. 

 -Perhaps, Senator Rae, we can shorten each other's speaking time. The honourable senator may anticipate some of the other quotes that I may leave out because of shortage of time. It is an excellent report. The other main limb on which the basic recommendation is founded is another passage in the report which talks about what has gone wrong in the operation of the securities market. The Committee states: 
We found in the securities markets a high level of abuse and much behaviour falling short of minimum acceptable standards of fair dealing, competence and responsibility. After examination of the existing body of law, rules and administrative practices, we have concluded that these failed to provide adequate and effective regulation. In our view, there is a need for a new approach to securities regulation in Australia. 
The new approach the Rae Committee recommended was built very much around the concept of national legislation and national machinery established by that national legislation in pursuit of the Commonwealth's constitutional powers. That the Commonwealth does have power to act in this area is, in my submission, as clear as it could be, given that the area has not yet been completely charted by High Court decisions and, to some extent, one does have to rely on analysis and extrapolation of likely trends in those decisions. The Labor Government, when introducing its own corporations and securities industry legislation in 1 974 and when foreshadowing the further introduction of substantive companies legislation which was to be introduced in that illfated week in November 1975, was certainly satisfied that the corporation's power in section 51(xx) of the Constitution in itself, provided sufficiently ample constitutional foundation for this kind of legislation. In addition, it is possible to rely constitutionally on the trade and commerce power on a number of individual heads of power like the postal, telegraphic and telephonic communications power, and incidental power. Even if, in fact, everyone were genuine about cooperative federalism the reference of particular powers presently enjoyed by the States to the Commonwealth - 
The banking power and insurance power; I will not stop and endeavour to lecture the Senate on the constitutional possiblities. I simply suggest, indeed assert, that there is a substantial body of learned legal opinion which does not suggest that these powers are available. I am well aware that there are some uncertainties. I am well aware for a start that section 5 1 (xx) refers to financial and trading corporations and there are a number of statements, particularly in the very early cases, suggesting that that concept might not extend to manufacturing or mining companies, even though one would have though that the purpose, if not the sole purpose, for the entering into of such enterprise was, in fact, to sell the products of one kind or another of those enterprises and thus to bring them on an expansive definition within the scope of that concept of trading corporation. Again there is a very oft-expressed uncertainty as to whether company law can operate at the Commonwealth level so as to deal with the incorporation for the future of new companies as distinct from merely bite upon or operate upon companies formed in the past. That depends on a rather pedantic argument about the grammatical meaning of the word ' formed as it appears in section 5 1 (xx) of the Constitution, in the context of the following phrase: 
Foreign corporations, and trading or financial corporations formed within the limits of the Commonwealth. 
The cases in the past have tended to proceed on the grammatical assumption that that word formed' was being used as a simple past participle referring to companies already in existence, whereas the counter-argument, if the grammarians want it put precisely, is that really it is a contracted form of the future perfect and refers to companies which may be formed in the future. This is the kind of argument that would have to be fought out in the High Court were the Commonwealth to be adventurous and courageous enough to legislate unilaterally in this area. I am confident that the High Court would be supportive of expansive interpretations. Certainly one would hope that the Commonwealth would not retreat from adventurous legislation in this area, particularly given the attitude of at least one former Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott,  to these matters. It may be recalled that  Mr Ellicott  in 1974 in speaking to the Whitlam Government's National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill made the following remarks: 
. uncertainty as to the extent of constitutional power should never of itself be a reason for opposing an otherwise worthwhile legislative exercise of power; nor should it prevent a government, properly advised, treading where angels of constitutional probity have formerly feared to tread. The High Court, as we know, will readily give us the answer . . . 
Certainly I have noticed no great constitutional timidity on the part of the present Government when it has been enacting new sweeping draconic amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in fairly obviously blithe indifference to the possible constraints imposed by section 5 1 (xxxv.) of the Constitution. It is odd and interesting that an attack of the constitutional jitters seems to overcome it whenever the matter of corporations law and securities industry regulation comes in issue. There is need, as the Rae committee put it, for national legislation in this area. There is, in my submission and certainly in the Labor Party's view, the power to proceed in this way. It is very much our thinking that with the Commonwealth 's timidly operating in the way that it has, with the whole matter being contingent, as it is, on the continued cooperation of the States, the Commission is likely to prove an unsatisfactory abdiction of Commonwealth responsibility. It certainly looks like it at the moment and it is likely to prove unsatisfactory as time goes on. This takes me to the second point of the Opposition's amendment to the motion for second reading. Paragraph (b) states that the Senate:  notes that the proposed legislative scheme places uniformity before reform, and creates both the danger and the likelihood that lowest common denominator standards will prevail. 
The real problem with legislation of this kind, contingent as it is initially on unanimous agreement and thereafter majority agreement, is that the lowest common denominator of standards will apply. This was the experience in respect of the three-State agreement when New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland established the interstate Corporate Affairs Commission. It is even more likely to be the experience when there is a conflict between the more conservative and the more progressive States in the approach to these very large, complex and important areas of company law and securities administration. The likelihood of there being weak legislation in this area, particularly the likelihood of there being sustained conflict and an inability to reach agreement about anything in this area, has been commented upon by many analysts of the legislation and this scheme, perhaps nowhere more succinctly than in the  Australian Financial Review  editorial of 1 November this year when the following was said: 
Co-operative federalism is a fine principle, but falls down as soon as there is an aggrieved State party. Both New South Wales and Queensland have demonstrated that they are prepared to play their own game whatever the Federal rules. 
The reference to New South Wales is, of course, a reference to the brawl that erupted about the threshold question as to where the National Companies and Securities Commission would be located which has only very recently been resolved. The reference to Queensland, however, is more pointed still. The editorial continues: 
If New South Wales threatened to disrupt the NCSC and the takeover laws before they got off the ground, Queensland is threatening a permanent spoke in the wheel. 
The Bjelke-Peterson Government is gearing up - 
Organising itself seems to be the expression -  to protect Queensland companies from 'southerners'. 
This comment is inspired by the Queensland Government's drum beating on the subject of the putative CSR Ltd takeover of Thiess Bros. Pty Limited, in rapt admiration and in an attempt to repeat the performance of  Mr Bolte  in Victoria in 1971 in beating off the Huns and Visigoths of Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd from its takeover of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, the idea being that individual States have interests in maintaining the operation of their industrial base intact for employment, taxation generation and other reasons. For those reasons States are quite likely to behave in a cavalier fashion, whatever the existing overall company law and securities industry structure is, if they perceive their interests being at stake. The  Australian Financial Review  editorial, in winding up, said: 
But the national lesson is that whatever Federal-State legislation emerges from next week's Perth meeting - 
That is the Ministerial Council meeting-  it is bound to run foul of outbreaks of State chauvinism. 
That I think is the fundamental concern the Opposition has about this legislation. It is concerned that the body of substantive law dealing with takeovers and the other very important matters of securities regulation and corporate behaviour will be weak legislation, because it is only weak legislation that will be likely to get the necessary degree of initial unanimous support and subsequent majority support. The Opposition is concerned further that the administration of the legislation by the multiplicity of agencies that are still presently contemplated will create very great problems indeed. The Rae report, in chapter 16 also, deals at some considerable length with the problem of administering securities and company law. It rejects quite unequivocally and very robustly the Eggleston Committee notion of a joint commission and, indeed, the kind of three-State joint commission which we have seen before. The kind of legislative scheme we have at the moment was not present to the mind of the Rae committee at that time.  Senator Rae  no doubt can tell us more about what was to that committee's mind. 
A clear cut concern is expressed about the possibility of different interpretations of the relevant single body of law prevailing between the various administering agencies and the possibility of a great deal of practical problems arising as a result of that competing and possibly conflicting pattern of administration. The existing legislative scheme before the Senate attempts to deal with that to the extent that it vests basic powers, for a start, all in the national commission and proceeds on the basis that the various State administrative agencies will operate thereafter by means merely of delegated power and be subject always, as I understand it, to the overriding direction of the national body. The Opposition simply expresses a very considerable foreboding as to whether in practice that kind of arrangement is likely to work out in quite as streamlined and cool a fashion as that particular formal legislative scenario would seem to suggest. 
The difficulties are that we see very real dangers in that the kind of ongoing co-operative model that this legislation represents will prove to be a very thin reed indeed. The kinds of arrangements embodied in this legislation simply will not be able to withstand the kinds of outbreaks of State chauvinism to which the  Australian Financial Review  editorialist referred. The third major problem with this legislation is that expressed in paragraph (c) of the second reading amendment, which states that the Senate:  expresses its concern at the lack of effective accountability of the proposed Commission to either the Government or Parliament of the Commonwealth, or to any other single elected Government or Parliament. 
This is a very serious problem. The principle of ministerial responsibility has, as we have discovered only too clearly in the last few days, something of a hollow ring about it these days but it does have value in principle to the extent that it means that a Ministei can influence the policy pursued by a particular department or agency and, of course, it means that the Minister is also accountable for what he does in relation to that department or agency. Under the previous Labor Government's proposals, where the whole machinery and administration of the new companies and securities industries law was to operate simple at the national level, there was absolutely no problem on the score of accountability. One Minister was responsible for the administrative operation of the whole system; one Minister took the kicks and accepted the knocks when things went wrong. The buck stopped in a very visible and single location. 
Contrast the present proposals. The concept of ministerial responsibility almost completely disappears. The proposed new national commission will be subject in the main to direction from the Ministerial Council, as clause 7 of the Bill and paragraph 32 of the national agreement underlying that Bill provide. In other words, the Commission will exercise its major functions without being directly answerable to a particular Minister and in particular without being answerable to the Australian Parliament. This derogation, this retreat from ministerial responsibility, becomes particularly clear when one looks at the Agreement, notably paragraphs 32 ( 1 ) and 38(1). I will quote from paragraph 38(1) because I think it makes the point very clear. It states: 
The policy direction and general control over the administration of company law and the regulation of the securities industry throughout Australia by the Ministerial Council and by the Commission in accordance with this agreement shall ... be exercised to the exclusion of  . . Ministerial direction and control by the responsible Minister of the Commonwealth or of the State. 
I will repeat that quote because it is quite a startling proposition. 
-That is paragraph 38 ( 1 ) of the Agreement. It states: 
The policy direction and general control over the administration - 
That is, of this new body, of company and securities law-   . . shall ... be exercised to the exclusion of . . . Ministerial direction and control by the responsible Minister of the Commonwealth or of the State. 
In other words, the only line of responsibility is to the Ministerial Council as a whole and therein lies a perfect answer for a Minister either in this Parliament or in any State Parliament who is asked: 'What in the hell is going on?' Ail the Minister has to do is point to that paragraph and say: ' It is not my responsibility; it is a matter for the Ministerial Council'. No doubt, as  Senator Rae  will tell us, this is exactly the kind of thing that was anticipated by the Rae Committee report and is the subject of the strongest possible condemnation as a rational basis on which to erect an important new body of commercial law. It is not rational; it is positively irrational. It is no way in which to ensure the fundamental responsibility and accountability on which our system depends. 
There is one final aspect of this matter of the by-passing of Parliament which I specifically want to mention. It is the subject of further elaboration in paragraphs (d) and (e) of the second reading amendment. It concerns the problem of the status of proposed amendments to this legislation. During the Committee stage the Opposition will be moving some 26 reasoned amendments based on its assessment of what it perceives to be significant deficiencies in the legislation. This is accepting for the purposes of debate at the Committee stage the basic thrust of the legislation which, as I have indicated, we do not like very much- the co-operative federalist basis of it rather than the exercise of Commonwealth power. But accepting all that, there is still a number of individual things the matter with the legislation, not least of which, for example, is the inadequate provisions relating to pecuniary interests of staff of the Commission or indeed the commissioners themselves. That is the kind of matter which we think ought to be the subject of much tighter and more specific control. We will be moving amendments to try to achieve that. What will be the Government's attitude to those amendments? 
There was certainly no disposition in the other place to accept any one of the Opposition's amendments. Was that for the usual reason- that the Government is quite indifferent to the merits of any rational argument about anything; no matter what kind of Bill is before the Parliament- or was it additionally because the arrangements into which the Government is locked by virtue of the Agreement underlying this legislation are such that it cannot accept any amendment moved in the Parliament, at least without going back to the Ministerial Council with its tail between its legs? This is the sort of pass we have got ourselves into. We are supposed to be a sovereign parliament enacting legislation in the national interest. But we are quite incapable of sensibly debating legislation or quite incapable of pursuing the logical outcome of that debate in moving amendments where deficiencies reveal themselves. If it is a matter of going back to the Ministerial Council, I suppose the Opposition will simply have to accept that with as much fortitude as it can command. Indeed the Minister, I understand, has had an opportunity to go back to the Ministerial Council since this legislation was debated in the House of Representatives. I for one will certainly be very interested to hear from him in his reply as to whether in fact the Government even demonstrated the slightest interest in referring back to that body the kinds of amendments it was asked to make to the legislation. I make these points because once again they point to some of the fundamental problems associated with the implementation of any significant national policy or program on the basis of this kind of co-operative federalist legislative program, dependent, as it is, upon the goodwill of the  Sir Charles  Courts and  Mr BjelkePetersens  of this nation whose goodwill has been a commodity not in spectacularly full supply in recent years. 
We believe that there is a very real prospect of this legislation breaking down for any one of the number of reasons I have indicated. For that reason the last paragraph of the second reading amendment calls upon the Government, in the event of the breakdown for any reason of the scheme embodied in the Bill, to proceed immediately to the introduction of Commonwealth legislation for the national regulation of corporations and of the securities industry. The Labor Government between 1972 and 1975 believed that that was the only rational way to approach the regulation of this commercial law area. I believe that history will justify the sense and the accuracy of that approach and show the Bill before us today for the rather empty and inefficient, although ambitious, sham that it is. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Collard)-  Is the amendment moved by  Senator Evans  seconded? 

 -Mr Chairman, the production changes but the cast of characters remains the same! When consideration of this Bill was interrupted last week we had reached the stage of having accepted the amendment which was moved by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  to clause 9(l)(c) and which had the effect of clarifying some aspects of that clause to make it clear that the functions of the Commission, amongst others, were to report on its own initiative or when requested by the Minister as to the laws that should be made by the Parliament, or action that should be taken by the Commonwealth, on matters relating to human rights. 
The next matter that remained to be attended to was the Opposition's amendment and the Attorney-General's amendment, both to clause 9(1) (d) which provides at present that the further function of the Commission should be:  when requested by the Minister, to report to the Minister as to the action (if any) that, in the opinion of the Commission, needs to be taken by Australia in order to comply with the provisions of the Covenant or of any relevant international instrument; 
As I understand it, the Attorney-General's amendment, which he foreshadowed when this matter was last considered, was to delete that sub-clause entirely as being now unnecessary and redundant, given the extension and the extended operation of clause 9 ( 1 ) (c) which refers not to the Covenant but to human rights generally. On the other hand, my proposed amendment is a little sceptical of the AttorneyGeneral's optimism in that respect that the sub-clauses are completely overlapping. Accordingly, the Opposition wishes to proceed with its amendment which has been circulated on the sheet as amendment No. (3) and the effect of which is to insert at the beginning of clause 9 ( 1) (d) the phrase 'when it appears desirable to the Commission to do so, or when requested by the Minister'. 
The object here is to make it clear that the Commission still has a quite explicit function to investigate the matters relating to the operation of the Covenant and that it should have that power not merely when requested by the Minister but also to initiate such an investigation on its own. On the last occasion I did not take the Attorney-General to be resisting in any way the notion that the Commission ought to have some capacity on its own initiative to look into matters relating to the Covenant. I took it that he wanted to omit that particular sub-clause not for any reason of that kind but because he took it as being subsumed under the new model clause 9(1) (c). The point that the Opposition wants to make in justification of pursuing its proposed amendment and .in arguing accordingly that clause 9 ( 1 ) (d) does not just cover the same territory as clause 9 ( 1 ) (c) but might add something to it is that it seems to us that there is an advantage in having an explicit reference to the Covenant. 
True it is that human rights are denned in this Bill as meaning the rights and freedoms recognised in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights or in any relevant international instrument and true it would be that a general power under clause 9 ( 1 ) (c) to investigate matters relating to human rights would accordingly enable a good deal of the matters associated with the operation of the Covenant to be specifically dealt with; but our concern, for example, is with something like Article 4 1 of the Covenant which on its face is not concerned with the subject matter of any of these human rights but with the procedure whereby a state- that is, a country which is party to the Covenant- may declare its recognition of the competence of the international human rights committee. Again questions might arise as to the proper construction or application of Article 50 of the Covenant, a very important article, which states: 
The provisions of the present Covenant shall extend to all parts of federal States without any limitations or exceptions. 
It may well be that if clause 9 ( 1 ) (d) is retained this can be a vehicle whereby the Commission can properly investigate the extent to which human rights are being effectively looked after in the State areas of the Commonwealth to which this Article of the Covenant applies. But in the absence of clause 9 ( 1 ) (d) it might be that a reference to human rights would have to be read down to mean simply human rights applying in the Commonwealth area. Because of the absence of a specific reference to the Covenant and having simply the reference to human rights which happen to be defined in the Covenant, it seems to me that the procedural clauses in the Covenant and those parts of the Covenant which are not directly concerned with human rights as such but rather with the scope, operation and procedures associated with the Covenant, may be outside the Commission's scope. Again, of course, questions arise as to the potential application of the optional protocol which is the kind of question which it seems to us the Commission ought to be able to investigate and which might conceivably be outside the range of clause 9 ( 1 ) (c) but not outside the range of clause 9(1) (d) if the clause is left as it is. 
For all those reasons- it may be that the Opposition is being excessively cautious in this respect- we believe, nonetheless, that there is some utility in preserving that specific reference to the Covenant and, indeed, to other relevant international instruments. We would ask that the Attorney both accept the Opposition's amendment and not persist with his own amendment which would repeal the sub-clause entirely. Accordingly, I move: 
3 ) Page 6, clause 9, sub-clause ( 1 ), paragraph ( d ), line 1 , before 'when', insert 'when it appears desirable to the Commission to do so, or'. 
-With respect to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  some kind of argument- I do not know how sophisticated- has been advanced by me and  Senator Missen  to which the Attorney-General has not addressed himself in his reply. I know that the Attorney-General is preoccupied with people peering over his shoulder and talking into his ear, but my argument was concerned with particular issues, such as the meaning and application of Article 41 and Article 50 of the Covenant and the possible application of the optional protocol, all of which seem to be outside the immediate sphere of dealing with human rights. They deal not so much with human rights as with the machinery by which those human rights are protected. 

 Senator Missen advanced similarly a kind of expressiounius argument of some force- I adopt it myself- in respect of the possible disadvantage of now getting rid of paragraph (d) but retaining paragraph (e). That would rather suggest a quite limited power being vested in the Commission in respect of international instruments, given the fact that that matter has been singled out specifically to the exclusion of any other matter as far as international instruments are concerned. So although I can understand an argument that paragraph (c) does cover the whole field, I hope that the matter will be given serious attention before we rather relaxedly just consign paragraph (d) to the dust and possibly find ourselves in some legal trouble later on. 
Amendment negatived. 
-On that subject, I am indebted to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  for that suggestion. I certainly support it as, I take it, does  Senator Missen.  In the light of the Attorney's willingness to postpone consideration of this clause, might I take the opportunity of asking him whether he is willing to share with the Committee the Government's precise intentions regarding the future of this legislation this session. 1 understand that certain changes of heart having been accomplished by my colleagues opposite, Senators Missen, Puplick and Bonner. 
There may have been no changes of heart, but at least there was a change of willingness to demonstrate that heart in public. As a result of the Press release that has been issued, I understand that certain amendments will not be voted upon favourably by those honourable senators, in return for which, I understood, the Government was in fact proposing to proceed with the legislation and not to consign it to the limbo where it might otherwise have resided. However, I am further led to understand that all this may be a complete waste of time anyway because the Government has no real intention, if the legislation is passed through this chamber this week, of taking it into the House of Representatives and seeking to get it through there before this Parliament rises. Before we all participate in what is fast assuming the appearance of a charade on this legislation, is the Attorney prepared, whether it is tonight or tomorrow morning, to indicate to the Opposition, to this chamber, to the public and to his own Government back benchers what precisely the Government's intentions are regarding this legislation this session? 
-With respect, the Opposition will not be intimidated in that way. For God 's sake, if it is simply a matter of sleeping on it over night, coming back in the morning and finishing the Bill off in five minutes surely the Attorney-General ought to be able to co-operate. It seems to me that he is getting tetchy because for once the Senate is behaving like a proper House of review and matters are emerging in the course of argument rather than people simply adopting predetermined postures. It seems to me that that is the way we must proceed. Matters such as this will arise which will require consideration. Another one or two might even emerge in the next hour or so which we can clean up tommorrow morning in the light of further consideration. On that basis, I would prefer that we postpone consideration, continue the debate, and get done as much as we can, with or without the presence of  Senator Archer,  who appears to be leaving the chamber, and whose contributions are not especially helpful on this or anything else, for that matter. 
-Thank you. That is appreciated. 
Motion (by  Senator Durack)  agreed to: 
That consideration of clause 9 ( 1 ) (d) be postponed. 
-Once again there is a small matter in clause 9 ( 1 ) (f) about which I wish to ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  I wish to know whether he has been approached by distinguished international lawyers and others with a view to adding a phrase to clause 9 ( 1 ) (f) where it says: 
to promote an understanding and acceptance, and the public discussion, of human rights in Australia and the external Territories; 
What is the attitude of the Attorney-General to the insertion after the words 'human rights', of the expression 'and of international humanitarian law'? Honourable senators will be aware that the International Committee of the Red Cross has recently circulated a pamphlet to all of us indicating the nature and content of international humanitarian law. 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
I do not labour the point but the main content of the international humanitarian law is the Geneva conventions associated with the conduct of war, matters certainly unequivocably related to human rights and the dignity of the individual. I simply raise the question, as I understand that it has been put to the Attorney-General from some quite distinguished sources, of whether that amendment is in any way acceptable to the Government. 
I was puzzled for a time when I heard  Senator Missen  commence his speech on this proposed new clause 9 ( 1 ). I had understood that this was one of those matters on which he was engaged in something of a contretemps with the Government and on which he had not, along with his colleagues, retreated into a state of monastic abstention. But it appears that  Senator Missen  is pursuing this clause. Indeed, the Opposition supports him. It would add another string to the bow of the Human Rights Commission to at least be able to investigate and report upon the state of human rights, by reference to the standards in the Covenant, in the States and in the territories where most of the civil liberty interfering action, as we know, takes place. However, when one closely examines this kind of clause one sees why it is that  Senator Missen,  and no doubt his colleagues, were able to accommodate themselves to it and, in particular, how the Government was able to accommodate itself to the chance of a clause such as this appearing in the final Bill. 
The reality is that a clause of this kind by itself will not do very much at all to improve the actual situation on the ground. The real thing that matters, if one is talking about the enjoyment and the protection of human rights in the States, is to have some enforcement mechanism attached to provisions of this kind which would enable the investigation of particular complaints and the following up of such investigation by, where appropriate, court proceedings and by, where it is even more appropriate, the striking down in those court proceedings of particular pieces of obnoxious legislation. Of course, nothing of that kind is within the compass of  Senator Missen  's amendment. There is a certain capacity which one notices from  Senator Missen  from time to time for what I might describe kindly as selective indignation; the problem is identified with some vigour but the solution is perhaps somewhat less robust than the nature of the problem might tend to make one believe. 
It may be too robust to be accepted, but I am glad to know it is at least in that middle category of matters which the Government does not accept but if, by some fortuitous turn of the voting cards, it should be defeated on it will not take its bat and ball home and deny the Australian public such merit as this legislation may possess. It is pleasant to have at least that understanding, which I hope the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  will now confirm. I simply reiterate the Opposition's support for a small, additional string to the Commission 's bow which will at least get it into the area of looking at State laws. Hopefully that might provide the foundation on which some more substantial excursion into the correction of real injustice may, in the future, take place. 
I move: 
The requirement that a complainant have a 'sufficient interest' is an imprecise formula which could prove very restrictive if traditional views as to what constitutes a 'sufficient interest' in law are to be adopted. The Australian Law Reform Commission, in its Discussion Paper on Access to the Courts, criticised traditional rules on standing. It opted for giving courts power to reject actions "if satisfied that the plaintiff has no real concern with the issues". 
That discussion paper is an indication of the expression of the Law Reform Commission. The language of concern does not seem to have anything like the same real legal connotation but it may well be sufficient. I am certainly prepared to accept that. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 30 August 1 979: 
What is the reason for the continuing delay in promulgating regulations under the Family Law Act 1975, s. 1 1 1, to enable performance of Australia's obligations under the United Nations Convention on the Recovery Abroad of Maintenance signed on 20 June 1956, which matter was the subject of House of Representatives Question on Notice Nos 233 of 1977, 121 of 1978 and 799 of 1978, by the Honourable E. G. Whitlam. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 1 8 September 1 979: 
1 ) Does Victoria have only three Prescribed Authorities available outside office hours for the purpose of determining time-shortening applications by couples lodging Notices of Intended Marriage. 
Does New South Wales have at least six such Prescribed Authorities as well as certain Justices of the Peace with similar powers. 
Can hardships arise in particular cases if Prescribed Authorities are not available outside office ours for shortening of time purposes in urgent cases. 
What is the reason for the apparent disparity in the availability of services in this respect between Victoria and New South Wales. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 24 October 1979: 
1 ) Is it the practice of the Depanment of Social Security to postpone payment of unemployment benefits to persons who apply for unemployment benefits shortly after failing the 'work-test'; if so, what are the terms of the Instruction which governs this practice. 
Is this practice supported by the Social Services Act 1947; if so, by what provision; if not, when will the Department abandon its illegal practice. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 24 October 1979: 
1 ) Is it the practice of the Department of Social Security, where a widow's pension or a supporting parent's benefit is cancelled by the Department on the ground that the pensioner or beneficiary is living on a bona fide domestic basis with a man, or woman, as husband and wife, to: (a) provide notice of its intention to cancel; (b) give the pensioner or beneficiary details of the evidence on which it concludes that there are grounds for disqualification; and (c) allow the pensioner or beneficiary an opportunity to rebut that evidence. 
If it is the practice of the Department to conform to these basic rules of natural justice: (a) for what length of time is the notice which is provided; (b) what details of the evidence are provided (for example, reports of field officers, the names of informants, and copies of all statements); and (c) is the pensioner or beneficiary permitted to make an oral or written representation to the Department. 
Will the Department, if the notice, information and opportunity referred to in (1) above are not provided, restructure its procedures in view of the serious invasion of the rights of pensioners and beneficiaries involved in such a denial of natural justice. 
In addressing a question to the Attorney-General I invite him to take his mind off telephone taps and informers for a moment and to focus on perhaps the most sensitive single issue in Australia- United States relations at the moment. I refer to the Dillingham Corporation's claim against the Australian Government in respect of the Fraser Island sand mining operation. Is the Attorney-General aware that the former Australian Ambassador to the United States,  Mr Alan  Renouf, has stated in a letter to appear in the shortly forthcoming issue of the  Australian Law Journal  that in his view the Australian Government made an 'error of magnitude ' in choosing to go to the International Court of Justice in this matter rather than to arbitration and that the Australian Government is quite likely to be seriously politically embarrassed, over time, as a result of this decision. Given the advice that one must assume was received from our Washington Embassy at the time, why did the Government choose to bypass the arbitration process in this matter? I further ask what is the general state of negotiations on the Dillingham claim, there having been in recent days, I understand, a visit by United States Government representatives to Australia to discuss the progress of this litigation. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 24 October 1 979: 
Has the Department of Social Security recently amended its instructions in relation to the disqualification from unemployment benefits for 'direct participation in a strike '; if so, why were the previous instructions altered. 
What is the content of the current instructions dealing with 'direct participation in a strike'. 
I would like to correct what may have been a misleading impression created by one passage in the report of Senate Estimates Committee B of which I was a member. The Committee was discussing a Minister's withholding of certain information from the Committee. The report states: 
Specific information was sought in two areas of the Attorney-General's Department, the first relating to fees paid by the Commonwealth to a Queen's Counsel acting on its behalf, with the second concerning the cancellation of the Sixth United Nations Conference. The Attorney-General has replied to the Committee's satisfaction in relation to the second matter and no doubt a reply concerning the Queen's 
Counsel's fees will be forthcoming before the Senate considers the Committee's report. 
I make no comment about the matter of the Queen 's Counsel 's fees although it did refer to  Mr Rofe  and the current conduct of the conspiracy case in Sydney which has been the subject of a good deal of comment. Indeed, the reply of the Attorney-General on that matter was quite informative and forthcoming. However, I for one am not satisfied with the reply that the AttorneyGeneral gave in relation to the reasons for the cancellation of the sixth United Nations Congress on Crime. Australia was to host this very important gathering at the Sydney Opera House in August and September 1980. 
The United Nations crime congresses are held every five years. They study a very wide range of matters concerned with crime including crime prevention policies, alternatives to imprisonment and the human rights of prisoners. It was proposed that the congress be attended by up to 2,000 participants from more than 100 countries, including Ministers of justice, judges, criminologists and leading figures in the field of corrections, police, social welfare, mental health, education and a number of related areas. The hosting of this conference was something that the Australian Government in 1975 at the time of the last conference had undertaken with a good deal of drum beating and, indeed, a good deal of justified pride. The Government has itself said in publicity associated with this congress that it would focus world attention on Australian criminal justice, laws and practices and on criminology in Australia. 
This is no trivial international gathering we are talking about, but one of very great consequence. It was cancelled, however, abruptly in June this year after very large sums of money had already been spent on preliminary organisation for it. In the last financial year $ 1 31 ,451 was revealed in the estimates as having been the amount actually expended in the employment of full time personnel and other associated expenditure to set this very complicated conference in train. The reasons given at the time the announcement was made were cursory in the extreme. In the Attorney-General's Press release the statement was simply made in the following terms: 
Having considered all the circumstances, the Government had concluded that it would not be practicable for it to host the congress. 
To the extent that there was any public or private speculation at the time as to why the Congress had been cancelled, let me point out that the reason was apparently the possible attendance at the conference of an observer delegation from  the Palestine Liberation Organisation. The PLO is one of those organisations which, by virtue of the United Nations resolutions, has a standing invitation to attend United Nations gatherings of various kinds of which the United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders is one, Because of the lack of forthcoming information from the Government as to the reasons for the cancellation of this prestigious affair and because of the squandering of public money that was obviously involved in such a cancellation at this time, I put a series of questions to the Attorney at the hearings of this Estimates Committee. The Attorney took the questions on notice and replied to them. To shorten my speech and for convenience I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  both the text of those questions and the Attorney's answers. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

SENATE ESTIMATES COMMITTEE B 
Questions Asked By  Senator Evans  Concerning The Sixth United Nations Congress On Crime 
Questions Asked by  Senator Evans: 
1 ) Did the Government have knowledge at any stage that a delegation was proposed to be sent from the Palestine Liberation Organization? 
When did it come to the knowledge of the Government that it was proposed to send such a delegation, if such knowledge did come to the Government's attention? 
Did the Government obtain an adverse security report in respect of the proposed delegation, in the sense that the Government took the view that it could not guarantee the safety of some or all of the delegates to the Conference? 
If there was such an adverse security report, was that the reason for the Government's decision to decline to host the Conference or was there rather some other consideration, namely, as has been the subject of Press speculation, the fear of adverse political reaction from Jewish groups within the Australian community? 
Was the initial Government decision one to decline entirely to host the Conference or rather to seek to postpone it, as was the Canadian response to an apparently similar situation? 
When was the decision taken actually to decline to hold the Conference, and when was such a decision communicated to the United Nations Secretariat? 
What in substance was the nature of the reaction received from the United Nations Secretariat to the communication in question? 
What reactions, if any, were received from the other proposed participating nations to this particular news? 
Proposed Answers: 
1 ) and (2) The Government did not have knowledge of what delegations would attend the Congress because the registration procedure for attendance at the Congress had not commenced at the time of Australia's withdrawal as host. However, the Government was aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the Congress which provide for participation in the Congress by delegations of States and by other participants and observers, including observers from organizations that have received a standing invitation from the General Assembly to attend certain United Nations meetings, observers from national liberation movements invited to the Congress, observers from United Nations organizations and related agencies, inter-governmental organizations and non-governmental organizations, and individual experts. 
Following the practice of successive Governments, I do not propose to provide particulars of matters relating to security. 
There was no one reason why the Government came to its decision, but a combination of a number of domestic factors upon which it would not be appropriate for me to elaborate. I have nothing additional to add to the statement that I made on the matter on 1 5 June 1 979. 
The Government's decision was a decision not to host the Congress. 
A decision in principle was made by the Government on 22 May 1979 but the decision provided for the finalising of the terms of the communication to the United Nations. The terms of the communication were finalised on 13 June 1979 and sent by cable to the Australian Mission to the United Nations on the same day. A note dated 13 June 1979 containing the terms of the communication was conveyed to the United Nations Secretariat on 14 June 1979. 
The Secretary-General of the United Nations replied noting the expression of regret on the pan of the Australian Government and stating that the necessary measures would be taken to inform the Economic and Social Council. 
The only reactions received have been requests for information relating to the Government's decision. The information supplied was that referred to above in my answer to Question (4) and the information contained in my statement on 15 June 1979. 
-The key part of the Attorney-General's answer, in response to my questions as to whether the PLO visit was, in fact, the reason for the Government's activity, was in the following terms: 
There was no one reason why the Government came to its decision, but a combination of a number of domestic factors upon which it would not be appropriate for me to elaborate. I have nothing additional to add to the statement that I made on the matter on 1 5 June 1 979. 
It seems to me, to the Opposition and, indeed, to some of the Government senators on that Committee that that was not an entirely satisfactory answer, to say the least. I pursue the matter on this occasion and seek from the Attorney a more forthcoming response on what the Government's real reason was. If it was something to do with the likely visit of a small observer delegation from the PLO, I and the Senate would like to know whether that, in itself, was sufficient justification in the Government's mind for cancelling the Congress. I have no  particular  brief to advance for that Organisation although I do make the point that as the history of the Middle East dispute has evolved it does seem to be more and more pigheaded - 
It does seem,  Senator Mulvihill,  rather pigheaded for the Government to be taking a head-in-the-sand attitude towards this Organisation which exists. Moshe Dayan, after all, has found it convenient and desirable to engage in negotiations with the Organisation and the United States Government has recently found it desirable to seek its good offices in the context of the appalling affair in Tehran. I am concerned if the reason the Government has abandoned the conference was its concern at the impending visit of a small delegation from this Organisation. I am further concerned that the reason lying behind that decision was not any concern that there would be any actual threat to the security of Australia as a result of the visit of that Organisation but rather a blatant political one, that the visit of that Organisation to an event sponsored by the Government in an election year would be unpopular with some significant sections of the Australian community and would, as a result, conceivably do some political damage to the Government. If that was indeed the reason, as I suspect it is, and as many honourable senators on both sides of this chamber suspect it is, let us please have an open and honest articulation of those reasons. The Government has a good deal of explaining to do when an important prestigious occasion like this of great intrinsic significance, of great significance to world criminology, is in fact cancelled in circumstances where a very large sum of taxpayers' money has already been expended in setting that conference in train. I repeat that the language which appears in the Committee's report about our satisfaction with the Attorney's reply is, although this is no doubt inadvertent and no fault of the Committee secretariat, an inaccurate expression of my response to the Attorney's reply. I think it appropriate that he be more forthcoming now as to the reasons for the cancellation of this conference. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m.  ( Quorum formed). 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Trade and Resources 
Proposed expenditure, $30 1 ,633,000. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and concerns the social security conspiracy case. Is the Attorney-General aware of the existence of a report from Detective Chief Inspector Thomas to the officer-in-charge of the Commonwealth Police, New South Wales district, dated 10 August 1977, which report canvasses in detail the role of a key informer in the case and notes that both an indemnity and a reward were being sought by him? Is the AttorneyGeneral aware further of a note attached to that report by Detective Chief Inspector Thomas, dated 24 August 1977, indicating that that report had been discussed at the officers' meeting held on that day, 24 August, which meeting has been the subject of earlier questions and answers in this chamber? Finally, at the time the AttorneyGeneral considered giving the indemnity or pardon to  Mr Nakis,  did the file before him contain the report to which I have referred, with or without the note attached to it to which I have referred? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
In moving that motion with respect to the report of the Committee of Inquiry concerning Public Duty and Private Interest- the Bowen Committee- which is a report about which a statement has been tabled and circulated, I say briefly that the most cursory scrutiny of the tabled statement summarising the report indicates that the report of the Bowen Committee is, regrettably, something of a damp squib. It is insensitive to the issues and both timid and unimaginative in the kinds of solutions it is proposing. Moreover, it also appears from the tabling statement that the Government's reaction to that 
Committee's report, regrettably, appears to be nothing short of contemptuous not only of the Bowen Committee itself, which devoted a very long time to the development of its recommendations, but also of the public interest which that Committee was purporting to protect. The irony, indeed the aptness, of this Government's stating that it is unable to accept the establishment of an integrity commission will not go unnoticed by the Australian community. 1 simply make the final point that it is obviously of the utmost importance that the matters dealt with in this report and in the Government's initial reaction to it be debated by this Parliament at the earliest opportunity. I hope that the Government's statement of intention to allow such a debate which appears in the tabling statement is not one of those sonorous banalities that we are becoming accustomed to from the Government and of the kind that were made with respect to the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships, which we now wind up yet another session without addressing overselves to. The matters raised by this report are of the utmost importance to our credibility as parliamentarians and public representatives. It is crucially important that this matter be allowed to be debated. The Opposition looks forward to a much more explicit undertaking from the Government than it has so far received that there will be such an opportunity very early in the next session. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would enable Senators Hamer and Evans to speak for no longer than 10 minutes each to the motion to take note of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs reports on scrutiny of Bills and delegation of parliamentary authority. 
I do not canvass the substance of those reports except to say that they are obviously important. Despite some earlier interjections from  Senator Lewis,  they deserve the notice of the Senate. They represent a substantial and thoughtful set of recommendations about the reform of parliamentary procedure. The total rejection of the recommendations by the Government in the casual and unargued way that appears from this statement is nothing short of contemptible and a contemptible treatment of this Parliament. I would say something, not about the substance of the reports, but about the attitude of the Government to the gagging of this debate. It was an arrangement or understanding that had been reached no longer than a couple of hours ago and which no subsequent developments in this chamber have done anything to breach or undermine, so far as the attitude of the Government back benchers or the Opposition is concerned. 

 - Mr President, with respect, I am speaking to it. The motion is prompted by a clear breach of an arrangement by the Government Whip,  Senator Baume-  for reasons best known only to himself- and I hope that he will do us the courtesy now of communicating those reasons to the Senate. One suspects that the only possible reason for the Government's taking this attitude is that it had become apparent from the opening speech of  Senator Missen  that there existed intense hostility to the Government's statement on the part of the honourable senator as  Chairman  of the Committee. It was also known to the Government that there would be equal hostility from  Senator Hamer,  as undoubtedly there was from  Senator Tate  and as undoubtedly there will be from me. The Government is embarrassed by the report. It does not wish to listen to debate, however short- and it will be short because that was the basis of the arrangement that we had entered into and had no intention whatever of breaching. 
We are all under strain and tension because of the way in which the business of the Senate has been conducted in the last 48 hours, because of the way in which the Government has gone about the whole process of winding up the legislative program for this session. We are under strain and tension and becoming irritable but that is absolutely no excuse for the Government's behaving as it has done- breaking a clear arrangement, agreement and undertaking for reasons which are apparently capable of being described only as blatantly and contemptibly political. 
I simply indicate at this Committee stage of the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill that the Opposition's attitude is one of complete opposition to every substantive provision in this Bill. Under the guise of being a sensible rationalisation of human rights institutions, what it really amounts to is a destruction, for political reasons, of the political and social effectiveness of  Mr Al  Grassby, the Commissioner for Community Relations. It is an exercise which the migrant community for one certainly will not forget. It is also an exercise that the Opposition cannot possibly be a party to. 
Bills reported with amendments to the Human Rights Commission Bill; report adopted. 
-The Opposition simply records its view that, in our opinion, this is a quite empty amendment. We do not oppose it, but we see no joy in it whatsoever. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause 32 agreed to. 
Clause 33 agreed to. 
Clause 34. (Non-disclosure of private information). 
-The Opposition has circulated a proposed amendment to clause 4, which is in substitution of a provision in the Customs Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1979.I shall explain it as succinctly as I can. The amendment relates to section 2 19 Bof the Customs Act, as proposed to be amended by this Bill. That section, when amended, would limit the circumstances under which Australian Federal Police officers could use listening devices for the purposes of narcotics inquiries, but the amending clause mentions nothing about the use of listening devices by such officers in relation to other offences. At the moment the reality is that the use of listening devices by Australian police officers is sanctioned by State law. 
The Opposition believes that it is inappropriate that powers as significant as powers involved in the use of listening devices should be exercised by Commonwealth officers pursuant to State laws. If the Commonwealth proposes by future legislation to vest in Australian Federal Police officers a power to use listening devices in relation to non-narcotics offences, that is something which we can debate in that context at another time. But for the moment the Opposition takes the view that this opportunity should be grasped to limit the power of Australian Federal Police officers to install and utilise listening devices to narcotics offences and to remove the power to use listening devices in non-narcotics areas. That is the substance of paragraph (a) of the proposed amendment. Paragraph (b) simply repeats the proposed provision in the existing Bill. I move: 
Page 2, clause 4, lines 14 and 15, leave out all words after amended', insert the following paragraphs: 
by omitting from sub-section ( 1 ) "for the purpose of narcotics inquiries that are being made by officers of Customs"; and 
by inserting in sub-section (2) "narcotics" before "inquiries".'. 
I seek leave to move the amendments together. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
Amendments negatived. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I simply indicate that in view of the time and the way in which my colleagues on the other side of the chamber have openly indicated their attitude, the Opposition does not propose to push this matter to a vote, which we would otherwise have done. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clauses 17 to 31- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 3 1a. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs seen various reports, most recently in the  Age  newspaper this morning, that in his confidential report to the Government on the Narcotics Bureau,  Mr Justice  Williams strongly criticised the permanent head of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Tim  Besley, over his evidence to that inquiry? The criticism is made on the basis, amongst other reasons, that he deliberately suppressed certain material and such conduct is described as 'lamentable'. If these reports are accurate, what does the Government propose to do in relation to  Mr Besley?  Will it take the view that he is personally responsible for this behaviour and take appropriate punitive action accordingly; or will it take the view that, under our Constitution and the Westminster conventions, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs is himself responsible for such serious departmental administration, and that he will accept that responsibility and resign; or will it rather take the view that senior public servants are a law unto themselves, and do absolutely nothing? 
It is a matter of great regret to the Opposition that these important Bills have been brought on at the tail end of what for all of us has been a gruelling week and a gruelling session. However, the Bills must be debated because they are of very considerable significance. They reflect the decision forced upon the Government, much to its embarrassment, by the recent report of  Mr Justice  Williams containing a recommendation to disband the Federal Narcotics Bureau and to vest the Federal narcotics law enforcement powers in the new Australian Federal Police. It is not my intention at this stage of the session to canvass at any great length the many issues that are raised by these Bills. After all, many of the issues have been debated extensively in various other contexts in recent months. Moreover, the Government has shown, regrettably, no disposition whatsoever to listen to reasoned argument on this subject. Accordingly, a long debate would be somewhat futile. Nonetheless, a number of points must be made by the Opposition to explain its quite serious reservations about these Bills and, in particular, to explain why it does not want them to go on to the statute book in any permanent form at this stage. Rather, we argue that they should contain a sunset provision which would enable this Parliament to reconsider them in their entirety when it resumes in February next year. 
The first point to be made about the Bills in question is that they involve conferring on the Australian Federal Police powers which in their scope and nature are sweeping and unprecedented. They include powers to tap telephones, hitherto available only in the limited context of national security; powers to install listening devices, previously not available at all under Commonwealth law but only under certain State laws; and powers to intercept mail and other forms of telecommunications, unprecedented in any jurisdiction. It may be that the horrifying nature of the drug trade, as it has recently built up, demands such measures. Indeed, the Opposition, with certain qualifications, has accepted that view. Nonetheless, we make the point, as we have on the many occasions on which we have debated these matters in recent months, that powers of this kind have an enormously destructive potential for civil liberties. Powers in relation to the tapping of telephones and the installation of listening devices in particular by their very nature involve unselective, exploratory and indiscriminate invasions of people's privacy. The question that must be asked constantly by the Government, by the Opposition, and by this Parliament is this: Is the price worth it? Is the price too high to pay in any particular case? That question must be central in our minds. 
Throughout the argument on these matters the Opposition has taken the view that if these powers are going to be available to anyone they must be accompanied by a range of appropriate safeguards governing their exercise. Accordingly we have moved, so far unsuccessfully, that when these powers are exercised they should be exercised only in accordance with judicial warrants which are granted on the basis of extensive affidavits sworn in support of the applications for such warrants. We have moved further, again unsuccessfully, to require that the judges issuing such warrants do so only when they are persuaded that less extreme measures of law enforcement either have been tried and proved unsuccessful or would be manifestly inappropriate. We have moved, again unsuccessfully, on previous occasions, that there be quite significant limitations of time attached to these warrants. 
These attempts to write in safeguards of this kind have assumed particular importance in this narcotics context when one remembers the nature of the offences in relation to which these powers can be exercised. These powers relate not only to large-scale heroin traffickers whose activities we would all deplore and condemn, but also, under the terms of the Customs legislation as it now stands, are available for pursuit of what are, on any view, quite minor offenders. I refer to people who, for example, are suspected of having been in possession at some stage of less than one gramme of imported cannabis. Bearing all this in mind we see that the Parliament must scrutinise very carefully indeed the vesting of powers of this kind in anybody. As I have said, it is now proposed to vest these powers not in the Narcotics Bureau, which has been disbanded, but rather in the Australian Federal Police. However, it is proposed to vest them in Australian Federal Police at a time when that organisation is under a serious cloud as a result of facts which have been emerging daily in the conduct of the social security frauds case now taking place in Sydney. 
Is it really necessary to remind the Senate that the Opposition made exactly these same points a few months ago when we were debating the vesting of these powers in the Narcotics Bureau? Is it necessary to remind the Senate that having made those points we have been thoroughly vindicated by the subsequent course of events? It will be remembered, of course, that we said that however desirable it might be in the abstract for powers of this kind to be available for narcotics law enforcement, it would be indefensible for the 
Government to be proposing to vest such powers in a narcotics bureau which was itself then under a serious cloud, with unanswered allegations outstanding in respect of both its competence and, more particularly and more seriously still, its integrity and its freedom from corruption of an internal kind. It will be remembered that that debate took place against the backdrop of the Wilson murders, the allegations made in the Halpin book and further allegations made in the Delaney book about what was going on then in the Bureau of Customs. It took place against a background of the extraordinary resignation and reinstatement of  Mr Harvey  Bates in circumstances which at the time remained utterly mysterious. 
But then, of course, the legislation having gone through, having been forced through by this Government under these circumstances, we had tabled in this Parliament just a few weeks ago the interim report of  Mr Justice  Williams' Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs recommending the disbanding of that narcotics bureau. That is a public report that we have all seen. It makes out an absolutely unassailable case, which certainly the Government could not ignore, about the incompetence of that bureau and the way in which it had been preoccupied with public relations at the expense of substantive achievement. It indicated the total lack of confidence which judges and courts had had, notwithstanding those public relations, in the activities of that bureau. Moreover, it subsequently appeared that the confidential report which  Mr Justice  Williams issued at the same time takes those allegations rather further than simple incompetence to the extent that there are very grave reasons to suppose that that organisation was not free from corruption of a high order. It emerged further, as a result of those reports and in the course of the subsequent debates, that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  and the Government had knowledge of the circumstances of that report and the likely recommendations of the Williams royal commission. At the very time that this legislation was being debated in Parliament they had knowledge of the situation to which the Opposition was drawing attention. 
The Narcotics Bureau has now been disbanded. That is all history. It is proposed to vest those very same powers in the new Australian Federal Police. Surely we can be forgiven for having an awful sense of deja vu about this situation. At the very time that this Government is forcing this legislation through the Parliament in the dying hours of this session we have a situation of revelations, emerging again on an almost daily basis, about a thoroughly unsatisfactory state of affairs which has existed and which must, in the absence of contrary evidence, be presumed to be continuing to exist in the former Commonwealth Police which is now the main component of the new Australian Federal Police. Those revelations have emerged in the course of the conduct of the social security conspiracy case, as it has been labelled. Perhaps most importantly of all, we have had evidence emerging in relation to serious illegalities having been committed by members of what is now the Australian Federal Police in the conduct of criminal investigations- the investigations leading up to the prosecutions in that social security case. 
It emerged clearly, it will be remembered from the evidence of Inspector Thomas a couple of weeks ago that the then Commonwealth Police had been engaging regularly in the interception and recording of telephone communications in circumstances which were conceded to be a clear breach of section 5 of the Telecommunications (Interception) Act as it then existed, and probably also a breach of Telecommunication By-law No. 1 9. We have had a demonstration in the evidence of Inspector Thomas in that case not only of an ignorance, and an acknowledgement of ignorance, of the laws in question but also a demonstration of indifference to the existence of court decisions- not only the recent Padman case but also the Victorian case in 1 972 of Matthews and Ford, which clearly established the illegality of the procedures which were then being employed by the Police Force. 
In the course of this Sydney case we have had a further emerging of evidence of a startling kind relating to the cavalier indifference of the then Commonwealth Police to the conduct of arrests. Circumstances have emerged both in the course of this case and in the run up to it whereby statutory declarations have been made about the Commonwealth Police having engaged in the original raid on the Greek community, which involved forcible entry in a number of cases without a warrant either having been in existence or at least having been produced to the persons in question on request. Arrests- or at least detentions, to use the euphemism- have been made without warrant or in circumstances where an arrest without warrant was unjustified, as indeed has been demonstrated by the unwillingness of the police subsequently to proceed to the prosectuion of a number of those persons so detained. We have had circumstances again emerging in the course of the evidence recently given in that case - 
Let me say this,  Mr President:  In that case we have Inspector Thomas, in explanation of the decision to prosecute the particular persons before the court rather than others, saying that the choice of the 182 who were to be prosecuted was not based on any more rational consideration than 'the operation of the fickle finger of fate'. Extraordinarily enough, Inspector Thomas used that expression in answer to questions in the course of that trial to explain why it was that some people were prosecuted and others were not. Those who were prosecuted happened to be at home at the time when the police made their raids. There was no more rational basis than that. Again, we have had clearly emerging from the course of those proceedings- without referring to any individual litigant or defendant- evidence of very dubious behaviour on the part of those police officers with respect to the conduct of the prosecutions. I refer in particular to their failure to inform the prosecuting authorities in the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor's Office and elsewhere about the circumstances in which the basic evidence which led to the raids in question had been obtained from informers, and the nature of the relationship between the police force and those informers. 
I mention those matters only very quickly but they are significant because they demonstrate that there is a great deal still to be explained and a good deal still to be answered for so far as the conduct of the Commonwealth Police is concerned. Of course, presumably it will be said by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that it is not good enough to say that any conclusions can be drawn from the behaviour of the Commonwealth Police in that context. It will be said that that was the Commonwealth Police and now we have a new organisation, the Australian Federal Police, with new leadership, and that now, whatever might have been the case before, there are no reasonable grounds for concern. But it has to be understood that that is just not so. The Commonwealth Police has been incorporated lock, stock and barrel into the new Australian Federal Police and is the major component of it. 
The high level leadership of the new Australian Federal Police is essentially the same as that of the previous Commonwealth Police. There is, of course, an exception with the appointment of  Sir Colin  Woods as the new 
Commissioner.  His  record in the United Kingdom is such as to encourage, I readily acknowledge, the greatest confidence in both his capacity and his integrity. But he no more than anyone else can work miracles overnight and it simply cannot be assumed with the new Australian Federal Police that we have at the momentwhatever may prove to be the case in the months ahead- an organisation which is a different kind of animal from the old Commonwealth Police. Further, there is still no criminal investigation Act on the statute book at a federal level to set a proper legal framework or safeguards within which that new police force can perform criminal investigations. There is still no complaints legislation on the statute book, notwithstanding the absolutely unequivocal undertaking of the Minister for Administrative Services,  Mr John  McLeay, on 1 3 June that such legislation would be introduced this session. 
In the light of all these things, the circumstance that the Opposition puts, and puts very strongly, to the Government is that there is just no basis on which we can be confident that things have changed. These considerations lead the Opposition not to oppose this Bill outright, because we acknowledge that the war against drug crime cannot just simply be consigned to limbo after a period of some months, but rather to urge the Government to make this legislation temporary only and subject to reconsideration by this Parliament at the first opportunity. Accordingly, I foreshadow an amendment at the Committee stage to require reconsideration of this legislation no later than 28 February 1980- a sunset provision, if you like, but one that will require this legislation to be re-enacted by this Parliament if it is to stay on foot. 
The police and the Government accordingly have three months to get their houses in order. If they cannot do so to the satisfaction of this Parliament and the public by next February, they must not have these sweeping powers. They are too wide, too savage, too destructive to be left in the hands of any organisation except one whose competence and integrity is absolutely and unequivocally beyond doubt. 
There is one remaining matter which is a major area of concern to the Opposition. There are some other lesser matters which we can pursue in the Committee stage. The remaining major matter relates to the opportunity that this legislation affords for the Australian Federal Police- indeed, other agencies, including the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation- to acquire new powers by stealth. I refer to the provisions in these Bills enabling the communication of information obtained by narcotics investigations, through the use of telephone taps, listening devices and so on, to other members of the Australian Federal Police, to State and Territory police forces and, in the context of security matters that may emerge from such investigations, to ASIO. 
These powers to communicate information, derived from investigations of a notionally quite different kind, were alarming enough when they were vested in the Narcotics Bureau; but in many ways they are even more alarming when they are found vested, as they are by this legislation, in the Australian Federal Police, given the much wider range of ordinary law enforcement functions which are vested in that agency and the consequently greater temptation to use the narcotics powers for the obtaining of evidence and information in relation to other classes of offences. The Opposition acknowledges that if genuine windfall information, if I can describe it that way, is obtained with respect to the commission of other serious offences or even serious matters of national security and if that information is obtained in the course of genuine narcotics inquiries, it does offend common sense for that information not to be capable of being used in respect of those other offences. Nonetheless, we are concerned at a possible insufficiency of safeguards governing such communications. 
The Government, it is true and I readily acknowledge, has referred to and provided for three such safeguards. In the first place, so far as information as to other offences is concerned, the Govenment in these Bills has set a threshold requirement as to the seriousness of such offences. They must be ones which are punishable by three years imprisonment or more. Again there is a new requirement which the Opposition welcomes that any information which is obtained by the use of listening devices and so on in the course of narcotics inquiries and which is communicated to other officers of the Australian Federal Police, of State police forces or of ASIO must be the subject of a written report from the police to the Minister. That is an innovation. It was also provided in a recent ministerial directive on 23 October, the status of which remains a little equivocal when one compares it with the formal powers in the text of the legislation, that personal information so described should not be communicated at all. 
As I said, the Opposition welcomes all three of these safeguards and acknowledges that they may in fact prove sufficient to allay the kinds of fears that I have expressed. But the Opposition, I submit, can be forgiven a degree of scepticism. I think we can be forgiven a degree of concern about the looseness with which security matters are described and, accordingly, about the wide diversity of information derived in the course of narcotics inquiries which might legitimately be communicated to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Again I think we can be forgiven a degree of scepticism and caution about the likely utility of the requirement of a report to the Minister. Ministerial responsibility of this kind is all very well on paper, but we have found some difficulties with the practical application of that concept in recent weeks. I suggest that there are likely to be particular difficulties unless there is in office a particular Minister who is somewhat more capable, more alert and more sensitive to the issues than the present Minister,  Mr McLeay,  has proved to be, if the evidence of his contributions to debate in the other place is any guide. 
The Opposition acknowledges that the way in which these powers to communicate information are exercised depends ultimately on the internal control that will be exercised within the Police Force and on how the disciplinary provisions which operate within the Police Force are applied; in other words, how straight the Police Force plays it. It may be that with the new leadership of that force there are grounds for confidence that the Australian Federal Police will play it straight in these matters in the future, but- and this is the central theme of the Opposition's reaction to this Bill- we believe we are not entitled to have that confidence in the Australian Federal Police at the moment. Accordingly, again we believe that this adds further weight and force to our desire that this legislation not assume a permanent or an entrenched place on the statute book as legislation normally does- although, of course, it is capable of amendment at a later stage- but that it be given a specific short lifetime and be subject to further consideration by this Parliament next February so that the progress that the Police Force is making is able to be re-evaluated. For all those reasons the Opposition has a grave concern and grave reservations about this legislation. We will not formally oppose the second reading of the Bill, but at the Committee stage we will press, along with a number of less significant amendments, the particular amendment which provides for a sunset clause to enable that reconsideration by this Parliament to which I have referred. 
I move: 
Page 2, after clause 5, insert the following new clause:  5a. Section 2 1 9f of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting after sub-section (I) the following sub-section: (1a) In sub-section (I), "person" includes a court.'; and 
by inserting after sub-section (3) the following new sub-sections: (3a) Where, in proceedings in a court in respect of an offence, objection is taken to the admission of evidence on the ground that the evidence was obtained in contravention of, or in consequence of a contravention of, or in consequence of a failure to comply with, a provision of this Act, in relation to a person, the court shall not admit the evidence unless it is, on the balance of probabilities, satisfied that admission of the evidence would specifically and substantially benefit the public interest without unduly prejudicing the rights and freedoms of any person. (3b) The matters that a court may have regard to in deciding whether, in proceedings in respect of an offence, it is satisfied as required by sub-section (3a), include- 
a ) the seriousness of the offence in the course of the investigation of which the provision was contravened, or was not complied with, the urgency and difficulty of detecting the offender and the urgency of the need to preserve evidence of the fact; 
the nature and seriousness of the contravention or failure; and 
the extent to which the evidence that was obtained in contravention, in consequence of the contravention of, or in consequence of the failure to comply with, the provision might have been lawfully obtained. (3c) The burden of satisfying the court that evidence obtained in contravention of, in consequence of the contravention of, or in consequence of the failure to comply with, a provision of this Act should be admitted in proceedings lies on the party who seeks to have the evidence admitted. (3d) This section is in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other law or rule under which a court may refuse to admit evidence in proceedings. '. ". 
This amendment proposes the insertion of a new clause 5A after clause 5. The effect of it would be to amend section 2 1 9f of the principal Act in certain respects, as set out in the text of the amendment. The first part of the amendment enables the use of the word 'person' to extend to and include the concept of a court. The reality is that as a result of the law articulated in Padman 's case, there is no basic restriction as the law now stands on the ability of witnesses in court cases to communicate information obtained in the course of narcotics inquiries to that court for the purposes of adducing evidence of some other offence, not being a narcotics offence. That follows from the way in which the word 'person', as it appears in the present text of the legislation, has been construed by the judiciary as not extending to and including courts. Essentially this is a technical amendment. I cannot imagine that the thrust of it, in principle or in policy, would be opposed by the Government. I think that the Government would welcome the opportunity to advance further the spirit of this legislation which is to confine the use of listening devices to narcotics type offences and not to enable such information obtained in that way to be communicated at large for the purposes of establishing other kinds of offences. 
The second part of the amendment relates to the status of illegally obtained evidence under these new powers. At the moment the general law is that the mere fact that evidence is obtained illegally will not necessarily lead to its exclusion. It is a matter for the court to determine whether in all the circumstances consideration and fairness demand that it be left in or rather that it be kept out. The Opposition proposes an amendment which will create a reverse onus discretionary exclusion rule of the kind that was recommended by the Australian Law Reform 
Commission in its 1975 report on criminal investigation, which proposal has not only been the subject of a good deal of debate in other contexts in this chamber but also was picked up by the Government and incorporated into the criminal investigation Bill which it introduced in 1977. Again, I cannot imagine why the Government would have any objection in policy or principle to this amendment. I hope, accordingly, that it will be accepted. 
I move: 
Page 3, after clause 14, insert the following new clause: 
IS. This Act, and any reguations made under this Act, shall cease to have effect and shall be deemed to have been repealed on 28 February 1 980. '. 
The third and last of the Opposition's amendments to the Customs Amendment Bill (No. 4) proposes to insert what is in fact, the sunset clause to which I referred in my speech at the second reading stage of the Bill. I make it clear that the Opposition does not generally embrace the principle of sunset clauses with anything like the general enthusiasm that they seem to attract some Government members. Nonetheless, we think that it is an appropriate mechanism to employ in particular circumstances when those circumstances warrant it. I do not think there is any cause for the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to have advanced the kind of scepticism and general distaste for this proposal that he did in his reply to the second reading debate. The reality is that the Opposition is not being in any way irresponsible by moving this amendment. We do not propose that there would be any kind of legislative vacuum with no agency being able to exercise these new powers. In effect it is a kind of tropical sunset clause, I suppose, in that not much time is involved. We think it appropriate in all the circumstances for this legislation to be reconsidered at the first possible opportunity. 
This Parliament reconvenes on 19 February. Ample time exists in the period between then and 28 February for the Government to bring forward enabling legislation to keep these powers on foot. The bringing foward of such legislation would, in fact, enable this Parliament and the Australian people to make a reevaluation of the performance of the Australian Federal Police three months hence in order to reach conclusions to our own satisfaction, and not just to the satisfaction of the AttorneyGeneral, that the Australian Federal Police is, in fact, an organisation of quality, competence and integrity-conclusions which it is just not possible to draw on the state of the evidence at the moment. 
I move: 
Page 1 1 , after clause 1 6, insert the following new clause:  16a.  (  1 ) If a member of the Commission has given a certificate in writing in relation to an act or practice stating that- 
an inquiry under this Act has been held into the act or practice: 
the Commission has reported to the Minister that the act or practice is inconsistent with or contrary to a human right: and 
at the date of the certificate the matter that gave rise to the inquiry has not been settled, any person or persons aggrieved by the act or practice may institute a proceeding in relation to the act or practice by way of civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction for any one or more of the remedies specified in sub-section (2). 
Where in a proceeding instituted under sub-section ( 1 ) it is established to the reasonable satisfaction of the court that a person (in this sub-section referred to as the defendant') has done an act (in this sub-section referred to as the 'relevant act') or engaged in a practice (in this sub-section referred to as the 'relevant practice') that is inconsistent with or contrary to a human right, the court may grant all or any of the following remedies: 
an injunction restraining the defendant from repeating the relevant act or continuing to engage in the relevant practice, from doing an act or engaging in a practice of a similar kind or from causing or permitting others to do acts or engage in practices of the same or a similar kind; 
b ) an order directing the defendant to do a specified act, being an act directed to- 
placing a person aggrieved by the act or practice who is a party to the proceeding as nearly as practicable in the position in which he would be if the relevant act had not been done or the relevant practice had not been engaged in; or 
otherwise avoiding a detriment to such a person resulting from the relevant act or the relevant practice; 
if the relevant act or the relevant practice resulted in the making of a contract or was done or engaged in pursuant to a contract- an order cancelling the contract, varying any of the terms of the contract or requiring the payment, in whole or in part, of an amount paid pursuant to the contract; 
) damages against the defendant in respect of- 
loss suffered by a person aggrieved by the act or practice who is a party to the proceeding, including loss of any benefit that the person might reasonably have been expected to obtain if the relevant act had not been done or the relevant practice had not been engaged in; and 
loss of dignity by, humiliation to, or injury to the feelings of, such a person; and 
such other relief as the court thinks just.'. 
This amendment is an attempt to give this ineffectual, tame pussy cat Bill some teeth, to create a situation in which, if the Commission does investigate an act or practice and finds, that it does offend human rights, it can give a certification which will enable an aggrieved individual to take the matter to court and obtain some appropriate remedy- an enforcement procedure which is entirely lacking in the Bill as it now stands. It is also an enforcement procedure which is entirely in accordance with the existing provisions of the Racial Discrimination Act which this Government has not been minded to oppose or to seek to amend. This enforcement procedure would have been even more effective had an earlier amendment proposed by the Opposition been accepted. It would have extended the range of operation of this enforcement mechanism not only to the Commonwealth but also to the States. Regrettably, that amendment was negatived. So the enforcement clause that I have just moved is confined in its effect only to the Commonwealth jurisdiction. Nonetheless, it is worth having. The Opposition regards it as a matter of regret that Senators Missen, Puplick and Bonner- the joint signatories of the statement which has been referred to this evening- have, apparently against their better instincts, decided not to support it. Perhaps it is another illustration of  Senator Missen  and his colleagues standing up for something but not quite long enough to be counted. Nonetheless, the Opposition regards it as an amendment which is worth pursuing to a vote, even in the absence of that regrettably missing support from  Senator Missen. 
I make only one further comment and that is that it might not be as effective as one would like, even within its own terms, to the extent that the Opposition would regard it desirable not only that an aggrieved individual or group be able to litigate but also that the Human Rights Commission have the power to initiate litigation on behalf of someone so aggrieved, as was a provision in the Human Rights Bill 1973 and as has been recommended by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs in respect of the enforcement of freedom of information matters by the Ombudsman. Rather than engage in any kind of drastic surgery which the Government is unlikely to accept, given its track record in these matters, I simply ask the Government to accept the amendment in these terms because these are terms which are exactly paralleled in the Racial Discrimination Act, an Act which the Government supported when in Opposition in 1975, which it has done nothing to amend subsequently and which it ought to be able to accept as a matter of policy and principle. 
Whilst not wishing to take any of the lustre off  Senator Lewis's  triumph which he has just announced to us, I confirm that the Opposition does not oppose this amendment. But it is not quite as enthusiastic about it as  Senator Lewis  indicates. As I sought to indicate on an earlier Bill this afternoon, the Opposition generally views sunset clauses with somewhat mixed feelings. If they are introduced with the object of providing an opportunity to reevaluate or justify the existence of an agency in particular circumstances we regard them as desirable. But if they are introduced as a stick with which to beat the small government drum so as to provide the maximum opportunity for the destruction of agencies just because they are in the public sector, then obviously we in the Opposition are rather more cautious about the concept. If we believed that the Human Rights Commission was an unequivocally worthwhile institution we would be a little cautious about creating the opportunity for its demise. But since the Human Rights Commission that is now established by this Bill as it has proceeded to this stage, is such a half-hearted inconsequential, feeble, damp squib of an institution we regard that prospect as somewhat less alarming. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1 979: 
1 ) Has the Government considered reducing the level of excise payable on low alcohol beers to provide an impetus to consumption of low alcohol beer in preference to the standard product; if not, what action is proposed to this effect. 
What objections, if no action is proposed, does the Government have to such action, which would both improve community health and reduce the road toll. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 24 October 1 979: 
1 ) How many sheltered workshops are there in Australia at present (24 October, 1979). 
Are any more workshops being, or about to be, constructed. 
) How many disabled people have they employed. 
What has been: (a) the average income of the handicapped employees, and (b) the total value of the production of the workshops. 
Is it the case that in the year 1973-74 the workshops produced nearly$15m in goods, while the employees were paid less than $3.5m; if so, what has been done with the remaining income. 
What consideration has the Minister given to allowing the handicapped to earn additional income without forfeiting their pension entitlements, noting that in the United States, pensioners may earn up to $3,000 per annum without effect on their pension. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1 979: 
1 ) How many Writs of Assistance issued under s. 1 98 of the Customs Act 1 90 1 were in force, at 30 August 1979. 
How long has each such writ been in force, and to an officer of what rank has each been issued (please supply table). 
Does each such writ, once issued, remain in force for the duration of the person 's career as a Customs officer. 
How many Customs Warrants have been issued under s. 199 of the Act in each year from 1974 to 1979, and how many were in force at 30 August 1979. 
Who has issued each such warrant, for how long a period has each been granted, and to officers of what rank. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 30 August 1 979: 
1 ) Was  Mr Thomson  of the Australian Legal Aid Office (ALAO) correct in stating, during a hearing of Senate Estimates Committee B, that there are no written instructions which in any way qualify the guidelines of 30 October 1978 regarding the granting of legal aid. (See  Hansard,  Estimates Committee B, 7 May 1979, page 273.) 
Did an Australian Legal Aid officer inform the Fitzroy Legal Service by telephone that dissolution of married proceedings would only be considered imperative, and therefore receive legal aid, in circumstances where: (a) the applicant seeking ALAO aid for dissolution proceedings is living in a defacto relationship, there are children of that relationship and the applicant wants a divorce in order to marry his or her defacto; (b) the applicant, and only the applicant, is suffering from a terminal disease and wishes to order his or her affairs before death; (c) the applicant and his or her spouse dispute some aspect of the settlement of property between them and, because these matters can only be determined by the Family Court after dissolution proceedings have been undertaken, the applicant can be aided in the divorce proceedings, and after the property proceedings- in other words, aid in divorce is granted in order to speed up the hearing of the property dispute; or (d) there is evidence of extremely detrimental behaviour, which divorce may alleviate, on the part of the applicant's spouse, for example, where the applicants spouse has ignored an existing restraining order because of the continuance of the marriage relationship. 
If the answers to parts ( I ) and (2) above are yes, what status do the criteria referred to in (2) in fact have. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 21 September 1979: 
1 ) Why did Australia not agree to the United States' proposal to refer to arbitration the Dillingham Corporation's claim to compensation from the Australian Government (see answer to Senate Question No. 1625,  Hansard,  8 June 1979, page 30 16). 
Why has Australia waived the objection it would be entitled to make to the exercise of jurisdiction by the International Court of Justice in this matter. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1 979: 
1 ) What instruments of delegation pursuant to s. 1 7 ( I ) and s. 17 (2) of the Law Officers ct 1964 are currently in force. 
What instruments of delegation have been terminated pursuant to s. 17 (5) of the Law Officers Act 1964, in each year since 1964. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 25 October 1979: 
To what extent does the Prices Justification Tribunal, in its price surveillance' role, acquire company information from the Industries Assistance Commission and the Taxation Office, to ensure that bureaucratic and corporate time and effort is not duplicated, and that any data supplied to the Prices Justification Tribunal by the companies is identical to that supplied to other parts of the bureaucracy. 
