I understand that certain traditions and precedents are associated with maiden speeches. I am afraid that I have scant respect for outmoded traditions and rather antiquated precedents- precedents and traditions which are not well designed for the tempo of life in late twentieth century Australia. Indeed if I might say, without being impertinent, having been in the House for only four days but having studied its proceedings for a lifetime, it seems only too apparent to me that the traditions and customs of this House require a drastic overhaul if we are to serve the nation that we represent and the democracy that we profess. Therefore, on the customary aspects of a maiden speech, I will be brief. 
To you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I offer my congratulations on your election and to the  Speaker  my congratulations on his re-election to offices which are vital to the good functioning of this House. Of my predecessor in Bonython,  Mr Martin  Nicholls, who served this House, his Party and the electors for 14 years, I am glad to say that he is much recovered from the illness that brought his parliamentary career to a premature close. As for my electorate of Bonython, I have a single social statistic to put before the House. There are at present 4,387 people in Bonython receiving unemployment benefit. Discussions with welfare officers and unemployment officers suggest that the actual number of unemployed in the electorate totals at least 5,000. Thus one out of ten of the potential work force in Bonython is unemployed. My chief task for my electorate in the immediate future is to compel this Government to adopt a more humane, a more compassionate and a more generous response to the needs of the unemployed, the chief victims of the Government's economic policies. 
I wish tonight to examine a single sentence from the Governor-General's Speech. It is perhaps the most complacent sentence in a complacent and vacuous speech. He said: 
The Thirty-First Parliament assembles following general elections in which Australians have returned my Government with a majority surpassed only once before. 
I wish to examine the moral authority of that massive majority. The election of 1 977 needs to be placed in the context of contemporary Australian politics. Since 1972 this country has had four national elections- a series of unnecessary and premature elections unparalleled in Australia's history. Never before have the Australian people been compelled so frequently to the polls. The conservative journal, the Economist, stated in a now famous article: 
Australians have been rotted by too much politics. 
I repeat the words: 'rotted by too much polities'. Of course, being a conservative journal, the Economist failed to ask who had done the rotting. Each of those premature elections was the result of the greed of the conservative parties in this country to regain or to retain office. In 1974 they threatened to breach constitutional convention in their grab for power. In 1975, by a gross perversion of the practice and custom of the Constitution, they compelled a double dissolution. In the premature dissolution of 1977 opportunism was their only guide. The  Australian Financial Review  of 4 October 1977 made this comment: 
The reason  Mr Fraser  wants an election is that he feels he can get himself another three years by going now. He has absolutely nothing else- no long term economic strategy, no major issues on which he is seeking a genuine mandate. 
A week later the same newspaper described the opportunism of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in these terms:  . . . an attempt to grab any issue to force an election before unemployment really  starts  to bite in the school leaver onslaught of next year. 
Not one of those unnecessary elections was in the national interest; not one of those premature elections was in the economic interests of this country. Indeed, as economists now point out, each of them imperilled the economic recovery of this country. That series of conservative actions has rotted the political institutions of this country and damaged the social fabric of the nation. Never before in the history of this country have the needs of the nation been so prostituted to the greed of party. 
In the speech he delivered in this debate on Wednesday, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  waxed eloquent on Labor's campaign pledge on payroll tax. Such a pledge may well have been mistaken and may well have .been unwise, but at least it was honest. By contrast, honesty was at a discount in the Liberal campaign of 1 977. To retain power in 1 977 the conservative coalition debauched the economicdebate by a combination of the politics of deceit and the crudest appeals to human greed. 
The politics of deceit were all pervasive from the start. The Finance Editor of the Melbourne  Age  had this to say about the Liberal policy speech: 
The unfortunate opening paragraphs of this election policy were the worst collection of half truths and distortions I can remember in a Prime Minister 's policy speech. 
Then there were the bubble balloons which day after day proclaimed that the Liberals had reduced inflation from 19 per cent to nine per cent. I am perfectly prepared to grant the Government a moderate achievement as regards inflation, although clearly the Government both exaggerates its achievement and minimises the cost of that achievement. But modest achievement is not for the present regime. No responsible economist in this country could be found to support the fantasy figure of 19 per cent as being in any way a valid comparative figure; nor any intelligent layman that such a gross distortion contributed anything to the needed and rational economic debate. And what today of the election pledge that the Government had no information which would justify an increase in health insurance contributions? The people may choose between incompetence and deceit. I suspect a bit of both. 
It is clear that the politics of deceit were endorsed from on high. Debate now rages in this country in general and in the Press in particular as to- let me put this as delicately as possiblethe Prime Minister's tortured and tortuous approach to the truth. I am not one of those who believe that the Prime Minister is given to the deliberate telling of untruths: Rather, I believe that the Prime Minister of this country has raised to a high art form the ability to mislead his peers and the people and to misinform the nation while remaining, in the technical sense, correct. Examples of this technique are well known. The present Speaker of the House was in fact the first victim. In January 1975 the present Prime Minister said: 
Bill Snedden has my full support ... I repeat ... I support the elected leader of the Liberal Party. 
The Labor Government was the next victim. In March 1975 he said: 
I generally believe that if a government is elected to power in the lower House and has the numbers and can maintain the numbers in the lower House, it is entitled to expect that it will govern for the three year term unless quite extraordinary events intervene. 
The 1977 election campaign provides many examples of this prime ministerial technique. Most typical is his statement on unemployment when he said: 
Unemployment will fall from February and keep on falling and falling. 
Because of the seasonal patterns of unemployment, that statement may well be, with some luck, correct in a rather arid, technical arithmetical sense. But in terms of economic sense- that is, in terms of seasonal adjustment, and in terms of a month by month comparison with previous years- unemployment will get tragically worse in the months ahead. 
Australians would be well advised to treat each statement by this Prime Minister as they would treat the contract of a dubious second hand car dealer. It is not the big promises of the opening paragraphs that they should note but the qualifying detail of the fine print. 
To this deceit in the election campaign were added the crudest appeals to human greed. Nineteenth century philosophers feared that democracy would bring with it the politics of greed, that is, the buying of votes by the crudest and most vulgar promises of individual material reward. Their fears were fully realised in Australia in November and December of 1977. 1 quote from a Liberal Party advertisement, which states: 
Liberal Income Tax Cuts.  Mr Fraser's  tax reforms mean that 225,000 Australians who pay tax now will pay none after February. Are you one of them? Dial Adelaide 1 1 562. Dial any time and a recorded message will let you know. 
Paraphrased, this message was: Telephone Telecom and find out how many extra bucks you will get if the Liberals get back on Saturday. Nothing so trivialised the economic debate in this country, nothing so debased the political morality of this society and nothing was so counter-productive to the real economic problems of this nation than this contemptible pandering to individual selfishness and individual greed. 
Having by these means won their great victory, the man and the parties most responsible for the polarisation of this country now present themselves as the advocates of national unity, the creators of consensus, the new depolarisers. In the Prime Minister's victory statement, in his Australia Day declaration and in the GovernorGeneral's Speech, we find this commitment: . . . to bring out the things we agree on, not allow ourselves to be distracted by partisan interest, by sectional demand. 
I agree with the Prime Minister in that commitment. But his past makes him a most unlikely begetter of the new consensus and, for the present, there is a vast chasm between his rhetoric and his deeds. 
What might we expect of a Prime Minister who is committed to the pursuit of the 'things we agree on' after the bitter years of the mid-1970s? Perhaps a magnanimous gesture to his great but defeated rival, the former Prime Minister. Perhaps a generous response to the unemployed who have borne the burdens of his economic policy. Perhaps a revision of the basic pension guidelines which have remained unchanged since the Labor Party was in power. But we get none of these. Instead, what do we get as one of the first executive acts of this new age of unity? We get the extraordinary ambassadorial appointment of the most divisive figure in this society; the most affluent of Australian pensioners; the most eager job seeker in the ranks of the unemployed. Nothing comparable has been seen since the Emperor Caligula appointed his horse a Roman Consul. Nothing could be better designed to divide and embitter this nation. So much for the pursuit of unity! 
We will not solve the mounting problems of this society by the politics of deceit and greed that are now garbed in this latest hypocrisy. The Government will only increase the tensions in this society by the present punitive level of aid to the unemployed. The Government will only cure the conscience of its own supporters by the creation of a dole bludger syndrome, given the grave international and structural weaknesses of this economy. The Government will salvage little but its own numerical predictions by sending out teams of inspectors to hunt down unemployment malingerers. Such resources would be much better placed in those Department of Social Security offices in regions of high unemployment where the social security system is close to breaking down. In Bonython and elsewhere, unemployment benefit payments have been running a week to two weeks behind. Only a minimal amount of sympathy and imagination is required to translate those delays into terms of individual hardship and distress. Not that this is the fault of the officers of the Department of Social Security, who do a herculean task under most difficult conditions. In Bonython, unemployment has increased by 300 per cent since 1974, but the staff of the local Department of Social Security office has increased by only 33 per cent in the same period. 
Nearly 40 per cent of the unemployed are young people. The Government is in danger of creating a generation denied of work experiences and the skills and confidence that come with employment. The Government can win an election by offering a quick buck to the employed and forgetting the unemployed, but it does so at enormous individual and, ultimately, social cost. If the Government creates a lost generation of the unemployed and unemployable, that generation will ultimately ravage our social system. 
Throughout this debate we have heard a plaintive refrain from Government back benchers proclaiming that they, too, love the unemployed; that they, too, are concerned for the unemployed. If so, let them match their words with deeds. Let them join with the Opposition in encouraging a more compassionate response from their hard-faced masters on the Government front bench. Let me suggest a five-point plan that they might pursue with us to match their words with action. 
Firstly, let them persuade their Ministers to drop their favourite stereotype of the unemployed as dole bludgers, morally blameworthy for their own unemployment, and present them instead as they really are- the victims of an erratic economic system; victims bearing for all of us the burdens of a stagnant economy secondly, let them persuade their Ministers to minimise the bureaucratic hassles which entrap the unemployed and which turn the unemployed, who are perhaps not the best organised elements in our society, into the chief form fillers in our society, form fillers who are harshly penalised if their form filling is inadequate or late. Thirdly, let them urge their Ministers to support us in our call for putting more resources into social security so that the dreary queues may be shortened, the delays in payment removed and the unemployed served as Australian citizens should be served. Fourthly, let them persuade their Ministers to transform the work test and the appeals system, which are sources of much unnecessary hardship. In recent years, some 60 per cent of the appeals against benefit cuts have been finally upheld, but not until much hardship has been caused to the appellants. Fifthly and finally, let them convince their Ministers to provide the unemployed with benefits above, not below, the poverty line. 
The Government may have its majority but it is a majority morally flawed by the methods of its attainment. Moreover those methods have fostered and played upon attitudes of individual greed which offer no solution to the economic and social problems which face this country. Herein lie the seeds of this majority's destruction. 
Today over most of northern Europe democratic socialism is the dominant and governing political force. In most of Mediterranean Europe more radical versions of socialism are poised on the edge of power. The triumph of socialism in Europe reflects the growing conviction that a humane and democratic socialism offers the only way forward from the economic and cultural malaise that now grips the capitalist world. 
We on this side of the House share those values that must underwrite a revised economic order in this country. Industrial enterprise should be geared not to the private profits of the few but to the economic needs of the many. The resources of this nation should be treated as the heritage of all Australians, not simply the source of wealth for a few, and too many of that few from overseas. Nor should the environmental needs of future generations of Australians be squandered for quick returns now. Those principles are at the heart of a socialist ethic which places communal needs above individual greed. Only through a party committed to an economic interventionism in the interests of all and which is sceptical of the shibboleths of so-called free enterprise will Australians secure the restructuring of the economy which is the prerequisite for economic advance. For all of those reasons I am confident that this Government is doomed. I can only hope that its going down will prove less destructive of the political order and less damaging to the social fabric of this country than was its coming to power. Today belongs to the Government; tomorrow belongs to us. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. I refer him to a statement which he made on 12 February that the deficit will overshoot the budgeted $2, 200m mark 'by several hundred million dollars'. Is it a fact that additional expenditures for the National Employment and Training scheme, unemployment benefit, homes savings grants and special assistance for the beef industry will add in excess of $300m to budgeted expenditure? Further, are there not shortfalls in revenue for items such as sales tax and customs duties and additional refund payments which will produce a shortfall in revenue of about $50Um? Does the Treasurer agree that, based on this information, the deficit will balloon by $700m or $800m, which would be $200m to $300m above last year's result, and that this would place the Government's strategy of reducing the deficit in a state of disarray? 
-We have listened this week to numerous justifications by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  of the behaviour of  Sir John  Kerr in November 1975- we had a few more assertions in the speech just concluded- as though such justifications were relevant to the recently aborted ambassadorial appointment. Nevertheless, I think it is necessary to reject these justifications in order that they do not become accepted truths. I quote the words of the Prime Minister because I have a certain respect for facts: 
There was no option but for the Governor-General to act in the way in which he did ...  Sir John  Kerr was forced to act. He acted honourably . . . 
I quote the  Deputy  Prime Minister who just gives us a string of words: . . . what  Sir John  Kerr did in 1975 . . . was right, proper, correct, legal, constitutional, necessary and inescapable. 
Government supporters- Hear, hear! 
I am sure that Government supporters would agree because I suggest that such statements are profoundly simplistic and could only be uttered by men profoundly unaware of the debate that has taken place in this country in the past two years, profoundly unaware of everything that every serious commentator has said. The evidence that we now have suggests that, whilst  Sir John  Kerr, was acting legally, what he did was not right, proper, correct, constitutional, necessary, inescapable or even honourable. Firstly, we can all agree that  Sir John's  dismissal of the former Prime Minister was, to say the least, unusual. Even Liberal Party supporters might agree with that proposition. For instance, no British monarch has dismissed a Prime Minister since 1 834. The dismissal was not only unusual but also unique. Professor Geoffrey Sawer- given the illiteracy of Liberal Party supporters, they may not want me to quote a professorwho is regarded as one of the greatest experts on constitutional matters in this country, said: 
The peculiarity of the Kerr-Whitlam case was that it was the first in any Westminister style system in which a Chief Minister with a clear majority in the popular House had been dismissed from office solely on account of his failure to obtain Supply in the upper House. 
This use of great powers was unusual and unique. If such an extraordinary and controversial breach of custom and tradition were to be justified in any way or, in the words of the Prime Minister, was to be proper, the vice-regal powers should have been used, firstly, in a bi-partisan fashion and, secondly only as a measure of last resort.  Sir John  Kerr in fact used the powers of his great office in such a manner that he earned the plaudits of the Liberal supporters and the hostility of Labor supporters. They were used in a manner which inevitably branded the office of Governor-General as partisan. Honourable members opposite do not have to take my word for this. Let us hear what some of the commentators had to say. Lloyd and Clark had this to say: 
Kerr was guilty of gross unfairness. 
Kelly said: 
The Governor-General 's overall conduct put himself in a position where the accusation of political partisanship could be levelled against the Crown. 
Butler, who is perhaps the most respected British commentator on Australian politics, described his action as 'profoundly partisan'. It was scarcely right, scarcely proper, scarcely correct behaviour in the monarch's representative. The charges of partisanship are clearly related to the issue of timing, for time was of the essence in his decision. There was no necessity to make it; there was nothing inescapable about the GovernorGeneral acting as he did on 1 1 November. There was no immediate shortage of Supply. Supply would have lasted for another 10 days to a fortnight. As we all know, Supply was never dependent on the outcome of a House of Representatives election but merely on the granting of that election. Thus  Sir John  Kerr had at least another 10 days, possibly a fortnight, to allow a political resolution or to seek a bi-partisan solution. 
I will deal with that in a moment. 
Unlike most honourable members opposite who have commented on this matter, I have endeavoured to provide evidence to support the assertions that I have been making. As I was saying,  Sir John  Kerr had 10 days, possibly a fortnight, to allow a political resolution or to seek a bi-partisan solution. If he had been forced to act, he would have been much more justified in doing so a fortnight later. 

 Mr Cohen- I raise a point of order,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  For the last few nights this House has been subjected to this big yobbo from Bendigo interjecting continually on speakers from this side of the House and you have failed completely to protect the interests of honourable members on this side of the House. 

 Mr Cohen- I rise to a point of order,,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  For how long will the honourable member for Bendigo be allowed to go on with his interjecting and wasting the time of honourable members on this side of the House. 
I think that if a person without knowledge of contemporary social conditions in this country were to read the rather bland and complacent words of the Governor-General's Speech he or she would have no sense that this country is gripped at the moment by the most severe recession since the Second World War. Towards the end of last year the Australian and New Zealand Bank commented that the Australian economy was bumbling along at the bottom of the economic trough. There is no hard evidence that we have yet left the bottom of the economic trough. It is for that reason that five of the six items in the Opposition's amendment relate to the discouragingly complacent approach of the Government to the economic problems of this country. I do not deny that there are some optimistic signs around. One notes some advances on the investment side. There are some signs of increased consumer expectations. 
But if one takes most of the major objective indices and not some of the rather fanciful indicators which were introduced by Government supporters last week, it is clear that this economy remains in deep recession. In the last six months some 25 of the 32 items which are used in the production statistics of the Treasury to measure productivity in this country have been stagnant or in decline. Let us take car registrations which are regarded as another sign of the productivity of the economy. In January 1978- these are the latest figures available- car registrations were 7.2 per cent down on January 1977. Let us take another major measure, private dwelling approvals. Again for the three months ended January 1978- these are the latest figures available- dwelling approvals were down 16.7 per cent on the same period for the previous year. Over the last month the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has confessed that the deficit is ballooning beyond Budget predictions. It appears now that the growth of the money supply is well below Budget expectations. These developments will clearly contradict the Government's lower interest rate ambitions. 
Above all there is the problem of unemployment. According to the latest figures 445,000 Australians are unemployed, and there is much evidence to suggest that these figures understate the actual levels of unemployment. This is the highest level of unemployment since the Second World War and is the single most serious social malaise in this society. Yet in the 1 1 pages of the Governor-General's Speech unemployment is given three sentences. In 6,000 words it is given some five references. We have been accused of playing politics with the unemployed. I believe that any government which presents a document such as this in the face of these statistics is playing politics with the unemployed by failing to focus on the major social problem of this society today. 
Nor is there anything in the GovernorGeneral's Speech of direct or immediate benefit to the unemployed. I refer to the three brief references. The first is: 
My Government rejects the notion that there can be a trade-off between inflation and unemployment. It will continue to give the highest priority to reducing inflation, for only in this way can there be a sustained reduction in unemployment. 
I do not want tonight to debate the correctness or otherwise of that thesis. What is clear is that even if the Government's most optimistic predictions are correct, if every part of that notion makes economic sense, there is no likelihood that we will have much below 400,000 unemployed this year. If we look at the peaks and troughs of the last three or four years the most that has been managed is a fall of 60,000 to 70,000 from the peak. We are not, even on the most optimisticpredictions, going to get much below the 400,000 mark this year; that is, even if the long-term strategy is correct we have an immediate problem of unemployment being around 400,000 for the rest of this year. 
The second reference reads: 
My Government will continue to place a high priority on employment and training schemes, particularly those which increase young people 's skills, and enable them to take job opportunities as they arise. 
Again, we welcome these proposals but those members opposite who are honest about these schemes recognise that they are primarily band aids to the basic problem. They provide some relief, and we welcome them. Nevertheless, they make only a marginal inroad into the problem of the actual unemployed in this society. The third reference reads: 
As a priority, the Commonwealth Employment Service will be made a more effective manpower organisation, better able to help the unemployed. 
This is a proposal we can all support, but it will not do much to solve the problem of the unemployed in 1978. 
We are told, however, that the Government is doing something practical. In reading the Australian  Financial Review  of today I discovered that the Treasurer in a speech at the weekend attacking some of the charges Labor people have made, said: 
This charge ignores the practical concern demonstrated by the Government towards the difficulties of those out of work - 
That is the phrase I want to take up-   the practical concern demonstrated by the Government towards the difficulties of those out of work. 
Where is the evidence of the practical concern? How does the Government demonstrate its practical concern towards the difficulties of those out of work? On all the evidence of the operation of the social security network in this country the Government has demonstrated its practical concern by a rigid and unthinking adherence to an unemployment benefit system the concept and basic intent of which has been unaltered since 1947, a system condemned or severely criticised by nearly every major governmental report bearing on the system in recent years. 
I take first the Henderson report on poverty which in 1975 condemned the level of unemployment benefits as inadequate and urged immediate action. It argued for the disentanglement of the CES from the payment of unemployment benefits. It argued for modifications of the work test to make it less severe. It urged the abolition of the seven-day waiting period for benefits. It argued for streamlining the administrative processes for the payment of unemployment benefits. But, there has been no significant change in any of those areas. For instance, today the gap between the poverty level and the unemployment benefit is greater than when the Henderson Committee reported; that is, unemployment benefits are now generally further below the poverty level than they were in 1975. There has yet been no disentanglement of the CES from the actual payment and provision of unemployment benefits. The work test, if anything, has been made more severe. The sevenday waiting period remains and, indeed, by changes at the end of last year has become longer. Little has been done to streamline the administrative processes. 
The Myers report of July 1977 echoed most of the findings of the Henderson report about the administration of unemployment benefits. Again it argued for the separation of the CES from unemployment benefit involvement. It argued for the modification of the work test. The report said that administrative processes should be streamlined. It argued for the abolition of the seven-day waiting period. It is true that at the rate this Government works a report presented in July 1 977 might not yet have been acted on, and as yet we have no action on the Myers Report. That is not quite true. We had one action which I think is typical. The Myers report argued that the abolition of the seven-day period should be coupled with the process of payment in arrears; that is, it argued for removal of the seven-day waiting period but for payment in arrears. Of course this Government left the waiting period but also introduced payment in arrears. This has meant that most of the unemployed in this society get one payment of one week's unemployment benefit in the first five weeks of unemployment. 
Of course it is not surprising that some of the non-government reports are even harsher on the administration of unemployment relief in this society. I quote from a report that is worth reading by all honourable members, a report of the Brotherhood of St Laurence titled  Rough Justice,  which describes the system. It states: 
Despite the growing number of unemployed persons and the numerous and clear-cut indications that unemployment is the product of forces beyond the control of individual workers and their families, aid given to the unemployed has remained at what could only be interpreted as a punitive level. 
The consequences of this in human terms needs to be thought about by this Parliament. I have taken four individual cases from my own constituency. These cases are perfectly typical. They have one advantage over some other cases, that each of them has been thoroughly researched. Responsibility for the problems in these cases lies not with the individuals but within the administration of social security. Firstly,  Mr W.  M., is a father of three children. He found that his cheques have been running two and three weeks behind for the past three months and on several occasions he has been forced to send his two school children to school without breakfast. Secondly, Miss T. D. lives with her widowed mother. She has had frequent delays in the receipt of unemployment benefits. On one occasion not through her fault at all a benefit cheque was delayed a month.  Her  mother has been served with an eviction notice as on a widow's pension she is unable to support herself and her daughter and to maintain regular periodic payments of rent. Thirdly,  Mr A.  A. is the father of six children.  His  cheques have been regularly late- on average ten days to a fortnight- in the last three months. On the last occasion in early February he was unable to purchase exercise books for his children or afford school shoes for the children concerned. Finally, the fourth case is that of  Mr E.  P., who has one child and his wife is pregnant. In the eight weeks since he initially registered as unemployed he received only one cheque for $89.70. The child had bronchitis and the parents were unable to afford medicine. 
The source of these problems was identified for the Government six or seven months ago in the Myers report. Again I quote: 
In the course of visits to DSS and CES offices in many urban, suburban and rural areas, it became obvious to the Inquiry that, almost without exception, they are operating under severe stress. This was most evident in large offices in States in which decentralisation has not progressed far. 
The basic cause was clearly the fact that the resources of offices in both staffing and accommodation had not matched the rapid growth of unemployment during the last two or three years. 
The effect of this is cumulative. Errors and delays inevitably occur and result in severe hardship to clients whose benefit cheques are delayed. 
I make no charge against the officers for as the Myers report says:   . . the Inquiry expresses its admiration of the way in which many of these officers, both young and old, have carried their load, but it is clear that most of them are operating under heavy stress and without any reasonable expectation that the load will be lessened. 
There is of course disagreement between the Government and the Opposition about the best solution in the long run for the problems of the economy. The Opposition does not agree with the Government that obsession with inflation will solve Australia's problems. We will also no doubt disagree on who is actually responsible for these problems. But it seems to me that in this Parliament we should be able to agree on ameliorative measures in this year, 1978. We need to increase the staff in the Department of Social Security. We need to push ahead further with decentralisation, though I agree that that is a longer process. I think it is important that the payment of unemployment benefits result from a positive generation of the cheque in the Department of Social Security and not in the Commonwealth Employment Service. I think we should divorce the CES and the Department of Social Security more clearly from each other in these tasks so that one can be an employment agency and the other can deal with the social security problem. That of course is argued by Henderson and Myers. We have to think seriously about entitlement to benefits from the date of registration because these appalling human problems posed by these delays have to be faced by this Parliament. 
Even in the simplest way we need to think about the accommodation in our social security offices. I quote again from the Myers report. The comments reflect many of my own experiences. It states: 
In visiting various offices of the DSS, the Inquiry noted that the standard of accommodation provided for the delivery of welfare services is, in general, second rate in comparison with accommodation occupied by organisations such as 
Medibank. The Inquiry finds that the standard accommodation which greets DSS clients is depressing and believes that persons seeking welfare support should be provided with facilities equal to those provided by private enterprise. 
I say in conclusion that the report is there; the proposals are there; let us hope that both the Government and the Opposition can get some action on this problem this year. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to place before the House the problems of some 85 of my constituents who are ex-employees of a defunct company, Ali Castings Pty Ltd. Naturally I am concerned with the problems of these employees. I also think that the problems raise general issues of interest to all members of this House and indeed to all thinking Australians. 
On 5 April 1977 Ah Castings was placed in the hands of a receiver. Two days later, on 7 April, the factory closed, and the employees were informed that no wages were forthcoming. The collapse of this company, after full investigation, was clearly not due in any sense to the fault of the workers themselves. There were good industrial relations within the company. There was a high level of productivity, and there were good quality products. Investigations have clearly revealed that overwhelmingly the failure of Ali Castings was due to faulty financial management. To put it delicately, the administration was, at best, incompetent. Yet the burden of that managerial incompetence is borne by the 85 employees cast out of work without their due wages, through no fault of their own. Nearly a year later the wages of those 85 employees are still forthcoming. The 85 workers, according to the receiver, are owed approximately $50,000 which consists of unpaid wages, unpaid annual leave, in some cases accrued long service leave and- possibly this is more debatable- wages in heu of notice. 
The funds are available to pay all or most of these overdue wages, but it is subject to the prior claim of the Commonwealth Taxation Office for $40,000 for unpaid group tax. I think one should note the double unfairness. The 85 workers have had their tax instalments deducted from their wages by the company. Because of imprudent, incompetent and improvident management, the company made no adequate provision for the tax it had collected. Thus the 85 workers, having already paid their tax, are to be denied their unpaid wages so the tax Bill can be met. 
I do not believe that honourable members opposite, however sympathetic they may be to the economic system under which we live, believe that such an outcome is fair, just or tolerable. We in the Labor Party are committed to the ending of this type of situation which in cases of bankruptcy or liquidation gives priority to taxation over the wages of workers. In our platform we are committed 'to give employees claims for wages, leave and other entitlements absolute priority over all other creditors including the Australian and various State governments and, if necessary, to establish a national fidelity fund for this purpose'. One does not expect the present Government to be capable of so sweeping and radical a reform which would give preference to the ordinary wage earners over the taxation authorities, but I think one might hope in this case for a generous response to this claim- a response which would place wages before taxes. 
I recognise that under the present taxation provisions priority is given to the claims of the Taxation office. However, I believe the Treasurer has a discretion. I would have thought that in the case of the employees of Ali Castings there is a powerful case for the exercise of this discretion. I am grateful that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is present tonight. I urge him to exercise his discretion in this case and thus serve the interests of justice, equity and fair play. 
Is the Minister for Defence aware of the high turnover rate among lower ranks of the Australian Army Reserve? Did the Millar report on the Citizen Military Forces recommend action to overcome this avoidable wastage of personnel and expertise? Have these recommendations been implemented? Are existing funding arrangements for the Australian Army Reserve so restrictive as to seriously jeopardise the defence effective capacity of the Australian Army Reserve? 
-The Opposition has moved to set up a  joint  committee to look at the long-term problems of unemployment in this society. We recognise- I believe that many members on the other side of the House recognise- that the most serious social problem facing this society at the moment is the problem of unemployment. We also recognise that, on the evidence of overseas experience, it does not seem to be simply a temporary phenomenon. It is an international phenomenon and I suggest that it is not only the result of particular temporary economic factors but also reflects long-range problems accruing in all developed economies. Therefore, we are asking that the resources of this Parliament be used in a relatively bipartisan way to look at the fundamental problems in relation to unemployment. 
It does seem to me that the response to this proposal by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  is in fact simplistic and unrealistic in his failure to recognise the depth of the problems that we face. In fact, his only reply was not to face the proposals that we made but to use the sterile argument which is used again and again that, firstly, unemployment is all the result of inflation; secondly, that the Labor Party in government was responsible for inflation; and, thirdly, that the unions, with their wage pressures, are responsible. 
Let me say that of course there is a link between inflation, recession and the problems of employment, but the evidence of the whole of the developed world would suggest, firstly, that the relationship is not simple; and, secondly, that even with reductions in the level of inflation we are faced with long-term structural economic problems. Therefore, we have suggested to the House that a committee should look at some of the major aspects of this problem, but not in a short-run way. I have talked before in this House of various immediate ameliorative measures that we should take. I have previously suggested steps such as increasing the rate of unemployment benefit, trying to reduce the form-filling bureaucracy associated with unemployment and trying to define more clearly the roles of the Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of Social Security. Those are immediate steps that need to be taken. On the other hand I believe that this House needs to sit down and look at the structural problems underlying unemployment. If inflation should fall considerably we will be left, at least for the rest of the 1 970s, with severe unemployment. 
We are asking, first of all, that a committee be set up to examine the extent to which unemployment has become a long-term problem; that is, to what extent is unemployment to persist in this society even if the recession should pass away, inflation should pass away and the world economic malaise should pass away. Such expectations are extremely optimistic but even if all those things improved the evidence of the structural weaknesses in this economy would suggest continuing unemployment in the long term. Again, the degree to which unemployment bears particularly on certain industries, regions and sectors of the work force has to be considered. Much of this undermines completely the simplistic argument that it is simply inflation and it is simply wage pressures which cause unemployment. Some of the regions most severely hit by unemployment are ones in which the weaknesses are in the structure of the industries, not particularly in the wage patterns established in those industries. Regional concentrations of unemployment suggest that certain regional industries are much more vulnerable to employment problems than other industries. 
Let us also look at another problem, which takes us away to a certain extent simply from wage considerations. Another group we have to think about is the young people- youth unemployment. This is not simply a product of either high wages or inflation. All of the overseas evidence suggests that since 1 950 in each economic downturn the proportion of young people unemployed has risen. It has become increasingly an intractable problem for modern economies. I believe that even if most of the problems that the Minister talked about- and he talked very little about the real problem of unemployment- were dealt with we still would face a problem with our young people relating to the changing demographic patterns. I think we have to consider the educational aspects of youth unemployment. It is a long-term problem, and it is one into which this committee should look. It is a problem which has been growing through each recession. 
The social implications of prolonged unemployment have to be considered. Because this country has been fortunate for about 40 years and has not had unemployment at the levels which we now have we are not aware of the depth of the social implications of the present level of unemployment. In an entirely different society, bred with utterly different expectations, the damage to the social structure may be far greater than anything experienced in the Great Depression, when the expectations amongst the working people in many ways were not so high. We already have gathering and growing evidence that problems, such as the level of suicide, the level of illness and the level of family stress may be directly related to growth in unemployment. So the social problem needs to be considered. 
Another consideration is the applicability to Australia of innovative employment-creating schemes operating in other comparable countries. I would not condemn the Government for the efforts it has made in this regard. But I feel that most Government supporters would admit that mostly these are band-aid schemes. Schemes are being developed, particularly in the Scandinavian countries and West Germany, which are efforts to introduce much more worthwhile ways of handling the problem of unemployment. Why should there not be a committee of this nature looking at those kinds of contributions which are being made overseas to overcome the unemployment problem and the extent to which unemployment could be reduced by implementing and extending manpower programs? 
Let us consider again the problem of unemployment in its structural sense. Reports that have been prepared, indicate that if this country is to be economically competitive in the next decade it will have to face the need to restructure considerable parts of its manufacturing base. But that restructuring can take place only if we have a manpower policy which will cope with the manpower problems deriving from those changes. This is something at which such a committee could look. 
I could go on examining the specific terms of reference we have proposed. Instead I appeal again to the Minister to put aside the kind of partisan bickering about who is to blame for the present situation. Let us recognise that we have the worst unemployment situation this country has faced for 40 years. Let us try to utilise the facilities of this House to look at the underlying sources of unemployment. Of course, it is certainly up to the Government to produce the short run ameliorative measures. But, I hope that we will get a more generous response from honourable members opposite to the proposals for a deeper analysis contained in this motion. 
I wish to raise tonight the exaggerated and rather hysterical response to security in which all honourable members, attendants, aides and workers in the Parliament are now entangled. I do not deny that some security arrangements are probably necessary for this Parliament. What I query is the rushed, hurried and sudden imposition on the Parliament of a set of security arrangements for which no clear arguments have ever been adduced, whose nuisance value might well outweigh any positive virtues and which appear unlikely to deter anyone with malign intentions towards any member or members of this House. 
My first objection is to the sudden method of the implementation of these security arrangements, virtually by overnight edict from the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the 
House, the supposed guardians of the rights and privileges of the members of this Parliament. I do not question the sincerity of the Presiding Officers; what I do question is their failure to consult more widely with the members of the Parliament. As was said elsewhere, and I think said well: 'The rights and privileges of members of parliament are peculiarly matters for the Parliament to consider and there should not be an infringement of these rights and privileges, whatever that infringement might be, without proper consultation and discussion with the members of the Parliament'. 
Undoubtedly, barriers have been created between members of this Parliament and the public. There is an inevitable sense of intimidation arising from the apparatus of control and name taking which has been created. Undoubtedly, inhibitions might arise in relation to contact between members of parliament and persons wishing to consult them in private. Moreover, I think it is fairly doubtful that the infringements will yield any effective security in this warren of a building. I think that, if we are really concerned with security, the act;on we should take is straight away is to begin to build a new Parliament House, conceived in terms of the needs of the late twentieth century. 
My real reason for rising tonight is to try to find out why this set of restrictions has been imposed. We have never been given any clear and reasonable justification for the sudden imposition of these restrictions after decades of neglect. The all-purpose excuse that has been used has been the dreaded word 'terrorism'. It was used again tonight as a justification for dubious actions. We are in great danger in this House of drifting into a situation whereby the incantation of the word 'terrorism' will serve the coalition to stifle rights and liberties, even rights and liberties of members of this Parliament, just as the incantation of the word 'communism' was used in the 1950s and 1960s to stifle rights and liberties. 
What seems to have happened has been a gross over-reaction to the tragedy of the Hilton bombing. I think it was obvious at the time in the use of the Army. In the view of many counter terrorist experts that was a counter-productive overreaction. This House should demand a cool explanation of the nature, form and possibilities of terrorism in this society, some critical examination of the threats we need to guard against. This House has never been given such an explanation. 
I hoped to find one by reading the  Sir Robert  Menzies lecture of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  which was devoted to the subject of terrorism. 
I read it and was extremely disappointed with it. If one goes through it thoroughly one finds only two specific references to terrorism in Australia. One of these references is vague and misleading and the other is inadequate. I quote the vague and misleading one. The Prime Minister said: 
Violence is by no means a new phenomenon in this country. 
It is true in a general sense that there have been riots, and also clashes between strikers and pickets in this society but the peculiar thing about Australia is that it has been overwhelmingly free from political terrorism directed against particular individuals. Unlike practically every other society in the world in the 20th century we have never had an act of political assassination in Australia. That needs to be remembered. We should not do injustice to our history. The Prime Minister also stated: 
In the last 1 5 years there have been more than 40 incidents involving the use of explosives. 
We need details about that statement. The Prime Minister should give this House an explanation of those events. I raise the issue because if we are not careful the very over-reaction to terrorism will itself incite terrorism. There is no doubt amongst most counter terrorist experts - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I would like firstly to echo the compliments paid by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  to the able statement on public broadcasting by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  Indeed, I think I could say that it is the only stimulating statement to have emerged from the Government benches in the past six weeks. 
It consists of three major elements. The first seeks to outline the general assumptions and philosophic principles upon which the Government's overall approach to broadcasting planning and development will be based. The second element is in regard to the general strategy and objectives of the Government in relation to public broadcasting, one of the three sectors into which broadcasting in Australia has been divided. The public broadcasting segment has been defined by the Green Report as applying to those stations operated by non-profit organisations and licensed to serve a defined or special interest section of the population. 
One of the problems that we on the Opposition side have, and that I certainly have, with the statement is that it is limited to one of the three sectors and that there are problems therefore in judging its full applicability. Also, of course, some of the general philosophical principles will be properly understood in their working only when we see the rest of the Minister's statements relating to commercial broadcasting and to national broadcasting. The third aspect of the statement relates to the detailed guidelines for the planning of public broadcasting in phase 1 . 
I want to deal with the philosophy first and then with those detailed guidelines. I think perhaps that 'philosophy' or 'philosophical principles' is putting it a bit high. It may be a bit exaggerated. There are certainly a lot of tensions within that philosophy, as I shall suggest in a moment, but I suppose that we in the Opposition must be thankful for small mercies. In the arid intellectual wilderness of this Government's legislation, even a collection of ideas is something of an oasis. Indeed, as someone suggested, if most members of this Government's front bench were struck by an idea it would probably prove fatal. 
It is also a very welcome statement in the sense that the hiatus which has characterised public broadcasting since 1974 has now been ended. Perhaps the alleged non-musical fiddling of the previous Minister distracted him from the concern for public broadcasting, but it is a matter of concern that for three to four years now we have had 20 or more bona-fide applicants waiting for public broadcasting licences. 
Turning to the philosophy, there are problems with it. However the first thing that should be said is that we on this side of the House appreciate very much this very strong statement of broadcasting philosophy, which clearly indicates the role of government in broadcasting planning. As the Minister points out, broadcasting is inextricably linked with matters of national policy. A number of major reasons for that strong link are given. The first is the need to ensure that public information is free; that expression is free. That is the first reason for government intervention. 
Secondly, as the Minister points out, broadcasting is a medium of communication which is a valuable national resource. Thirdly, he points out that the spectrum itself is a scarce resource. Fourthly, there is the simple necessity for government regulation in order to prevent chaos. Perhaps even more important from the Opposition's point of view- this point is made later in the Minister's statement; it certainly underlies my whole philosophy for broadcasting, and it is stated in the Green Report- the airwaves are a public property, not a private asset. The implication is that to grant a broadcasting licence is to bestow a privilege, not to recognise a right. It is a privilege which those who represent the public, and the public itself, are entitled to withdraw if it is abused. 
These are very fine theoretical principles. How far does the Government intend to evolve a policy based on these assumptions? One of the first worries is that the notion of free enterprise is smuggled into the Minister's key statement on his basic approach, even though I believe it can be argued that in many cases a commitment to freedom of expression and to freedom of enterprise is a commitment to two principles which may prove incompatible. One has only to read the various reports on the subject both here and overseas to be reminded of some of these incompatibilities. 
Certainly, to date in this country the commercial sector has contributed little to that range and diversity of opinion which, according to the Minister, is characteristic of genuine free expression. Again I read from the statement: 
We believe that the Australian broadcasting system should aim for diversity and quality as an overall objective and also to cater for and reflect the widest possible spectrum of information, opinion, values and interests in Australian society. 
The implications of that statement for many of the commercial licensees in this country is significant. Indeed, if that is to be the Government's philosophy, the licences of many of them may be in serious jeopardy. 
But the major problem with the philosophy as expressed is that it presents a statement of overall objectives for the system as a whole, but the details of the statement relate to only one of the three sectors, namely, public broadcasting. The Minister has deliberately eschewed from the statement reference to the national and commercial sectors. These have been neglected, quite deliberately, in order to permit a concentration on public broadcasting. This means that it is, first of all, difficult to judge the adequacy of the philosophy as a whole. 
Secondly or, if you will, conversely, it is difficult to judge the details of the public broadcasting system when they represent only one segment of the Government's strategy. As we do not know the other elements of the approach, and have only the details for public broadcasting, some of these details, as I shall show, are difficult to judge. 
The most important weakness that flows from this deliberate limitation is the overlap problem; that there is clearly an overlapping between public and national broadcasting and between public and commercial broadcasting. If I may suggest some of these overlap problems: How is the minority interest role of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to be affected by the development of public broadcasting, as indicated in the statement? What exactly is to be the role of the ethnic stations? Are they to be part of public broadcasting? Are they to be part of a national broadcasting sector or- and there were some signs of this towards the end of last year- is there to be a fourth sector, a distinctive ethnic sector? 
Again, the public broadcasters are to play a major educational role. How will this affect one of the major tasks, in the past at least, of the ABC. I refer to its educational role. Again, there is the quality music provision of the ABC. How is that affected by some of the provisions for special types of stations in the public broadcasting field? There do seem to be a whole series of overlapping problems here about which it is difficult to make judgments until we see a fuller statement. Because the present statement is restricted the technical question of sharing facilities is ignored. Certainly, in some rural areas there might be much to be said for commercial, national and public broadcasting amalgamations- that is, in some sense the three groups working together using a single technical facility. Again, that sort of issue can be judged only when we have a fuller statement before us. 
Now let me look at the detailed guidelines presented in relation to public broadcasting. I think that firstly the Minister is to be congratulated on the sensible, functional categories into which public broadcasting has been divided- educational, special interest and community groups. I think the important thing here is not so much the division but that the groups have been treated elastically, fluidly and imaginatively. The Minister pointed out quite clearly that these are not to be prescriptive; they are indicative. They are not intended to be mutually exclusive; there could be combinations. I am certain that that kind of approach will be much appreciated by the Public Broadcasting Association of Australia. I think we should welcome this kind of approach to the categories indicated in the statement. 
Secondly, the statement pointed out that in Phase 1 there will be only three medium coverage FM stations for public broadcasters in each capital city. In one sense that is pretty generous because insofar as I understand the situation, during Phase 1 there will probably be a maximum of about nine FM frequencies available in each capital city and three of these is a fair share for the public broadcasters. One thing that worries me is that in this statement Phase 1 is pretty indefinite. It is dependent on a technical assessment of available FM frequencies. Unfortunately, the engineering division of the department is notoriously conservative. Indeed, I feel that without some real pressure Phase 1 could simply hamstring the rapid development of public broadcasting in Australia. 
This brings me to some of the problems of the engineering division of the Ministry. Let us take the American example of the Los Angeles area where at the moment there are some 60 stations, approximately 40 of which are on the FM band. Quite clearly one can argue that the Los Angeles approach has been too permissive. I notice in the Minister's statement a reference to the overpermissiveness of some American decisions. If that situation of some 40 FM frequencies is too permissive, I think equally the Australian situation is too restrictive, as envisaged in Phase 1 , or at least it is too slow to recognise and to realise the technical advances overseas. I think there can be little doubt if we compare the Australian situation with most European situations and the American situation that technical developments are lagging and that this generation is being denied the range and choice of FM frequencies that should be available in an advanced industrial society. 
Again, I think the engineers have been slow to open up the AM band. By making all AM stations directional we would offer far more opportunities on the AM band. I recognise that if we adopted that kind of policy it would require expensive modifications to existing station transmitters. If the Government is committed to the belief that broadcasting should 'cater for and reflect the widest possible spectrum of information, opinions, values and interests in Australian society', those who have had an advantage for many years should be required to adapt their transmitters to offer more opportunities on the AM band as an addition to the developments I mentioned on the FM band. 
I turn now to another issue which seems to me a worrying one, that is, the invidious exclusion of political parties. Political parties will not be issued with public broadcasting licences. On the other hand churches will be issued with them; they are certainly not excluded. All other sorts of pressure groups may get them but the group not permitted to have them is political parties. It would be perfectly awful if one had to listen to a Liberal Party station all day. No doubt honourable members opposite would agree that if we had a Labor Party station pouring out information all day that would be equally obnoxious. In order to have a party balance all the frequencies would be eaten up. If all the parties were to get some representation, there would be no frequencies left. However, multi-party stations are common in a number of overseas countries. That is, there is sharing of a single facility and sharing of air time. I think that to single out political parties as against all other pressure groups and institutions in society is somewhat invidious. 
Finally, there was much to admire in the theory of the statement but the real issue is: 'Will these possibilities be achieved in practice?' Because of some decisions made last year I think there are still dangers in departmental technical planning and social planning controls. That is, as the statement said: 
The Minister will call for applications for one or more public broadcasting licences for a service area. 
That power that has existed in the past in relation to commercial radio- the social planning power in the Department; the technical power- may, if we are not very careful, cautious and alert, vitiate any real adjudicatory power for the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. I am sure that all people interested in public broadcasting want to see the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal have a real and effective power, with its decisions made in public. That is where the decisions about the allocation of licences should really be made. I would like to see the department limited tightly to simply a technical role. I am worried that these departmental powers might politicise the handling of public broadcasting licences as departmental power has in the past politicised commercial licences. I think that would be a tragedy and a fatal flaw in the high ambitions of the Minister. 
-Has the Minister for Health noticed the advice given by the Hospitals Contributions Fund of Australia to its contributors in nursing homes that they should suspend their membership of that fund temporarily and gain free cover from Medibank? Is this a manoeuvre to transfer costs from the private funds to Medibank? Will the Minister take steps to prevent such manoeuvres? Will he insist that the private funds cover their members in times of sickness as well as in times of health? 
Did the Prime Minister note yesterday that the honourable member for Kingston, speaking for the Government and on behalf of the Prime Minister in the House, said - 
-I have often criticised the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  for his complacency in a stagnating economy. I commend him for the intentions, if perhaps not for the achievement, of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill. In particular, I think that he deserves commendation for standing up to the tax bludgers and their morally obtuse entrepreneurs. A reading of the letters from these people leads one to understand quite clearly that they are part of the natural constituency of the Liberal Party of Australia. However, the Bill clearly does not go far enough. It is good in its intentions but there are problems with its achievement because primarily, with one exception, it continues to play the game by the old rules. For this reason, I move on behalf of the Opposition the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst denying the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the operative date for all the clauses in the Bill terminating tax avoidance schemes should be I July 1977, and that the Government should adopt as a matter of principle applying to all such amendments in the future that the operative date should be the beginning of the financial year in which the Government announced its intention to legislate'. 
There are possibly some redeeming virtues in the economic system under which we live. But there are absolutely no redeeming virtues whatsoever in the schemes struck at by this Bill. None of the schemes makes any constructive contribution whatsoever to the system under which we live. Indeed, in the whole deluge of letters which all honourable members have received from profiteers and their operators, there is not a single argument to defend any of the substantive tax avoidance measures. No one writes those letters to defend the measures themselves. Indeed, a stench of hypocrisy hangs around most of these letters. I wish to read one from a self-confessed operator. He writes: 
Being an operator in the tax avoidance business, we agree - 
I emphasise the words 'we agree '- . . . that prompt legislative action is required. Indeed, the growth of the tax avoidance industry over the last four years has been caused by the ineptitude of the Government and /or the administration in their failure to take appropriate action. 
I would have thought that the chief reason for these activities was the people who, in fact, designed the schemes. I think that I could sum up the situation by saying that the technical ingenuity of these measures are equalled only by their moral squalidity. 
Yet, it is these profiteers and the designers of these schemes who, in their clubs and in their counting houses, are the greatest advocates of strict work tests for the unemployed. They say: 'Let us keep an eagle eye on any malingering on the dole'. Honourable members know that. They have heard them in the clubs to which I am occasionally admitted. They are the people who say: 'There should be full repayment of any minimal overpayment of pensions and benefits '. They are the people who claim that there should be proper incentives kept for unemployment benefits and therefore keep them below the poverty line. The people at whom this Bill is aimed, the tax bludgers and the devisers of these rackets, are simply parasites on our economic system. We need a strong purgative to expel them, like the tapeworm, from the system. The chief purgative employed in this legislation is retrospectivity. I want to say a few words about the purgative. On retrospectivity we have heard much high cant. The people whose moral squalidity I have sketched have suddenly taken to high principles. 
-High cant. First of all, we read in one of the letters that Magna Carta has been undermined by this measure of the Treasurer; that the liberties of the Australian people are in danger; and that their human rights are threatened by this retrospectivity. I would say that the people who write these lettersthe tax bludgers and their parasitic entrepreneurs- have no moral status whatsoever to make such claims. Their very actions have denied them the right to pose as moral authorities. 
There is an issue of high principle involved in retrospectivity, and we cannot avoid it simply because the victims themselves are squalid and unsavoury. That is, we have to ask ourselves whether in these circumstances retrospectivity is right, reasonable, just and defensible. First, let us note that whilst opposition to retrospectivity is a general legal principle in Britain and Australia, it is not an inviolable principle. It can be subject to pragmatic considerations. That is, there is a presumption against but not a total prohibition of retrospective legislation. Indeed, on the very issue with which we are concerned today- tax and retrospectivity- we have the peculiarly relevant comment of Lord Greene, Master of the Rolls, in a major English tax decision in 1942. In commenting on the law that had been passed he said: 
The fact that the section has to some extent a retrospective effect appears to us of no importance when it is realised that the legislation is a move in a long and fiercely contested battle with individuals who well understand the rigour of the contest. 
There are Australian precedents for the procedures adopted. If one looks at the Income Tax and Social Services Contribution Assessment Bill (No. 3) of 1952, one sees an element of retrospectivity there. I think, though it is more debatable, that there is an element of retrospectivity in the Income Tax Laws Amendment (Royalties) Bill of 1976. But there is an even clearer parallel at the moment, and that is the British precedent in the Budget brought down on 12 April 1978 by  Mr Healey,  who is much more ambitious and sweeping in dealing with exactly the same sort of problem as is faced by the Australian Treasurer.  Mr Healey  said that tax avoidance: has emerged recently in a new form which involves marketing a succession of highly artificial schemes- when one is detected the next is immediately sold- and is accompanied by a level of secrecy which amounts almost to a conspiracy to mislead. The time has not only come to stop the particular schemes we know about but to ensure that no schemes of a similar nature can be marketed in the future. 
Therefore there are precedents and parallels for action, but above all retrospectivity is necessary because it is the only effective sanction against the proliferation of tax avoidance schemes. That was the very reason why  Mr Healey  made his move to prevent the growth of other schemes. It is the only effective sanction against the problem because essentially what we are faced with is what I might call quickies- that is, devices that last for one or two years. They are shot down, and a new scheme is busily devised. The only effective sanction generally against that is the use of retrospectivity. Otherwise the only sanction is on the ingenuity of the devisers of new schemes. We need something more effective than reliance on a lack of ingenuity. This point was clearly recognised by Lord Greene in the judgment I quoted that again retrospectivity was a necessity in relation to the devising of these schemes. 
Indeed, if we do not have retrospectivity, we will simply go on with a game: 'We got you this year. You devise a new scheme next year. We will chase that up in a couple of years' time and catch that one'. I believe that the issue of tax avoidance in all of western society has now become a much more serious one and can no longer be treated as the game it has long been regarded as being. If we want to do real battle with tax avoiders, if we are really concerned to do war with these parasites, retrospectivity is an inevitable adjunct to what we have to do. It is a necessary weapon in the battle. For this reason we in the Australian Labor Party would urge a much more sweeping retrospectivity. We would urge that the legislation on all six or eight schemes be made retrospective to the beginning of the financial year, 1 July 1977. We would go further: We would establish that as a basic principle of the taxation system. We are moving for its adoption at this stage simply because the amendments we moved originally were ruled out of order under the Standing Orders and therefore we are required to lay down the principles of those particular amendments in a secondreading amendment. The first advantage of treating all schemes in the same manner is that we respond to the complaints of the tax dodgers themselves. When I get these letters I find them saying to me: 
The Government is acting selectively with regard to Curran schemes as compared with people who entered into other arrangements which were just as artificial but did not have the endorsement of the High Court. 
Somewhere else I read: 
If you are relying on the then Treasurer,  Mr Lynch  's, 1 6 August 1977, Budget Speech as the day on which to back  date the legislation, then why did you not back date the other legislation embodied in the present Bill to that date also? 
Let us greet them with an affirmative response to those questions. Let us prevent any discrimination and date them all back to 1 July 1 977. 
The second advantage of such a procedure is that we would establish a general principle, removing all uncertainty and all the pedantic debates about which Treasurer said what in which debate. If we establish the date for retrospectivity as the beginning of the financial year, we will no longer have the continuing debate:  'Mr Crean  said that then. That is pretty strong. Was  Mr Lynch  strong enough on this occasion? Was the present Treasurer clear enough at times?' We would avoid all those disputes by the adoption of such a principle. Above all, we would establish an effective deterrent to the further proliferation of schemes whose sole raison d'etre was the avoidance of tax. The  Economist,  which is not a peculiarly pro-Labor journal, commenting on  Mr Healey  's Budget proposals said: 
These will deal a lethal blow at all tax avoidance schemes. 
That is what we want to do here, to deal a blow, not just at particular schemes we have identified, but indeed at all schemes which are devised solely for tax avoidance purposes. 
Allied to the kind of effective sanction provided by an established rule of retrospectivity is the need to re-write section 260 of the Principal Act, which has been gutted by what can only be described as the Byzantine decisions of the High Court. I quote from the Asprey report, because two years ago it offered clearly to the Labor Government and now to the Liberal-Country Party Government a proposal for clarifying and amending section 260. It said that the section should:  be amended to reflect the following principles. If any arrangement had or was calculated to result directly or indirectly in the type of tax advantage described in the lettered sub-clauses of the section, the Commissioner should have the right to disregard it for taxation purposes, unless the arrangement was an ordinary business transaction creating rights or obligations that would normally be created between business people dealing at arm 's length in a transaction of the nature in question and effected by means normally employed in such a transaction, or was made in the ordinary course of making or changing an investment, or was a bona fide arrangement of a person's or a family's affairs, and the Commissioner was satisfied that the arrangement was not entered into solely or primarily for the purpose of obtaining the tax advantage or that one of its main objectives was to obtain the tax advantage. 
It seems to me that if we followed that suggestion in regard to the Principal Act, we would have the other part of the weapon needed for use against tax avoiders. A revised section 260, plus the sanction provision I have outlined, would provide the taxation authorities with weapons against the parasites who erode the struggle to create an equitable tax system in this society. It would turn the game we now play with the tax avoiders into the war that should be waged against them. 
-I wish to speak briefly to two of the major issues brought up in respect of the amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  that is the principle of retrospectivity and the point made by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  about acting with expediency in this case. I take the principle of retrospectivity first. It has often been said that one man's principle is another man's prejudice. We have here a conflict between principles, the principle of retrospectivity and the principle of equity in the distribution of the taxation burden. As always in English law there are also pragmatic considerations applying to any legal principle. In all the obiter dicta referred to by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  the word 'general' was used. In English law there is a certain expectation that the law will not be retrospective but there is no clear prohibition against it. There are numerous examples of that in the past. I referred to some of these in my speech on the second reading last week. In particular, the quotation which the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  also used relates to this point. He quoted Lord Greene in an important English tax case in 1942. I shall quote Lord Greene again. This is the third time in this debate that he has been quoted. He said: 
The fact that the section has to some extent- 
That is the law which had just been passed in Great Britain-  has to some extent a retrospective effect appears to us of no importance when it is realised that the legislation is a move in a long and fiercely contested battle with individuals who well understand the rigour of the contest. 
Thus in a highly relevant case a very respected judge was prepared to accept a pragmatic degree of inhibition on the basic rule of retrospectivity. That also brings us to the point raised by the honourable member for Penh; that is acting with expediency. In a sense we are involved in a vigorous battle with those who design tax avoidance schemes. We are concerned in this debate only with those schemes deliberately designed for no other purpose than tax avoidance. We need to watch very carefully that we are not legislating against other schemes. We are acting against schemes which have one single purpose; that is to avoid taxation. This is a battle conducted vigorously by taxation departments all around the world. As Lord Greene said, the people we are opposing in this legislation are well aware of the vigorous battle going on. 
Unless we have some degree of retrospectivity it is very difficult to stop what is being done in the first or second year of the activity because it is difficult to discover it. 
As  Mr Healey  pointed out in a speech I quoted last week, provided the designers of these schemes are conspiratorial and secretive enough they can get away with them for at least one or possibly two years until they are picked up by the taxation authorities. It is interesting to note that not only Australia but also Britain and most countries belonging to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development have begun to rethink the principle of retrospectivity in order to deal with this major problem. It is a problem in Australia. The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  is often rude about me. But I think he made a good point the other day when he said: 
There is no doubt that never before in the history of Australia have we seen such concerted attacks on the revenue as have taken place in recent times. 
That is true of most Western advanced societies. It is compelling them all to reconsider what has been a fairly basic principle in most of their legal systems; that is the principle of retrospectivity. For all these reasons we on this side of the House oppose the amendment brought forward by the right honourable member for Lowe. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the fixed costs of operating a Boeing 727-100 series are $30,000 a day? What is the estimated annual cost of operating the two 727 Boeings the Government proposes buying for the Prime Minister's overseas travels? By how much will the appropriation for the VIP fleet increase in the next Budget to cover the two Boeings ' operations? 
I think that nothing better indicates the fact that we are governed by intellectual pygmies in this country than the shabby way in which gift duty and death duty have been shuffled off in this legislation. If honourable members look at the second reading speeches of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on all four measures they will see they occupy less than 3V6 columns of  Hansard-  columns virtually devoid of argument and filled only with perfunctory technical details about the legislation. The only excuse that I can think of for the Treasurer's attitude towards this House is that, of course, death and gift duties make only a minor contribution to the total Commonwealth taxation revenue. Less than one per cent of total taxation revenue for the Commonwealth comes from death and gift duty. 
Yet I do not think that the Government can be permitted to escape all consideration of the symbolic significance of these duties. It cannot be permitted to ignore the principles involved in death duty. It cannot be permitted without argument to kill off the only significant tax on capital at the Commonwealth level, nor can it be permitted to shuffle off in so shabby a way a form of taxation which is near universal in both developed and developing societies with capitalist or mixed economies. 
Let me just say something about those principles which I admit the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has endeavoured to discuss but which were not discussed at all by the Treasurer in his second reading speeches. Although death duties comprise a relatively small revenue yield they are highly symbolic, I think, for four major reasons, because of four principles which they embody. Firstly, death duties recognise that it is the State which makes possible, through its legal system and law enforcement agencies, the passing on of property after death. It is the state that makes that possible. Secondly, death duties clearly contribute to the principles of equity in the taxation system, and obviously we will have to say something more about equity. Thirdly, death duty and gift duty aim at a generational reduction in the inequalities which exist in our society, and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  yesterday illustrated very clearly the inequalities that exist in this society. Finally, there is a moral justification for taxing inherited wealth- wealth to which in general the person who has inherited has not contributed. 
I want first of all to amplify each of these principles. Let me take in defence of the position that I am upholding today a figure of impeccable conservative credentials- Winston Churchill- and to make it even more attractive to Government supporters I will quote him in his liberal phase in 1909. Churchill said: 
It has long been recognised that the state, which guarantees individuals the succession to their property, which secures them the peaceful entry upon the enjoyment of their property, has the right at the time of the death of the former occupant to levy a toll . . . 
Churchill was making the point that the State has a right to charge a fee for facilitating the transfer of property from one generation to the next. 
I will come to that in a moment. It is a facility which of course very much favours the rich. But Churchill goes further than simply saying a state has a right to do this. I quote him again: 
Taxes upon estates at death are necessary, legitimate and fair. 
This brings us to the question of equity in taxation legislation. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was discussing the principles involved in death duties- principles almost completely ignored by the Treasurer in his second reading speeches on this legislation- and I was calling to my aid an impeccable conservative, Winston Churchill, who said that taxes upon estates at death are necessary, legitimate and fair. I have discussed why they are legitimate. I want now to look at why they are fair, which brings me to the principle of equity in regard to taxation legislation, which has been much talked about in this House in recent days. 
Equity is not just a matter of lower taxes. We would all like to see lower taxes, but we would like to see them reduced in an equitable fashion. That means that considerations have to be given to the issue of taxable capacity, to the ability to pay of the taxpayer. Let me say that what has been going on in this country in recent times is that we have been buying inequity with regressive tax bribes. The February tax cuts were an effort to persuade people to support one party point of view. But, in terms of the way in which the cuts were made, they contributed to inequity in this society. The average man saved about $3 a week. The people on high incomes saved $20, $30 or more a week. I think people are beginning to realise now, as Medibank fees increase and as other costs increase, that they are in fact worse off by regressive tax cuts. 
I think we all agree that in order for a tax system to be fair and equitable the best criterion to use is the ability to pay. Moreover, the overall equity of the tax system can be increased if, to income tax, we add the supplement of a wealth tax of some kind because by adding such a tax to income tax we make allowance for the taxable capacity which wealth confers on its possessor over and above the income, if any, which derives from that wealth. I do not believe that anyone can deny that this extra taxable capacity arises from the very real advantages of security and opportunity which the ownership of wealth brings. If this is so, the pursuit of equity which Government supporters vaunted the other day compels them to some forms of supplement in direct taxation to income tax- to a wealth tax of some sort- and in this case we are talking about death dudes. 
Thirdly, death duties provide an encouragement to and, theoretically, a means of redistributing wealth generationally. So frail have our redistributive mechanisms in this society become that death duties, however limited they are in their task, should not be given away. We do not have very effective measures in this society for redistributing wealth. Let us not give away one of the few- admittedly weak in many ways- that we have. They make at least some contribution to redistribution in this society. 
Finally one can morally justify particular taxes on inherited wealth for such wealth usually is unrelated to the effort of those who benefit from it. If honourable members opposite are not happy with my arguments or with those of Churchill, perhaps they might take some note of the report of the Taxation Review Committeethe Asprey Committee- which conducted the most comprehensive review of taxation at the national level that we have had since the Second World War. I shall quote what it had to say about death duties. The Asprey Committee stated: 
Above all it believes that, though death taxes can never be simple taxes and though revenue from them will never be great compared with that from some other taxes, they have an essential role to play in the tax structure considered as a whole. 
I emphasise the words 'they have an essential role to play in the tax structure considered as a whole'. I remind the honourable member for Lilley that we have to consider the tax structure as a whole. It further stated: 
A death tax serves two main purposes. It serves to support the progressivity of the tax structure by the indirect means of a progressive levy on wealth once a generation. It also directly limits the growth of large inherited fortunes, a trend that most people would agree has undesirable social consequences. 
I sometimes wonder why people bother to write reports for this Government when so little notice is taken of them. 
Regardless of whether honourable members opposite agree with the Asprey Committee, Churchill or me, we do present a fairly formidable case for death duties- a case that any honest Treasurer would endeavour to answer in his second reading speeches. But in the utterly thin and shabby statements of the Treasurer in his second reading speeches not a single argument is advanced for the abolition of death duties. Perhaps the Treasury disagreed with him and therefore, for once, he had to write his own speech. Perhaps I am not being quite fair to the Treasurer. One argument has been advanced. The only reason advanced in the second reading speeches for the abolition of death duties is 'to give effect to the undertaking first given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his policy speech on 21 December 1977'. I realise that obsequiousness has gone a long way with this Government but this must be the classic case. The only justification advanced in second reading speeches for contravening 80 years of history and the almost universal practice of civilised mankind on a major matter is an undertaking by the Prime Minister in his policy speech. The contempt for Parliament can scarcely go farther than the refusal by the Government to present in this forum arguments to support its case. 
So off I went to the Prime Minister's speech. I was not very hopeful because there is growing evidence that the Prime Minister clearly is losing his marbles. I noted that in his answer to a question last week about employment in the automobile industry he gave more time to the psephological problems of the Labor Party than he gave to answering the question about employment. All I found when I went to that policy speech, in the hope of finding something useful, was a single sentence, a sob story. It stated: 
Estate duty has caused distress and hardship to thousands of Australian families, to small business, to farmers. 
Let me say in fairness to the Treasurer that he at least did mention small business in his second reading speeches. I do not believe that this undocumented- there is no evidence for it in the Prime Minister's speech- sob story is in any way sufficient justification, adequate reason or a convincing case for rejecting the claims of the States, for rejecting the principles of equity, for rejecting considerations of redistribution and for rejecting moral justifications in relation to death duties. Of course it may be a reason for reforming and amending the death duties that we have. 
We of the Opposition would not deny that Commonwealth estate duties and gift duties- indeed, the total national duties in this field- are in need of a thorough overhaul. Firstly, the complexity of the dual system of death duties and gift duties in Australia makes it administratively costly, leads to excessive duplication and gives rise in a capricious fashion to inequities and anomalies. This duality is partly being solved, as the honourable member for Lilley pointed out, by the States withdrawing from this field. But their desertion from this tax is no argument for the Commonwealth deserting this tax. Indeed, there may very well be a good argument for the Commonwealth staying in this field. We could have a tax without all the duality which has led to many of the complexities of recent years. Secondly, there is a high degree of tax avoidance, partly occasioned by the very duality of the system. As usual, such tax avoidance favours the very wealthy as against the moderately wealthy. Any examination of the incidence of death duties establishes that point. Again, we need reform in that field. Furthermore, the rate structure, particularly the exemption levels, is not adequately adjusted for inflation. I think there is agreement on both sides of the House that reform is needed here. There are still injustices in the treatment of the surviving spouse. Finally, the alleged sectional impact of death duties on the rural community which has arisen, at least in the immediate past, partly from the overvaluation of rural land, requires attention. I admit that these problems with death duties present a fairly formidable indictment of the existing system. But surely the response should be reform, not abandonment. The Asprey committee was aware of all these difficulties and the hardships they caused but, in direct contradiction to the Prime Minister it said: 
The Committee acknowledges the force of these criticisms - 
The sorts of criticisms I have just presented to the House- but disagrees with the conclusion. It believes that the avoidance and hardship difficulties can largely be overcome, and that, in concert with the States, a system of Australian death taxes can be devised which would minimise costs of administration and compliance. 
I want now to look at the question of death duties in an international, a comparative setting. Once this legislation is passed Australians will be practically the only country with no effective tax on capital. We have no capital gains tax and no wealth tax. We would thus become the only country among the 22 countries belonging to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development without a tax on capital at the national level. It is true that a small capital gains tax applies under section 26 (a) and 2 6 AAA of the principal Act but for all practical purposes this country, unlike any other OECD country, will be without a tax on capital. 
Death duties are a near universal feature of the tax systems of all OECD countries. In addition, most OECD countries have decided to supplement their death duties with either a capital gains tax or a wealth tax. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table prepared by the 
Library staff. I have spoken about it to the Government. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="109131197805103_32_0.jpg"></graphic>

-The table illustrates the payment of death duties, capital gains taxes and net wealth taxes in the OECD countries. It clearly shows the reactionary uniqueness which this country will possess at the national level once these measures have been passed. It will be the only advanced industrial society without a tax on capital. 
In conclusion, I say to the Government and to the small wealthy segment in this society that the Labor Party will not tolerate this uniqueness. It will not tolerate this gross affront to the principles of equity and fair play in the taxation system. We say now to all middle and lower income earners that we will not tolerate a tax system which places an unfair burden on them because the Government, unlike every other government in advanced industrial society, does not impose a tax on capital. When the Labor Party returns to government in 1980 we will ensure that wealth, as in every European country, will bear its fair share of taxation. Whether this will be done through the re-imposition of death duty, the introduction of a wealth tax, by revamping capital gains taxation or a combination of all these actions is something which will be determined in the years ahead. But of two things I am certain. One is that a tax on capital will be imposed. The second is that the very rich in our society will live to regret the opening of this Pandora's box through the abandonment of death duties. 
-One would have thought that even the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  would have learned a certain degree of humility from the intractable economic experience of his Government after  2Vi  years not to have made the easy ghb reference that somehow this is a problem stemming from the administration of the Labor Government. One would have thought that Government supporters would have realised by now that the economic malaise that gripped the Western world in the middle 1970s, and engulfed the Labor Government, was something which is not easy to correct and is not simple in cause. I think most of us are now fairly tired of the glib explanation that it derived simply from the Labor Government. Indeed, I think it is necessary to remind the Government of just two points. It was elected to power in December 1 975 on the promise that within three years it would provide employment for aU those people in this country who wanted it. It is true that there are still six months left out of that three-year period but the Government certainly will not fulfil that promise. Secondly, the Government needs to be reminded that it has been under its administration that we have had the highest unemployment ever. I think it is important to recognise that the figure of 410,000 Australians now in unemployment is higher in absolute numbers than even at the depths of the Great Depression of 1929-34. Of course, the proportion now is certainly smaller but the absolute figure is greater. It suggests the dimension of the problem which we are now facing and with which I presume these measures are intended to deal. 
Let me now turn to the Commonwealth Employment Service BUI 1978. As I think everyone is agreed that anything would be better than the present Commonwealth Employment Service, we must of necessity welcome this Bill. As  Mr Norgard  argued, the CES was a 1946 model organisation trying to cope with 1977 style problems. Let us be under no illusion that in this Bill the Government is providing a 1977 style organisation to cope with 1977 style problems; it is not. The Government in this Bill is providing simply a face lift for the CES. It is in fact a minimal solution to the maximal problems that this society faces. I argued in a debate yesterday that it is becoming increasingly difficult to understand why anybody bothers to write reports for this Government. I said that the Asprey report, the most comprehensive report on taxation since 1945, recommended the reform but retention of death duties. We know what happened to death duties yesterday under this Government. 
Similarly, I believe that this BUI is in no way, as the honourable member for Dundas argued, an appropriate response to the Norgard report. Let me quote what Norgard wanted from reforms of the CES. The report states:  . . that the CES must provide an improved service and an undertaking to support and strengthen the CES and its allied manpower activities. Without the political will and the investment of resources to make up for years of neglect, very little improvement can be expected or achieved. Lip service and token action will not be good enough. 
Lip service and token action will not be good enough. Unfortunately in many ways this Bill is Up service and token action. The provisions of the BUI follows the departmental submissions to Norgard rather more than they do the conclusions of the Norgard report. Norgard rejected explicitly the proposal in this BUI to reorganise the CES within the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. Secondly, Norgard recommended a far wider set of functions for the 
CES than are envisaged in this timid Bill. Thirdly, Norgard recommended that the CES should be given responsibility to devise manpower programs to relieve labour market ills. This Bill permits the Commonwealth Employment Service only to 'promote and implement approved manpower programs'. Honourable members should note those words. In other words, the manpower policies will come from elsewhere. The notion of devising manpower policies as recommended by Norgard has been deliberately cut out of the Bill. I think the words I quoted are significant; we may hear an interesting explanation of them from the Minister later. 
I refer next to the relationship between CES and unemployment and quote from another report which was written for this Government but equally taken no notice of, namely, the report of the Inquiry into Unemployment Benefit Policy and Administration- the Myers report. Myers recommended: 
That new administrative arrangements be devised so that the CES participation in the administrative process is reduced, and a more active and more public role is taken by DSS in the delivery of income support to the unemployed. 
Norgard followed that up by making much the same recommendation on this. He argued that:   . . a start of the implementation of the new unemployment benefit procedure outlined by the working parry, whereby CES involvement in unemployment benefit matters is minimised should be made as soon as possible. 
They are four major features of the Bill which run starkly counter to Norgard 's suggestions. It does seem to me that these inadequacies in this Bill, in relation to the Norgard report, are symptomatic of a total lack of a manpower policy- a total lack of any idea of how such a policy could be organisationally implemented in this country. Even if we accept the dubious thesis of the Government that curing inflation will reduce unemployment- a theory which still seems to be contradicted by facts- reducing the rate of inflation will not solve the problems of structural unemployment, which are clearly growing in this economy. 
What answer has the Government to the problem of the over 50-year-olds who are cast out of the work force by structural changes and whose long-range prospects for future employment now appear bleak? What responses other than temporary band-aids, well illustrated by the honourable member for Dundas, has the Government to structural youth unemployment? Indeed, it seems clear that unless we have long-term policies in this field, even if the inflation problem is cured a distinct residue of youth unemployment will remain in our society. Again, what about the problem of the long-term unemployed and unemployable people, who are the features of any prolonged economic malaise such as we are now passing through? 
We have urged upon this Government a positive manpower policy to face whatever long-term problems we fear confront this economy. We have been met with minimal ad hoc responses. We asked that this House take up the challenge of this major problem by setting up a committee to look at the problems of structural unemployment. That too was rejected by the Government. I think that for anyone who has any pride in his country one of the most disillusioning experiences is to read the contemporary literature and to see how negligent this country is in innovative responses to the challenge of structural unemployment. Indeed, Australia is scarcely mentioned in any of the international literature because it exercises very little imagination whatsoever in this field. 
I take one field with which I am relatively familiar- namely, youth unemployment- and refer briefly to some of the innovative responses being made overseas. One answer is directly to create jobs for young people in the public sector through public works programs, as is being done in Denmark, Finland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway and the United States, but not of course in Australia. Going even further another answer is the actual creation of jobs within the Public Service. At least these experiments are being made. Jobs are being created, with young people being given priority in the public sector. In Canada, France, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States employment for young people is being created by local communities. Work is now being done in the Scandinavian countries to try to solve some of the problems of the transition from education to work by a part time pattern of work in education between the ages of 1 5 and 1 7. 
The point already raised by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  about a flexible retirement scheme, as is operating in Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Norway, Spain, Sweden but not Australia, again will help to solve one of the problems at the other end, that is youth unemployment. Unless we begin to organise, not in the minimal way that we have been doing to date but with some vision and imagination, we will have these problems with us for a long time. In order to face up to those problems, we need an effective manpower organisation. 
I return again to the Bill in relation to those sorts of criticisms. I want only to make two major points in this regard. They are points to which I have already referred but which I should like to follow up. One is the point that the CES should actually devise manpower policies, as is suggested by the Norgard Committee. It does seem that the Bill deliberately denies the CES this right, although I would like to be assured by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  that my interpretation of clause 6 (c), which refers to promoting and implementing approved manpower programs, also includes the notion of creating manpower programs. I am not sure where else we are going to get them created. Obviously, a revamped CES is the best place for this creation to take place. 
I want to look also at the problem of the relationship of the CES to the Department of Social Security in relation to the payment of unemployment benefit. I would have thought that there is now near universal agreement- at least there is agreement in all the reports that the Government has had- that we have an excessively complex, cumbersome and duplicatory system involving, in an unnecessary way, both the CES and the Department of Social Security. First of all, the unemployed have to register with the CES. The work test administration, though not the work test judgment, is made by the CES. The claim forms have to go to the CES, which then forwards them to the Department of Social Security. The income statements have to be handed in each fortnight to the CES and then they have to be passed across to the Department of Social Security. We have an incredibly complex bureaucratic, and above all, negative apparatus. In many parts of Australia the CES is known as the Commonwealth Unemployment Service' simply because it has got this negative image from its deep involvement with the Department of Social Security over the paying of unemployment benefit. 
I would have thought a minimal reform that even this Government is capable of carrying out would be to follow through the Norgard Committee's report and reduce or do away completely with CES involvement in the unemployment benefit program or, if that is not possiblethe Norgard Committee recognised that it might not be impossible- at least require only from the CES the initial registration with the CES and leave the unemployment benefit process in the hands of the Department of Social Security. In conclusion, we have before us a Bill which is not an appropriate response to the Norgard Committee's proposals. It is better than nothing but it is not the sort of thing this country should expect as a major response in a period in which the absolute number of unemployed is greater than at any time in this society. 
I think that the most perceptive words that have been uttered on the recent changes in health costs were uttered by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  five weeks ago. On 1 1 April, chiding my colleague the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  and accusing him of being clairvoyant, he indicated clearly that he was not clairvoyant when in relation to health costs he said: 
I am not aware of any predetermined view of the Prime Minister or any other Minister at this stage. 
I suggest that the most charitable interpretation that can be made is that the Minister for Health is still not aware of the predetermined views of the Prime Minister on health costs. Otherwise, how does one explain the incomplete, ill conceived, half-baked set of measures that have been dribbling out through the week- Medibank mark 2 as it has been derisively called in the Press? How else can we explain the kind of buildup that we had and then the proposals that we got? How can we explain the fact that even today new bits are dribbling out, new threats have been made? 
One of the difficulties therefore is that it is almost impossible for the Opposition to make any overall assessment of what is being done to Medibank mark 2.I do not suppose that worries the Government very much but the community is in exactly the same position. It does not know what is happening to the Medibank schemes because there was one batch of announcements in Parliament and new proposals were dribbled out over the next few days. Let it be clearly said that it is the Minister who is creating panic in the community by the inept and clumsy methods with which all the announcements have been handled. I had considerable respect for the Minister until last week. It is difficult for me even to believe that he himself adheres to many of the proposals he is putting forward. Only five weeks ago, with reference to front end deductibles and similar schemes, the Minister said: 
It is true to say that we have not yet a really accurate statistical profile from the time when changes were made on 1 October 1976 to be able to make some of the more radical changes that have been put to us by people who have written to us and are referred to in some of the opinions spelt out in this paper. 
That is, the Government did not have the information to make changes like introducing front end deductible schemes, five weeks ago. It is true that it is impossible to make any accounting at the front end deductibles announced in the Ministerial Statement. But we now have the proposals for which five weeks ago the Minister said he did not have statistical information to make. There is no evidence in any of the documents he provides of new statistical information to provide the profile that he talked about as being necessary. When the Sax report came in some weeks ago the Minister gave a reasonably sympathetic response to that document. Yet of the four concrete proposals he put before the Parliament in his statement two of them are clearly rejected by the Sax Commission. Two of them it recommends; the other two are rejected. I am beginning to think that for the learned men who write reports for this Government, that if they want their views accepted they should argue against them. The chances are very good indeed that the proposals argued against would be accepted by this regime. 
Finally, and I do it because I was provoked by the Minister's speech, I shall read two paragraphs from the  Australian Financial Review: 

 Mr Hunt's statement characterised all the worst aspects of contemporary politics in Australia. It was an insult to the intelligence of the electorate. It did not address itself to the problems of health costs, even as they have been identified by  Mr Hunt  himself in his more honest moments. 
It reeked of cowardice in taking the hucksters' advice of being structured to mislead and in being unprepared to come to grips with the two major areas of cost increase, medical practitioner exploitation of the system and woefully inefficient hospital administration. 
I must say that, given much of the Minister's speech in the House today, the same words apply to the early part of his address. 
Let me take up the one point about spiralling health costs. The interesting thing about spiralling health costs, as the Minister's own documents prove, is that such costs are something that every advanced industrial society has suffered in the 1970s and, unless I am mistaken, they did not all have Whitlam Governments. It is a universal problem which cannot be explained away by attacking the Whitlam Government. Again, the Minister asks the Opposition what we wanted. Clearly, two of the things we want are, firstly, a real investigation, a real tackling of the way in which the system has been exploited by the medical profession- as the Minister himself acknowledges and, secondly, a very serious consideration of the hospital situation. I know that in his statement there are a series of remarks or proposals as hospitals but they are vague, vacuous and ill-defined, and already they are producing enormous conflict. They are not concrete proposals for change in that field. 
It is important that we be clear about what the Government is doing. That means first looking briefly at Medibank Mk II because this week's events are the second stage whereby a simple, efficient, universal, equitable and comprehensive health scheme is gradually being destroyed. We need to look at what was done in the first stage and then at what has been done in the last week. I quote from the Minister's statement this week: 
Those changes- 
That is the changes of the 1 October 1 976-  . . have already resulted in a decline in the rate of acceleration in health costs. 
There is just no reliable evidence to sustain that claim. There has been a deceleration in costs. We all admit that. I think this primarily arose from economic changes in the economy as a whole. But the Minister is arguing that those very Medibank modifications have led to the deceleration. If we are honest we have to say that we just do not know. I am not saying that they have not done so but, on all the evidence provided to honourable members by the Minister, we just do not know. Indeed, even the meaning of the single, specific piece of evidence advanced- that there has been a fall in the use of medical services per person- is debatable. Might it be just a fluctuation against the trend, as occurred in 1973-74? Is it due to the modifications, or is it due to other factors?  Dr Sax,  who had all this information before him, exactly the same information as the Minister has, concluded: 
Whether utilisation rates have changed recently is not known, except again for the conventional wisdom which is that elective surgery is being deferred. 
Quite possibly these movements occur for general economic reasons having nothing whatsoever to do with the changes made in the health scheme in October 1976. 
Why do honourable members not know what is occurring? Why does  Dr Sax  not know? Why does the Minister not know? For the reason that he laments every time he stands up in the House, the statistics are not available, and they are not available because of the changes that were made in October 1976. That is why we have not got the information to make major changes to our health schemes. Again,  Dr Sax  makes this point: 
The opting out arrangement provided in October 1 976 has deprived the authorities of the automatic acquisition of this information for more than one-third of all medical services. 
It is not just a lack of adequate medical information. The whole thrust of the changes in October 1976 was to make health provision less simple and less efficient. I quote  Dr Sax  again: 
The changes did so at some cost to simplicity and efficiency. 
Any changes in simplicity, making schemes more complex and less efficient, are clear ways of raising the costs of those schemes. All the evidence we have is that if you make a scheme more complicated and less efficient you raise the costs. 
The way the Government did it meant that we are returning rapidly to the bad old preMedibank days. It produced again a whole clutter of competing private organisations- and the troubles this week have very much derived from that- and added to total administrative costs. For instance, the cost of Medibank administration in 1975, when it covered everyone, was exactly the same as it was a year later when it covered only one-third of the population. Administrative costs have been pushed up by the changes in October 1976. The elaborate procedures that are now involved in checking eligibility as a result of the opting out procedures, as with unemployment checks, for instance, will be more costly than the gains made. And the Government is going to add to that by the abolition of one of the most administratively efficient aspects of the whole scheme. It is going to remove bulk billings. I shall quote from the man who knows most about bulk billing, the Deputy General Manager of Medibank. He said: 
There is no substance in the claim that bulk billing contributes to over-servicing. Direct billing patients seem to get fewer services than others and fraud is more easily detected. 
-That is a splendid response; that the man who is the Deputy General Manager of the organisation knows less about it than do the members of the Parliament. That is a measure of the arrogance- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 11 May 1978: 
1 ) When and by how much were the following benefits and allowances last increased; (a) the supplementary benefit (rent allowance); (b) the additional benefit for children and (c) the rate of guardian 's or mother's allowance. 
When was the amount of income which a pensioner can receive and still be entitled to a maximum pension last increased. 
When was the level at which a pensioner ceased to be eligible for the Health Benefits Card last amended. 
It is impossible for even the most philistine of honourable members to avoid the international impact of recent Australian films. The Australian film industry is experiencing a renaissance, although still fragile and still uncertain. The past week in Cannes, for example, has reflected both an awareness of the new stature of Australian films and also a recognition of the difficulties faced by an infant industry which is trying to break into the profitable international markets. Nevertheless, it is true to say that Australian films such as  Caddie, Picnic at Hanging Rock, Storm Boy, The Last Wave,  and now the  The Chant of Jimmie Blacksmith  and  Newsfront  have done more in the past two years for the international reputation of this country than have all the travels of Ministers opposite. As Alan Seymour writes: 
The political and social earnings from such films, though apparently intangible, may in the long run be the better for our acceptance in the international community than immediate money in the bank. 
A major contribution to this revival of the Australian film industry has been made by Film Australia, the production arm of the Australian Film Commission. Film Australia has acted as a nursery, a training ground, for many of the talents that now distinguish the Austraiian film revival. Early this year that nursery, Film Australia, requested the approval of the Australian Film Commission for funds amounting to $550,000 for the making of a film based on David Ireland's novel  The Unknown Industrial Prisoner.  This novel won the Miles Franklin award in 1976 and has been described as 'easily the best novel ever written in Australia on the problems of urban, industrial workers'. If the novel is tough on the multinational companies, it is equally severe on the trade unions. The script for the film was written by Alan Seymour, a controversial and successful Australian playwright. I have read the film script but I make no pretext to aesthetic judgment. But an actor whose judgment I respect has told me that it is a superb actor's script. 
-Noel Ferrier. That is a rarity in Australian cinema. All who know the contemporary Australian film and television industry will recognise that the great weakness lies in the realm of scripts. The Australian Film Commission sent the script to nine assessors, including many of the most able and successful figures in the Australian film industry. Not one of the nine assessors recommended that the film not go into production. I repeat- nowhere in the statements made to this House by the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  will honourable members find this fact- that not one of the nine assessors recommended that the film not go into production. 
I could go through them, taking them from the list I have here, but at this stage I want to spend the three minutes remaining to me in finishing my speech. Given these assessments, the Australian Film Commission, with one commissioner absent, gave unanimous approval to the project. On 13 April the Minister requested reconsideration with specific reference to commercial viability. Fred Schepsi, who is perhaps the most respected of Australian film makers, and Jim McElroy were requested to reassess the film script with specific reference to commercial viability. They did so, and both of them thought that the film should proceed. In the third week of April the Australian Film Commission met and by a vote of four to one decided- this is contained in a letter sent by the  Chairman  of the Commission to the Minister- as follows:   . . with the impressive nature of the idea and the quality of the script it remained satisfied that the usual requirements which it has in mind in looking at the national program were met. 
This next part takes up the point made by the Minister 
With the exception of  Mr Burke  ... the Commission saw that the film was different, from any film so far made by Australians and that the marketing aspects were difficult to assess. However, with the script lightened at the key points, with the casting proposals audience attractive, and with the audience still being attracted to the Australian product, it was well worth continuing. 
Despite this reaffirmation by the Commission, despite a professional vote of fourteen to one in favour of the production- that vote was taken by the assessors and the members of the Commissionthe Minister vetoed the project. 
I put these facts before the House because they have never been placed before it previously. The long answer given by the Minister to a question asked on 2 May 1 978 avoided nearly all of the critical points. It was a demeaning statement, to both the Minister and the House. It was contemptible in both style and substance. In style it was that of the vaudeville clown playing to the philistines; in substance it strung together a collection of quotations, which were selective and out of context, in order to hide from this House the overwhelming professional verdict in favour of the film. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER 
 (Mr Drummond) Order! It being 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The question is: 'That grievances be noted '. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. According to the official guidelines of the Department of Social Security, and I quote from section 7, sub-section 101, of" the Department's Manual of Instructions, 'the test whether a person is self-employed or unemployed is applied realistically'. What is meant by 'realistically' in this context? What criteria are applied to determine whether a person who was previously selfemployed is now unemployed? Are the previously self-employed required to do any or all of the following in order to qualify for the unemployment benefit: Firstly, cease advertising for work; secondly, surrender licences which give them self-employed status; and thirdly, sell their equipment and tools? 
-The second reading speech to the National Health Amendment Bill delivered yesterday by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  was in many ways very odd. The proclaimed and obstensible object of the Bill is to reduce health costs. Ever since I have been in the Parliament- for the past six months- we have been told about this impending legislation whose object was to reduce health costs in this country. Yet the bulk of the Minister's second reading speech was devoted to how the Government planned to add a further $7m to the health bill by the provision to assist persons who live in isolated areas to obtain specialist medical treatment. 1 welcome that expenditure to assist such people. Indeed, I think that a notable inequity has been defined and action has been taken to deal with it. I am not sure that I approve of the rather monstrously bureaucratic plan by which it will be implemented. I certainly think that the details of the proposal will need to be looked at. Nevertheless, the main thrust of the Bill is supposedly to cut the spiralling cost of health in this country. If any member of the public read the Minister's second reading speech, he would never guess that that was the intention of the legislation. A few thousand people a year will be affected by the outback provisions. Probably a quarter of a million people a year will be affected by the abandoning of bulk billing for all but eligible pensioners. Again, the public would never guess this discrepancy from the balance of the Minister's speech. The tax, in effect, of every Australian paying the health levy goes up as a result of the reduced returns through the coinsurance proposals of the Bill. But again, the Australian public would never guess that from the balance of the Minister's speech. 
I think at best the Minister's speech yesterday was incongruous and at worst hypocritical. I confess that on the evidence of recent weeks the latter from this Minister would not be unexpected. The whole operation behind these measures has been described already by one leading national newspaper as an exercise in professional hypocrisy. The Minister continued yesterday the practice of which he was justly condemned a fortnight ago; that is, 'treating the question of health policy solely as a public relations exercise in minimising political damage, using some transparently dishonest means of doing so'. 
It might be argued that this is an unfair description of the Minister's speeches, that he devoted much space to the outback provisions of the Bill and to the problems of  Dr Milan  Brych because in his various preliminary speeches and utterances which have been orchestrated over several months he had already dealt fully and completely with the problems of co-insurance, bulk billing and front end deductibles. Therefore he would only bore us by dealing with those issues again and so he took new issues which disguised the thrust of the Bill. 
However, that excuse which some honourable members seem to wish to offer for the Minister neglects utterly the widespread and cogent criticisms directed at his announcements of 24 May 1978, criticisms not made simply from the Opposition but from the Australian Medical Association, the private health insurers and many social welfare groups. Let me take up some of those criticisms raised following the last major statement by the Minister on 24 May and not answered in the second reading speeches of the Minister yesterday. What response is made in these measures to accommodate the criticism that at least 800,000 social security beneficiaries will be excluded from bulk billing? What response does the Bill make to the prediction of the Victorian secretary of the AMA that doctors would not co-operate in any scheme giving them only 75 per cent of the scheduled fee in full payment? If the answer to this is that the Bill now provides interestingly enough an 85 per cent refund on bulk billing for eligible pensioners, what are the implications of these medical attitudes for the ineligible poor? Will the private funds reduce contribution rates as indicated by the Minister on 24 May or will they behave as predicted by the  president  of Voluntary Health Insurance of Australia?  Mr Moon  said that they would not be reduced. How does the Minister respond to the widespread accusation that the continuation of gap insurance will simply permit the well off to be fully compensated for medical service while the less well off will be penalised? Does the Minister yet have any response to the claim of the secretary-general of the AMA that front end de-, ductibles will simply 'shift the burden of cost to the poorest and the sickest*? 
All of these issues were raised following the statement of the Minister delivered on 24 May. Not one of them was answered in the Minister's speeches delivered on 6 June. The issues were evaded under a smokescreen of the outback provision which I applaud, the anti-Brych clauses and the opting out provisions for Australians living overseas. The Minister's speeches yesterday were structured, as the  Australian Financial Review  noted of his 24 May statement, 'in a deliberately deceptive fashion'. 
I want to attend this evening to the central issues and the implications of these measures, issues and implications ignored by the Minister in his speeches. We have heard ad nauseam from the Government and honourable members opposite about the spiralling cost of health services in this country, a rise which has occurred in nearly all advanced industrial societies in the 1970s. But we have heard much less from honourable members opposite about the sources of this rise and been given much less in the way of any analysis of the causes of the escalating costs. I think that when I have finished my speech, the reasons for that sort of silence from honourable members opposite will be obvious. What are- I can afford only a brief span on thisthe chief sources of the rise in health costs in 
Australia? Above all, the greatest rises have occurred in the hospital sphere mainly because of the massive increase in costs per patient. 
-One of the reasons for it was the wages and salary rises paid to hospital staff, particularly nurses and lay staff, after a century of neglect. I make no apology for those rises. After a century of neglect, nurses and lay staff in hospitals began to get what was their due. Secondly, sophisticated technology in hospitals has caused the cost per patient to rise. Thirdly, there has been a rise in the ratio of staff to patients. These factors have added to this major problem of the cost per patient. In addition, in the last decade there has been a marginal but steady increase in hospital admissions. 
A second cause of the cost escalation has been much greater community expectations about access to the latest medical technology and no doubt financial incentives to doctors to recommend the use of such technology. Let me say to the Government that I believe it has begun to deal at least with the fringes of this problem in the action that it took in respect of pathology services and in these measures insofar as they deal with screening services. 
A third major reason for the rise has been the fairly significant increase in doctor's fees over this period. Finally, we have a rise in the utilisation of medical services. When we talk about the rise in the utilisation of medical services, it is the provider of the service- the doctor- who is the chief initiator of increased utilisation. The original visit by the patient is patient initiated. But all of the consequent actions- further consultations, specialist referrals, diagnostic servicesare doctor initiated and doctor generated. If we look at the figures, we see that it is the area of doctor-generated utilisation of services which has risen most rapidly in recent years. This is where the greatest acceleration has occurred. 
It is difficult to calculate, but we know that only a very small proportion of total costs are derived from patient-initiated activity. The estimates vary from about 5 per cent to 10 per cent of the total health bill. Yet all of these much vaunted measures which have been talked about for six months and over which the Government has cogitated probably for two years as to how to control health costs, deal with none of these major problems except the last- that minor problem produced by patient-initiated services. The great bulk of the problems is ignored by these measures which are supposed to represent a major step forward in dealing with spiralling costs. 1 think it is for this reason that this supposedly ambitious effort to contain costs produces such pathetic results. According to the Minister for Health, in his statement of 24 May, these measures will save $24m. Then again, in this particular measure there is - 

 Dr BLEWETT Yes, as we were told last week, I think it represents roughly the cost of one VIP plane. In addition to the saving of $24m, another $10m will be saved through the screening provisions in these measures. I am not quite sure whether the Minister's estimate includes allowance for the extra cost which will be incurred as a result of the abandonment of bulk billing. Certainly the Minister puts the cost at $7m. My information is that the minimum extra administrative costs arising from the abandonment of bulk billing will be about $ 10m. As part of that amount, approximately 700 extra staff will be necessary to deal with a much more complicated system of handling payments which will result from the abandonment of bulk billing. Again, the amount of $24m, which the Minister gave us on that previous occasion, does not allow for the $7m now to be paid out in outback allowances. So, it is a bit hard to calculate, but the savings of these much vaunted major schemes to deal with what we all admit is a massive problem- a bill of $6,000m-will be between $17m and $24m. Even those savings are highly disputable given the reaction of many of the authorities- the Australian Medical Association and the private insurers- to this measure. 
It is obvious that cost containment is scarcely the object of the exercise, if that is all the savings it will achieve. What are the real objectives of this operation? First of all, I suggest that it is aimed at a shifting of the burden from the public sphere to the private sphere, which as one sees when one examines it, involves basically a shifting of the burden from the healthy and better-off to the sick and the poor. Secondly, in many ways it is a surrender to certain ideological and interest group pressures. Bulk billing, which is one of the objects of this operation, has always been antipathetic to conservative members of the AMA. They have opposed it from its introduction. Even before they knew what effect it might have, they were opposed to that particular procedure. Of course, it has been disliked by the private insurers because it has given Medibank a competitive edge on most of them. 
Certainly, there does not seem to be very much evidence of cost containment in this bulk billing proposal. Let us look at the evidence. The Minister's argument is: 
The Government has decided that bulk or direct billing arrangements for medical benefits be abolished except for people with pensioner health benefit entitlements. This should reduce the over provision of services and fraud. 
Yet no evidence in support of that assertion has been presented in this House by the Minister or by any members of his Party. Indeed, rather the opposite has occurred. If we look at the reports which have been presented the average claims for bulk billed patients are less and the average number of services are less than for non-bulk billed patients. Moreover fraud seems to be more easily detected through the computer processes associated with the bulk billing procedures. I shall quote again- on a previous occasion the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodgman)  seemed to object to my quotation- from a statement which is reported to have been made by the  Deputy  General Manager of Medibank,  Mr Bob  Wilcox, who contradicts the Minister on this point. He is reported to have said: 
There is no substance in the claim that it contributes to over-servicing. Direct billing patients seemed to get fewer services than others. And fraud is more easily detected. 
We know also that a report about bulk billing has been prepared within the Department. There has been an examination of this issue. That report has never been issued. I suspect that the  Deputy  General Manager of Medibank has seen the report and drawn his conclusions from it. If my assumption is incorrect, let us see the arguments and evidence contained in this internal report 
Again, front-end deductibles reveal that the primary concern is not cost containment. One of the chief ministerial laments in the last six months- I sympathise with the Minister- is that the Minister does not have the statistical evidence to deal with the problem of health costs -to deal with overall planning as to what is to be done about these problems. He is waiting on the statistics. This lament occurs frequently. Frontend deductibles will in fact make the whole statistical problem far more difficult. Indeed, deductibles may make the collecting of adequate statistics impossible if it is adopted by a lot of people. If this happens there will be no statistical information on those people who use the frontend deductible system. There will be no check on them until they pass over the limits of their frontend deductibles. Therefore, the collection of statistics, which is already a problem, will simply become a more difficult problem with the introduction of front-end deductibles. 
On all this evidence, what the Government is involved in is not an exercise in cost containment; it is an exercise in mutilation and destruction. Medibank Mark  2Vi  represents one further step in this Government's determination to destroy Medibank. Medibank Mark 2V4 represents one further step whereby a simple, efficient, universal, equitable and comprehensive health scheme is gradually being undermined. I think that there is a real danger in this society that we might ultimately produce two health schemes: One with a whole range of choices and options for the well off and another rather limited second rate scheme for those people less well off. That is the danger towards which we are moving with these kinds of developments. 
Finally, I want briefly to look at each of the major changes about which I have been talking in terms of the Sax criteria.  Dr Sax  suggested that we should judge changes to the health plan by simplicity, efficiency, equity and comprehensiveness. It does seem to me that we should apply these principles.  Dr Sax  argued in favour of them because we are all concerned with efficiency. He argued for simplicity because the overwhelming evidence is that the more complicated we make schemes the more they lead to inequities. We have seen that throughout social welfare services and other services in this country. At least we on this side of the chamber support equity and comprehensiveness. I am not sure about the views of the Government on equity and comprehensiveness. Let us take first of all the widening of the gap. This clearly is simple because it carries on the present scheme but makes the gap wider, although already a complication has been added because the Minister has been forced, at the moment at least, to distinguish between two moieties- 25 per cent for most people and 1 5 per cent for pensioners. 
It is argued that this change will produce efficiency; that it will in some way reduce overutilisation. Canada tried this experiment. There did seem to be some immediate results but the evidence seems to indicate that this efficiency did not prevail over time although there were some short run advantages. With respect to equity, the proposal does seem to be inequitable because the new provisions seem unlikely to deter the welltodo but will place an excessive burden on the average family man. Then there is the question of universality. Who will be deterred by these provisions? Will it be the trivial hypochondriacs or will it be the poor sick? If it is the latter, the costs may well go up in the long run because of the cost of treating those people at a later stage. Again, even if there were some gains in efficiency by these proposals, they would be immediately undercut by the decision to continue gap insurance- indeed, I believe to extend gap insurance as I understand that Medibank Private will now move into the field of gap insurance. This proposal to undercut the procedures has been very clearly condemned in the Discussion Paper on Paying for Health Care put out by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission: 
One of the reasons for proposing increases in co-insurance and co-payments, and the introduction of deductibles, is to induce an awareness among patients and their doctors that prices should be brought into consideration when decisions are being taken about the relative benefits and costs of particular investigations and treatments. 
That is something which the Government wants to do. The Report continued: 
This particular economic incentive can be ended by insurance against out-of-pocket costs due to co-insurance, copayments and deductibles. Such insurance should be discouraged. Registered benefit organisations should not offer it. 
One part of the Government's scheme is contradicted by the other part. At this stage I ask the Government to reconsider each of these proposals in terms of efficiency, equity, simplicity and universality. I believe that whilst they may mean marginal gains in efficiency, they are inequitable and threaten the universality of the current schemes. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It concerns those public radio stations presently licensed under the Wireless Telegraphy Act and due shortly to come before the Broadcasting Tribunal for licensing hearings. Will the Department of Post and Telecommunications be allowed to pass on to the Tribunal reports of complaints received about those stations right up to the time of the hearing? If so, would this put complainers at a considerable advantage over people who wish to make commendations and who, under the provisions of the Act, must meet a deadline some six weeks or so before the hearing? 
-Let me say, first of all, that I wish to congratulate the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  that in arguing the issue of optional deductibles he has argued for the basic principle on grounds primarily of efficiency and cost reduction. Unlike some of his colleagues, he has not sought to pervert the argument about the principles with which we are concerned. The Labor Party, in opposing optional deductibles, is opposing the principle on the grounds that it compromises the equity of our schemes and threatens their universality. If we can maintain the argument at that level, that is the problem both sides face, rather than some of the perversions that have been introduced in the last half hour. 
Let me say that the dilemma of front end deductibles is one of how to make them sufficiently attractive to pull people in without at the same time imposing very heavy costs on those who wish to remain in a full cover within a scheme. 
The Blue Cross organisations in the United States of America have experimented with a range of optional deductibles in recent years and increasingly they have moved to abandon them because of this dilemma. It is clear from the Minister's guidelines that he does not want to make optional deductibles too attractive because that would create problems. So there will be limits on how far companies can go with their deductibles. I think it is this basic dilemma that has made many of the private insurers rather unhappy at the moment. 
Secondly, deductibles produce a problem of equity. It is quite clear that there are two groups in the community who, on the whole, can take a risk with deductibles. They are the healthy and the wealthy. The healthy can take the risk. They can gamble on maintaining their health and therefore can take a deductible scheme. The wealthy can also take the risk because if something catastrophic happens at least they have considerable resources to meet the payments. On the other hand, the poor and the sick should in a sense be encouraged not to opt for deductibles. There is a danger for the people who are sick or likely to be sick and of course there is a major danger for the poor if they take out a deductible. But if we encourage many people to take up such schemes, universality would be threatened. If deductibles are made attractive and become terribly successful, if they attract both the poor and other people who take risks with illness, universality may have to be compromised. People may be so attracted by the deductible that they take the risk. As  Mr Moon  from the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia said, these people take a gamble. It is an extremely dangerous gamble because it may leave them in a very severe financial situation. 
For these three reasons I think there is a major problem, a major dilemma, for the private insurers. They have to try to work out a scheme which is attractive but does not place too great a burden on them if they desire full cover. Secondly, there is a major threat to equity because the deductible scheme will really attract the healthy and the wealthy, reducing their costs but placing higher costs on the poor and the sick. Thirdly, there is a problem that if the scheme is made particularly attractive it might compromise the universality of health cover in this country. Those are the reasons why we are worried and concerned about optional deductibles. I hope we can maintain the argument about those principles and not in the way in which I think it has been distorted in recent minutes. 
I support my colleague, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West),  in opposing the principles embodied in clause 5 of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill. The explicit objection is not so much to increasing the moiety or to increasing the maximum; I think the objection relates to the fact of this increase coupled with gap insurance on the one side and the abolition of bulk billing on the other side. In the pursuit of efficiency and cost cutting the Government has produced a highly inequitable proposal. The gap insurance provisions will enable those people who can afford gap insurance- those people who work for the private insurers- to cover the increase. At the same time bulk billing will be abolished and many sections of social security beneficiaries those estimated 800,000 people who do not lit into the definition of eligible at the moment- will suddenly have this increase imposed upon them. So the efficiency proposals are highly inequitable and will enable the well-off to cover themselves with gap insurance, which almost certainly will now be extended. On the other side, the abolition of bulk billing will throw many poor people into the situation of having to pay these increases. 
A further feature of clause 5 which worries me is the implication of proposed new sub-section (2a) (c). We note that under that provision eligible pensioners who will still be able to benefit from bulk billing will receive a medical benefit of 85 per cent. I have worries, therefore, about what will happen to the ineligible poor people. Some weeks ago the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  was rather confident that the medical profession would be prepared in those cases to accept 75 per cent as full payment. It seems to be indicated in the Bill that in the situation of bulk billing 85 per cent will be demanded. Will doctors accept 75 per cent of the fee from the ineligible poor- those people who do not qualify for bulk billing- or in fact are doctors not prepared to accept that lower figure? Does the fact that 85 per cent is mentioned in this clause mean that the optimistic hopes of the Minister will not be realised in relation to the ineligible poor- all those people on social security benefits who do not come within the definition of eligibility? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Department of Social Security, Manual of Instructions, Section 7, subsection 101, issued March 1978, states that the test whether a person is selfemployed or unemployed is applied realistically. 
If so, what is meant by 'realistically 'in this context. 
What criteria are applied to determine whether a person who was previously self-employed is now unemployed. 
) Are the previously self-employed required to do any or all of the following in order to qualify for the unemployment benefit: (a) cease advertising for work; (b) surrender licences which give them self-employed status and (c) sell their equipment and tools. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 10 April 1978: 
1 ) What was the time and location of each of the 40 or more violent incidents involving the use of explosives that occurred in Australia during the last 15 years and which were mentioned by him in his  Sir Robert  Menzies lecture. 
In these incidents how many persons (i) were killed and (ii) were injured and what was the extent of property damage. 
3 ) In how many of these incidents have there been arrests and convictions. 
How many persons were convicted in relation to these incidents. 
I want to raise an issue that I think is of general interest to all members of this House, that is, the inadequacy of certain ministerial answers to questions on notice. I want to do so with specific reference to an answer given to me by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  On 10 April I asked the following question: 
1 ) What was the time and location of each of the 40 or more violent incidents involving the use of explosives that occurred in Australia during the last IS years and which were mentioned by him in his  Sir Robert  Menzies lecture. 
In these incidents how many persons (i) were killed and (ii) were injured and what was the extent of property damage. 
In how many of these incidents have there been arrests and convictions. 
How many persons were convicted in relation to these incidents. 
I did not ask this question in order to provide employment for the bureaucracy. I asked it in the general context of the Government's reaction to the tragic events that occurred at the Hilton Hotel on 1 3 February. I also asked it with specific reference to the remarks of the Prime Minister in the  Sir Robert  Menzies lecture in which he referred to 40 or more violent incidents involving the use of explosives which have occurred in Australia during the last 1 5 years. 
Again, I did not ask the question for some explicit or implicit partisan reason but because I believe that this Parliament needs such hard facts in order to debate intelligently and sensibly the security options open to it and to this country. At the end of July I received a two-paragraph answer from the Prime Minister which appears on page 300 of  Hansard  of 15 August 1978. There is no need to read out that answer as it contains very little information of value. I do not mind waiting three months to get an answerone understands the inquiries that are necessary- but I do object to waiting three months and then getting an answer without any substance. If honourable members look at what the Prime Minister said they will find that the answer contains not one explicit response to the four questions I asked. The bulk of the answer is devoted to explaining why the Prime Minister used this reference in his Menzies lecture, but this was not the question I asked. 
The answer contained only one new fact, a fact previously unknown to members of this Parliament, and that is that there is a confidential Commonwealth Police Force publication entitled 'Politically Motivated Violence and Vandalism in Australia 1963-1978'. Apart from that single fact, I, and I believe any other member of this House, could have written that answer on the night the question was asked. I do not believe that is good enough for this Parliament. The Parliament needs information on the nature and extent of the terrorist threat in this country and the success or otherwise of existing forces in coping with these problems. 
Let me give some good reasons why this Parliament needs the information requested in question No. 900. First, this Parliament will soon be faced with proposals to create an Australian Federal police force. There was a joint announcement on 28 July by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  and the late Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  concerning the Government's intention to legislate in this matter. Moreover, in that statement the planned creation of the Australian Federal police force was said to be in part due to 'the considerable increase in the number of crimes against the Commonwealth and the number of crimes of violence of a political nature '. For this Parliament to assess that justification and the adequacy of the proposals suggested we need the facts requested in question No. 900. What is the real extent of the problem in our society? What is the hard information? What is the record of existing police forces in coping with the problem? These are some of the reasons why we need the information sought. 
Another reason is that we will be required in the months ahead to assess some of the other recommendations made in the report by  Sir Robert  Mark. For instance, one recommendation is that State forces should take over the policing of Federal territories and airports. Again, we need the kind of information asked for to make assessments about that recommendation. Moreover, it is interesting to note that  Sir Robert  Mark himself indicated clearly that in Britain the very information I requested is made publicly available so that there can be an informed discussion in the Parliament and in the community. In a television interview  Sir Robert  Mark said: 
We had, I think, a total of 302 devices in my time as Commissioner. That was from 1973 until 1976 and we had 57 people killed and of course several hundred injured. But we arrested- in the whole country- we arrested about 148 people and charged them with terrorism. 
Well so far as London is concerned, the clean up rate of all terrorist incidents is about 68 per cent to 70 per cent. 
Again, that kind of information which is available in England and which is recognised as necessary for parliamentary consideration of these issues is the same kind of information I requested in question No. 900. Further, Parliament will be required to evaluate the Hope review on protective security. There was a whole range of issues which  Mr Justice  Hope was required to look at in that review and to adequately assess his review this Parliament will need information on the extent and location of acts of political violence in this society and the success or otherwise of existing forces and, perhaps, the judicial system in coping with these acts. 
Therefore, I would like to request that the Prime Minister either provides a precise response to the queries raised in question No. 900- that is, a set of answers - 
I raised it with the Prime Minister simply because he had referred to the issue in his Menzies Lecture and I believed it fell within his responsibility. I would like him to provide either a precise response to the question raised- and I believe from his answer that the information requested is available- or to release the police report 'Politically Motivated Violence and Vandalism in Australia 1963-78*. I recognise that it is a confidential report and that in these delicate and difficult matters there may be elements of the report that could not be released to the Parliament. I would be perfectly happy if we had an edited version which gave the facts required. I can see, however, that it may not be possible to release the report as a whole because of necessarily confidential information. I would be happy if specific answers to the four questions I raised were given or the report or sufficient parts of it were provided so as to inform this Parliament effectively. 
I do not intend to waste my time on the sterile myths which have again been perpetrated upon us. Every time we have a debate about present economic policy we hear these myths about the policy between 1972 and 1975. I am completely confident that in 1980 the Australian people will make a judgment on this Government's hollow economic policies and not on the policies of 1972-75. But one point raised by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  deserves answer. It was his Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who said in 1975 that in three years he would have so changed this economy that everyone who wanted to work would be given an opportunity to work. Now, three years later in his latest Budget, he admits that unemployment will be worse, twice as bad- three years after he has come to power. 
Let us, however, consider this Government's economic measures. The Prime Minister has said: 
This Budget takes its place in the Government's on-going strategy. 
Like most of the Prime Minister's statements, that is mostly nonsense. I will indicate my reasons for saying that tomorrow when I speak to the Budget. In many ways, this Budget repudiates some of the key elements of the Fraser strategy in the past two years. But it does take its place in the Government's on-going strategy insofar as this Budget continues the pursuit of inequality in this society. There is no doubt that it is consistent in that pursuit. 
First, I think we need to admit that Australia is in no way the egalitarian society that is presented in many myths, particularly those put forward by the conservative parties. As my colleague the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  pointed out last night, the top 10 per cent of families in Australia possess 36.5 per cent of total net worth, whilst at the other end of the scale the lowest 20 per cent of families in Australia possess one per cent of total net worth. 
-These are the middle 1970s, and they are regarded as fairly conservative figures. Indeed, I am now going to argue that the disparity has even increased. The Government, in its recent policy, has deliberately pursued the perpetuation and enhancement of that kind of division. 
One means by which this policy has been effected, and ruthlessly pursued, has been through economic policies which deliberately create unemployment. The Government admits that in this Budget it will create the highest level of unemployment that Australia has seen since the Great Depression. The anticipation in the Budget is that in February 1 979 we will surpass the figure of February 1 978. There can be no doubt that this Government welcomes unemployment, and let us have no wishy-washy sentiment such as we had from the honourable member for Barton that somehow it causes him heartbreak that there are so many unemployed. This Government sees the creation of unemployment as a necessary weapon. Let us not pretend about that: Let us give it credit for that. The Government sees it as a necessary weapon for dealing with the economic problems of this country. Although I do not accept that as an adequate response, or a way of solving this country's economic problems, I believe that one can argue that position. But what beggars belief is that with half a million unemployed, the Government should be totally devoid of imagination in proposing any ameliorative measures. 
Let us say that the Government is right, that the creation of unemployment is necessary to get this country back on an economic footing. The other side of that surely demands from the Government an ameliorative response  to the  problems of the unemployed in this society. If that is the Government's policy, as admitted in the Budget, it has a major responsibility to the victims of that policy. But there is a total lack of imagination in the response of this Government to the deep rooted problems of unemployment. If we compare the response to unemployment of the Australian Government with that of every other country of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, we see it as without parallel in lack of imagination. 
Again, the sole contribution of this Budget to the immediate problem of unemployment is to reduce the total to be spent on unemployment benefits in the next 12 months. Despite the Government's recognition that unemployment will increase, the Government will reduce the total to be spent on benefits in the next 12 months. 
Another contribution of the Budget is to refuse to index the benefits of those without dependants, giving them a weekly income that is half that of the recognised figure for the poverty level. The only increase in the unemployment benefits sphere, if it may be called that, is to be in the money spent on hunting out malingerers. That is the kind of emphasis reflected by this Government in response to the immediate problems of unemployment. What a splendid sense of priorities! 
Unemployment is one means whereby the haves have been divided from the have-nots, whereby the structures of inequality in our society have been underwritten. Taxation has been a second means that has been used in the pursuit of this objective. As my colleague the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has pointed out, the tax cuts of February were totally regressive; that is, the more income one had, the bigger the tax cut one got. The result is that with the surcharge introduced in the present Budget, the average man, with an income of up to about $255 a week, has lost all of the advantage of the tax cuts. Of course, those above that figure, the better-off segments of the population, are still better off under the combination of tax cut and surcharge. 
Similarly, the indirect tax rises on beer, spirits and cigarettes, and the duties on petrol, are regressive. They take a much bigger proportion of the smaller income than they do of the larger. Everyone recognises that these types of taxes are regressive. The honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  made the other day what he thought was a clever point: That the last time indirect taxes on beer and cigarettes were increased was in the Hayden Budget of 1 975. But in the 1975 Hayden Budget those indirect taxes were accompanied by the introduction of the rebate system, the most equitable tax change made in this country since the Second World War. We on this side of the House recognise the need to increase taxation in certain fields, and possibly indirect taxes are one source, but we believe that the Budget should balance those with more equitable taxes. What this Budget does is to have regressive indirect taxes accompanied by regressive income tax changes. 
Again, I will not dwell on the petty social security measures of the Budget, which the Press of this country has pretty thoroughly amplified; but let me suggest how the inaction of recent years has further disadvantaged the disadvantaged. Despite inflation, the supplementary benefit, the rent allowance, has not been raised since 1974. Despite inflation, the additional benefit for children has remained unaltered since 1975. Despite inflation, the amount which a pensioner can receive and still be entitled to a maximum pension has not been raised since 1972. Despite inflation, the level at which a pensioner ceases to be eligible for the health benefit card has not been raised since 1973. One result of the failure to alter those levels is that an increasing proportion of pensioners is now receiving pensions at a reduced rate. In fact, in the last two years there has been a 20 per cent increase in the number of those who receive only the reduced rate. Again, there has been an increasing proportion of old age pensioners without the health benefit card. There has been between 1975 and 1977 an increase of almost 30 per cent in their numbers. That has been as a result of the inaction of this Government. 
Finally and briefly, because of the limited time left to me, I want to say a little about one other change, the contortions about Medibank. It is almost impossible for anyone to follow the gymnastics of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  on the question of Medibank. But one point can be made, namely, that practically every change made to Medibank has had two underlying purposes. One purpose has been to create two types of medical services in this country: One system for the less well off and another system, with lots of choices and opportunities, for the better off. Secondly, the tax impact of nearly all of the changes in the medical system have been inegalitarian in that they have increasingly moved towards a system under which the same payment is made by people, irrespective of their income, for the same services. That in fact is a redistributive measure against the less well off. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 31 May 1978: 
1 ) What research facilities exist within the Department of Social Security for monitoring and evaluating the social impact of policies administered by that Department. 
Are all the major programs of the Department monitored and evaluated by these research facilities; if not, which programs are monitored and evaluated. 
How many staff are employed in these facilities. 
What was the total cost of these facilities in 1 976-77. 
5 ) What is the total estimated expenditure on these facilities in 1977-78. 
I direct my question to the Acting Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is the Minister able to explain why in the revised guidelines for the Community Youth Support Scheme, funds are not available to local committees for radio, television or Press advertising of project facilities and activities? Is it a fact that this restriction imposes severe difficulties on local committees in their efforts to communicate with the young unemployed? 
I want tonight to direct my critical remarks at the aid program of the Australian Government but want to say first of all that my remarks are meant to refer to the philosophy and the emphasis of the program and not to individual projects on the ground. I was privileged in July to visit Bangladesh and to see individual agricultural projects at Ishurdi and Baghabari Ghat and to see road building work in the Chittagong Hills. 
Though the Australians working on these projects often cover their idealism with an outwardly and perhaps necessarily tough veneer of cynicism, all Australians can be proud of the enthusiasm, dedication and expertise which these Australians bring to their work. Overall Australia's aid program must increasingly be regarded as disappointing and at times embarrassingly so. For instance, to discover that in much of South Asia, distant Canada or European and Scandinavian nations are making a much more significant contribution than Australia, which is on the periphery of the Asian world, is deeply disturbing. As with many of the policies of this Government, I am afraid that aid is often more a matter of posture than of substance. As with the other policies of this Government, the aid achievement of the Fraser Government falls distinctly behind the achievement of the Whitlam Government. 
The developed nations made a moral commitment at the beginning of this decade to aim at devoting 0.7 per cent of their gross national product to overseas aid. That certainly was only a moral commitment. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  recently reaffirmed his commitment to work towards the aid target of 0.7 per cent of our GNP. What is the actual achievement? It is true that there has been an increase in the Budget for the coming year of about 8.7 per cent but the total allocation of development assistance in 1978-79 represents an estimate of only 0.45 per cent of GNP, well below the target figure of 0.7 per cent to be aimed at for the decade. At the rate of progress of this Government over the past three years we will be into the next century before the target figure is reached unless there is a dramatic increase. By contrast, under the Whitlam Government the target was resolutely pursued and in the last year of that Government we had reached the figure of 0.6 per cent of GNP being devoted to overseas aid. 
-These are the figures provided in the Minister's own statement. I suggest that he look at the 1 975 figures in his statement. 
-The Minister should have corrected them in his publications. Since then there has been a falling away, a failure of resolution in some ways. Of course, this has occurred in every advanced industrial society. I am not saying that there has been a falling away in 
Australia alone. Every advanced industrial society has tended to fall away a little from the 1974-75 position because of the economic recession. But it is interesting to note that in no single developed society has the proportionate fall been as great as in Australia, on the figures provided in Budget Statement No. 8. 
The result is that of the 17 DAC countries Australia now ranks eighth in terms of aid provided measured as a percentage of gross national product. Of these 1 7 countries only Japan is, with Australia, geographically attached to this area of greatest need- a geographical relation that I think should impose on Australia a special responsibility in the field of overseas aid. Distant Sweden, Norway and the Netherlands all have achieved the target figure of 0.7 per cent of GNP and Canada, Denmark and France all now clearly surpass Australia. But, of course, I agree that we should not relate this issue just to questions of quantitative comparisons. They are only a starting point. We need to look at the quality of aid. Here one of the problems with Australian aid is the bias in the distribution of that aid. Fifty-one per cent, or over half, of our aid next year will go the Papua New Guinea. I recognise that we have a major responsibility to Papua New Guinea, a responsibility which we must continue to bear, although I think that the very fact of that responsibility which countries such as Canada, Sweden and Norway do not have may be a further argument that the proportion of our resources that we devote to overseas aid should be perhaps greater than that of other countries. Our effort should be perhaps exceptional in international terms. 
One of the problems of the bias towards Papua New Guinea in our aid- the fact that over half of it goes to Papua New Guinea- is that it also runs contrary to one of the basic principles of the Development Decade, and that is the urgings of nearly every international body that the advanced societies should give first priority to the least developed of countries. In the scale of development Papua New Guinea is not badly off. The really serious problems of southern Asia lie in countries such as Bangladesh and India. Indeed, I think it would clearly benefit Australia- and also Papua New Guinea- if Australia could play a more active international role in diversifying Papua New Guinea's sources of aid. I admit that the Foreign Minister has been endeavouring in ways to do this. A diversification of sources of aid for Papua New Guinea would enable Australia to pursue a more diversified and imaginative aid program. For instance, our aid to these two countries in southern Asia- to 
Bangladesh, which is one of the poorest countries in the world, and to India, with enormous economic problems- is insignificant as compared with that of Canada. For instance, in 1977-78 India, with a population of 700 million, received in direct bilateral aid from Australia only $2.4m. So there is a problem of the distribution of Australian aid. 
The last point I want to raise is that I am a little worried about the absolute decline in our total multilateral assistance in 1978-79. I realise that this relates mainly to international financial institutions and that the fall results from the pattern of encashment of funds for these institutions. Nevertheless, there is no sign in any of the documents of the central development issue of whether a nation's resources are better directed to multilateral aid rather than bilateral aid. There are very powerful arguments that multilateral aid may be the most effective form of international aid. Certainly it is an argument worth considering, particularly as our proportion devoted to multilateral aid- about 15 per cent- is relatively low. 
For instance, it can be argued that multilateral aid minimises national interest distortions in the delivery of aid. One of the inevitable problems of the provision of aid is that national interest enters into it and may distort the effective distribution of that aid, whereas if it goes through the multilateral institutions- United Nations institutions and other organisations- there is less likelihood of national interest distortions. These organisations are specially organised and designed for aid purposes. They may be much better bodies for delivering international aid than the limited agencies we have in Australia. That is a further reason for considering greater use of multilateral aid or greater devotion of our resources to multilateral aid. It is likely that these international bodies have greater experience and expertise in aid programs which on a dollar for dollar basis wil make for a more effective utilisation of the aid we can provide. 
I realise that other arguments are to be considered against that. There are sometimes the problems of the excessive bureaucracies which are created around these international organisations. But I would like to see much more serious consideration than it appears from the documents with which we were  proved  has yet been given to the debate on multilateral aid as against bilateral aid. Therefore I hope that in the coming years the sorts of points I have made- firstly, about our relative international contribution, considering the specific location of Australia secondly, the problems of the bias in the distribution of our aid; and, thirdly, the issue of bilateral aid as against multilateral aid- will receive increasing consideration by this Government. 
-This Government in its budgeting is given to- in the immortal words of the ex-Treasurer- rather rubbery estimates. The Government and the Treasury gremlins have had extraordinary difficulty in getting their sums right. For the last financial year, 1977-78, most of the critical estimates- most of the estimates necessary for economic policy making- were extraordinarily inaccurate, extraordinarily rubbery. I want to give some examples of this in order to set the context in which this years' social security estimates were drawn up. 
First of all, last year it was predicted that real non-farm gross domestic product, June on June, would grow by over 4 per cent. In fact, it rose by merely half that figure, 2.2 per cent. In the 1977-78 Budget it was predicted that total employment, May on May, would rise by about 4 per cent. It rose scarcely at all; it rose by 0.4 per cent. The Budget predicted that the balance of payments on current account would strengthen; in fact, it deteriorated by $2,500m. The Budget prediction on unemployment was that there would be little or no change. Of course, the number unemployed actually increased by 6 1 ,000. We are all familiar now with the blowing out of the deficit by over $ 1 ,000m. 
This means that we have a Government which is extraordinarily incompetent in its economic predictions. Last year's predictions, without doubt- it is no longer debatable- were elastic, sloppy and rubbery, and this year's predictions appear to be little better. The most extraordinary, although not the largest, underestimate occurs in the estimates for the Department of Social Security. I refer to the estimate of expenditure on the unemployment benefit. In 1977-78, $794m was expended on the unemployment benefit. The estimate of expenditure on this item this year is $784m, that is, $ 10m less than for the preceding year. 
How can the Government explain a $10m decline in estimated expenditure on the unemployment benefit? Firstly, it is now admitted by all Government spokesmen, even the most optimistic of them, that unemployment will get worse before it gets better; that is, during the course of this year the level of unemployment will be worse than it was last year. For practically every month to date, comparing figures month by month, that has been true. Therefore, in the coming year more people will be entitled to receive the unemployment benefit than were entitled to receive it in the past year. Yet the estimate of expenditure on the unemployment benefit is $ 10m less this year than last year. Secondly, at least for a segment of the unemployed there will be indexation increases. We all know that a great majority of the unemployed will not get increases through indexation; nevertheless, a segment of the unemployed will gain increases through indexation. How then can a decline in estimated expenditure on the unemployment benefit be explained? 
Let me, first of all, give due credit to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and/or her Department because she admits that she cannot explain the fudging of the figures. The Department of Social Security is sufficiently honest to say that it cannot explain how that extraordinary figure was produced. Let me prove that statement by referring to that excellent document put out by the Department, namely, the Department's explanatory notes on estimated expenditure. In those explanatory notes one finds an explanation of every increase and decrease in each estimate, with one exception. For instance, one can look up 'widow 's pensions ' and find explanations of an estimated additional cost. One can look up 'supporting mother's benefit' and discover the reasons the Department has set out for increases in that estimate. But when one comes to pages 72 and 73 of this document- that is, the pages dealing with the unemployment benefit- there is a complete silence. It is the only item in the whole of this document for which no explanation is offered. That is because the Department is sufficiently honest with the public- at least with the Parliament- to say: 'We cannot explain how that extraordinary Budget figure was produced'. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is somewhat more ingenious than his senatorial colleague, but on the whole I think it is best to draw a curtain across his confused and rather confusing explanations offered on 1 7 August. I will not go into them in depth; but, briefly. One explanation was that there will be more draconian administration and somehow the administration will be sufficiently draconian to reduce significantly the cost of the unemployment benefit. Secondly, the Treasurer argued that somehow de-indexing would keep the increase down. But, of course, what he has to explain is the decrease in the Budget allocation. I suggest that the estimate of expenditure on the unemployment benefit is a gross underestimate, a completely fudged figure. 
Let me suggest how the sum should be done and, I suspect, how it has been done within the Department of Social Security. I suggest that the figure in the Budget underestimates the expenditure by $150m, and that probably is conservative. Let me indicate how that is calculated. Firstly, on the Treasurer's own figures, the average number of beneficiaries per month will be 290,000, an increase over the number for the previous year of 25,000 beneficiaries per month. This will increase the annual cost by approximately $80m. Secondly, it is admitted that there will be an extra pay-day in 1 978-79 compared with 1977-78 and this will add $30m to the cost. Thirdly, there will be limited indexationtherefore, there will be some increase in the benefit- for that segment of the unemployed with dependants. A conservative estimate of that further cost is $ 15m. 
Finally, on the basis of an examination of the figures available for July-August this year, the payments reflect that the Government clearly has underestimated, even with an average of 290,000 a month, the extent of unemployment and therefore the extent of payments. When we allow for this on the basis of the July-August figures, we can add, conservatively, a further $30m to the unemployment benefit bill. If one adds those complete figures together one gets a total underestimate of $ 155m. 
Of course, that should not surprise anyone. There should be no surprise in Australia by now at the fact that expenditure on this item has been underestimated by $155m, because that is simply in keeping with the Government's record in the past two years. In 1976-77 the Government got its estimate of expenditure on the unemployment benefit wrong by $ 1 6 1 m. Last year, 1977-78, the Government got it wrong by $ 1 55m. So I do not think one should be surprised that the estimate will be out by $ 1 55m this year. I think that by now most Australians should realise that we have not only rubbery estimates but also a rather rubbery government. 
The second issue to which I want to allude briefly is the matter of research within the Department of Social Security. At the beginning of this session I got from the Department a rather fudged answer about the extent of monitoring and research being done by the Department of Social Security. I think it is clear that within the Department there is a genuine fear that effective research, particularly if it is publicised, will reveal the extent of need and want in this community and that, therefore, increasing demands and pressures will be brought upon the Department. I have talked to officers of the Department who have admitted honestly that one of the fears about research is that it will begin to reveal some of the gaps that exist in the social security area in this nation. Certainly when one looks at research publications one sees that the contribution from the Social Security Department is very small. 
In order to deal with the kinds of growing problems which this society is facing, particularly because the problems are changing rather dramatically I refer, for instance, to the demographic change affecting age patterns in this community- radically different policies will be needed in the social security field in the coming years. 
What kind of preparation and what kind of research are being done by the Social Security Department to prepare Australia for a very different balance of ages in the 1980s? Many of these questions are being raised. The whole problem of youth unemployment, a problem which seems certain to be with us for some time, requires much fuller research by the Department so that governments and parliaments in this country have answers. There is certainly need for a much greater commitment and development of research facilities within the Department of Social Security. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Hodges)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I rise to speak against clauses 5 and 6, which of course are the clauses which involve the annual indexation of pensions. I think that there are three major reasons why members on the other side of the House should oppose this particular provision, that is, the provision to reduce pension adjustments from twice yearly to once yearly. Firstly, it would, on the definition offered by the Leader of the Liberal Party, be introducing politics back into pensions. Secondly, it would clearly flout the pledges made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and others during the election campaigns of 1975 and 1977. Thirdly, if those political reasons are not sufficient, one might appeal to the social conscience of honourable members on both sides of the chamber. Let me take each of those arguments in turn. 
First of all, it was, of course, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  whose tongue is a somewhat undisciplined instrument, who said last night that the Australian Labor Party was playing politics with pensioners. I would point to the irrefutable argument of his own leader, who in March 1977 said: 
We are committed to taking politics out of pension increases by giving automatic increases in Une with price rises twice a year. 
The definition of the Prime Minister of 'taking politics out of pension increases' was a commitment to twice-yearly adjustments. Therefore, if honourable members opposite vote for this provision, then by the definition of their own leader they will be reintroducing politics into the pension field. That is the first point. 
Secondly, there is no need at this stage in the debate to quote statements by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  by the Prime Minister himself or innumerable Liberal speakers during the 1975 and 1977 election campaigns concerning their commitment to twiceyearly adjustments. It is true that of their phrases, particularly those of the Prime Minister, one could use a kind of subtle sophistry and say: Well, he did not quite commit himself to doing that forever. ' But the clear implication given to pensioners throughout last year was that twiceyearly adjustments of pensions would continue. That pledge will be broken if Government supporters vote for clauses 5 and 6. 
Finally, and this is the most important consideration, is the question of social justice in these matters. I do not believe that the social conscience of the Party opposite is as yet completely attenuated. To introduce annual indexation for pensions is to strike at the real value of the pension. Instead of trailing some four months behind the consumer price index, as they do at the moment, pensioners will be trailing some 16 months behind. For much of the year that will certainly reduce the real value of the pension. 
It has been presented to us as a kind of feeble excuse, a kind of subterfuge, that inflation gains by the Government now justify this rather miserly treatment of the pensioner. There is nothing in the history of twice-yearly adjustments to justify the claim that somehow it is related to inflation or to inflation gains. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  pointed out last night, the McMahon Government gave twice-yearly increases in 1971 and 1972 without reference to inflation at a time when the inflation rate was less than that of today.  Mr McMahon, Mr Snedden  and  Mr Fraser,  when Leaders of the Opposition, pledged in each election twiceyearly adjustments, again without reference to inflation. If the matter should still be a matter of debate the question was asked in the Senate, I think two weeks ago, of the Minister for Social Security whether twice-yearly indexation had ever been dependent on the rate of inflation. The Minister for Social Security said quite clearly that the policy itself and the introduction of that policy into legislation made no such qualification. So that kind of argument is simply a subterfuge. 
I say seriously to all honourable members opposite that if they want to follow their leader and not reintroduce politics into pensions, they should vote against clauses 5 and 6. If they intend to adhere to at least the understanding that pensioners had in 1977, given the series of statements made during that year by Liberal leaders, again they will vote against these clauses. We are not asking for more for the pensioners. We recognise, and I think the pensioners recognise, that the economic situation is an extremely difficult one. All we are asking is that the value of their pensions be maintained. 
Sitting suspended from  12.59  to  2.15  p.m. 
-On behalf of the Opposition I oppose clause 45. Clause 45 is the provision which excludes unemployment beneficiaries without dependants from the benefit of indexation. Therefore their rate of benefit will remain at the present rate of $5 1 .45 a week. It does seem to me that in its discriminatory nature this is a peculiarly vicious provision, but it also seems a rather odd provision to be introduced at the very time when the Government is beginning to admit its responsibilities in relation to unemployment and the unemployed. Another worry about this clause is that the second reading speech introduced in this chamber by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  does not explain- there is no effort to justify- why this group of beneficiaries alone, amongst all the social security beneficiaries, is to be denied even the benefit of annual indexation. Of all the various categories of social security beneficiaries, why is this group alone to be left out? 
Let me see whether I can discover some of the reasons that might lie behind the introduction of this proposal. First of all, what is the difference between a sickness beneficiary without a dependant and an unemployment beneficiary without a dependant? Is the unemployment beneficiary in some sense morally less worthy, or is this discrimination one further piece of evidence to support this dole bludger syndrome which tends to lie behind much of the rhetoric of the Government on this question? 
I will take the point made by the honourable member for Dundas. I congratulate the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  because this morning he did disavow the usage of this term, but I think it is quite clear to anyone who has looked at the speeches of Liberal and Country Party members over the last years that that disavowal has not been universal. Indeed, last night the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  argued, or appeared to argue, that the justification for the severity of this provision relating to the unemployment benefit was that there were a few parasites amongst the unemployed. The word 'parasite' was his. He argued that this justified the kind of treatment that was being dealt to unemployment beneficiaries, namely, their being denied the benefit of indexation. 
Does the Government regard this discrimination as being of minimal impact, as in a sense affecting only young people? The Government has produced figures which show that the great bulk of unemployment beneficiariesapproximately 73 per cent- do not have dependants. So this provision affects the great bulk of those receiving the unemployment benefit. They are not just young people. Indeed, figures provided again through the Department suggest that at least half of those people are not young people; that is, people under 20 years of age. So under this provision the great bulk of unemployment beneficiaries will be denied indexation of their benefit. Those beneficiaries are not just young people. Yet this is the Government whose Prime Minister declared: 'We will be generous to those who cannot get a job and want to work'. Are three-quarters of the unemployed now being denied generosity because they are supposed not to want to work? Is that the explanation for this discrimination? 
On the other hand, perhaps the $5 1.45 a week is now considered to be adequate benefit. Certainly it was not so considered by  Mr Fraser  when he was the Leader of the Opposition in 1974. Then he said that 'he accepted the principle that as unemployment rose so too should unemployment benefits; that the principle would be designed to protect individuals who quite innocently are caught in the turmoil of a mismanaged economy'. Certainly we are now in the turmoil of a mismanaged economy with rising unemployment. However, the great bulk of the unemployed are to be denied any rise in benefits, a principle enunciated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as Leader of the Opposition in 1974. 
Again, if you look at the $5 1 .45 , it is some $ 1 4 below a fairly austerely drawn poverty line. A poverty line for single people without dependants is approximately $65 a week at the moment so it is some $14 below that already, below a level of income necessary for the basic requirements for food and shelter, let alone the costs of searching for work. By next month the difference will be over $15 and it is to be unchanged for another 12 months. Even if the Government's optimism about inflation is correct it will be some $18 below the poverty line in November 1979. Of course some young people are cushioned by their parents against the full effects of this decision. However, this decision will condemn a growing number of Australians to an increasing level of destitution. 
Yet the irony is that the people who are being penalised chiefly by this decision are in fact the chief and admitted victims of this Government's economic policy. The Government now admits, and has done so quite clearly in recent weeks, that a further increase in unemployment is an inevitable aspect of its own economic policy. It is an hypocrisy to say: 'As part of our economic policy we are going to have an inevitable rise in unemployment. It will be good in the long run for all these people ', but to deny the victims of its own economic policy an indexation award granted to every other social security beneficiary it is, to my mind, a monumental hypocrisy in that these victims should now be selected out from all other social security beneficiaries and denied indexation- the one group denied this privilege across the whole range of social security beneficiaries. I say quite frankly to members on the opposite side that if they now vote for this provision and then come along a few weeks later to prate their concern about the unemployed, they will deserve to be treated-I believe the 
Australian people will treat them- as sanctimonious hypocrites. 
I think the first thing to note about the collection of health Bills we are discussing tonight is that they represent the latest flip in a series of flips, flops and contortions- in fact it might well be said that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in the past three years has outrivalled anything offered in the  Kama Sutra.  First of all let us take Medibank 2V4 which was offered in May of this year. It was always a pretty feeble scheme in conception and in fact it has been aborted after four months. 
I would like to take up the point made by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  that somehow this measure offers a completion of the proposals made in May. I think that if anyone looks at the set of Bills we are now examining, in no sense could they be seen as a completion of the policies introduced in May. In fact they are a series of dramatic reversals of many of the major features introduced in May. Let me just take three of them. The proposals introduced in May and June abolished bulk billing. But in the present proposals bulk billing is restored, admittedly in a somewhat modified guise, after having got the chopper in May. Again, as a result of the May procedures and the June Bills, the basic refund was reduced from 85 per cent to 75 per cent. The latest set of Bills make another major reduction from 75 per cent to 40 per cent in the basic refund. Finally, in the present set of Bills, in addition to the range of optional deductibles which were promised in May, the Australian people have been offered a massive front end and very attractive optional deductible which, as many commentators have suggested, may well make financial nonsense of the whole scheme. The non-insurance Commonwealth segment of the scheme is, in fact, very much a massive front end deductible which, if a major choice is made in that direction by the Australian people, may well create serious financial problems for the present proposals. Thus I think that it is difficult to say this set of Bills represents in any sense a completion of those Bills introduced in May and June. Quite clearly, we have now Medibank 3!, because I do not really think that the May- June proposals, given their short period of life, deserve to be considered a significant scheme. We now have Medibank  3i,  which I think has to be judged as an entirely new set of schemes. It is the fourth major change this Government has made. 
I echo in many ways what the honourable member for Murray said about the hopes for the stability of the scheme. Clearly, whatever we think about this latest scheme, most of us would say that the Australian people have been so messed about with health proposals in the last three years that we should at least give them a chance of stability. However, the problem is that Medibank  Vh  had a four or five-month life. It never really got into the real world. The prospects for Medibank  3i,  if I may dub this latest scheme 'Medibank  2Vi  are scarcely very propitious. I do not think that the prospects for the present scheme are very good. If we look at the conditions under which it arose, we have justification to be worried about its survival. First of all, the latest permutation on the medical provision for this country was not primarily designed in the interests of the health care of the Australian people. That was not the prime intention of the scheme. Medical and health concerns were not uppermost in the original planning of this latest permutation. Indeed, the reaction of the Austraiian Medical Association and the private health insurance insurers when they first heard of the scheme is evidence of that. The chief reason for the present proposal was the exigencies of the Budget- the financial problems faced by the Government in its 1978-79 Budget. The primary purpose originally of this latest contortion was to ensure a compensatory fudging of the consumer price index figures by abandoning the health levy to offset the inflationary effects of the increase in indirect taxes, particularly, of course, the impact of the petrol levy. Indeed, one might say that this Budget was conceived by Howard out of the Treasury rather than by Hunt out of Health. In mid-August these new proposals were unveiled in pretty inauspicious circumstances. I think that the Minister himself would admit that it was fairly messy in those early days. This is clearly evident if honourable members read the Minister's statement on Budget day. It was a statement of much bewilderment and considerable befuddlement. I think that the  Australian  was rather kind to describe the Minister for Health the day after as a little woolly in his description of the scheme. 
-No, I think that the newspaper was rather kind; I admit that. The problem was that the Minister was not quite sure with what he was landed on 15 August. Of course, had there been full planning of this new scheme, had it arisen very much from the Department of Health rather than from the Budget considerations, we could have expected, along with the Budget announcement, a clear exposition of the new scheme, its machinery, its benefits and its drawbacks. I think that the Minister himself would agree that on 15 August we did not get that. Thus in those first days a whole series of problems surfaced, none of which were satisfactorily answered in the Minister's Budget day statement. Let me deal with four of those problems because I think that in a sense they have continued with us. First, what would be the effect of changes to Medibank on staff employment within the Health Insurance Commission? It is interesting to note that the circulated copy of the Minister's statement of that day noted that some of the present employees of the Health Insurance Commission 'will be surplus to requirements'. By the time the Minister reached the House, this statement had become, 'some, indeed a considerable number, of the present employees of the Health Insurance Commission will be surplus to requirements'. As the Minister made policy on the run, the wording was changed from 'some employees' to a 'considerable number of employees'. This question was certainly not faced very seriously in the first document. It was admitted that a problem existed there. It is a problem to which we will return. 
Secondly, who would act as the agency for the payment of the universal benefit to the uninsured? Again, the Minister's statement of 15 August was vague but appeared to suggest that the agency would be the private funds, although there was no discussion at that stage of the fees to be charged for such services. 
Thirdly, how was the new category, the socially disadvantaged, to be defined? Of course, I notice that the word 'socially' has been dropped and the latest version talks about disadvantaged persons', but it is the same problem- the defining of this category. Again, on this point, essential to many of the bulk billing considerations, the Ministerial statement was silent. 
Finally, I return to the point raised by the honourable member for Murray. There is an uncertainty about how long this latest permutation will last. On the whole, the periods of survival have been getting shorter for each scheme introduced by the Government. It appeared from the statements that we have to date that the universal payment of 40 per cent was not guaranteed to last beyond the present financial year, although I am hoping that by the end of this debate we may be able to get an assurance that the survival date will go beyond eight months. 
Since 15 August, in the past two months, bits of information have been dribbled forth in a somewhat piecemeal fashion. I think some of the doubts have been resolved but, of course, others remain. Indeed, with some of the responses, new questions arise. I want to take those points I have been discussing to see what the situation is. 
I am hoping that unlike the Minister's responses to me this afternoon, he will be able to answer confidently for me some of the questions I will ask shortly. I deal firstly with the employment situation of Medibank employees. On 15 August the Minister stated:  lt does seem, however, that some- indeed a considerable number- of the present employees of the Health Insurance Commission will be surplus to requirements. We will make every effort to redeploy any surplus staff to the Public Service, to other Commonwealth authorities, to the private insurance funds or elsewhere. 
It is eight weeks since that statement was made. Given the answers that the Minister gave to questions asked in the House yesterday, we still have no clear indication as to how many employees will be surplus to requirements. The first question I ask is this: Is the Minister able to tell the House tonight what are the numbers or at least the approximate numbers which will be surplus to requirements? Again, the Minister mentioned that there were to be arrangements to redeploy surplus staff. Let us see whether we can get some specific answer to the question. What exact arrangements have been made to deploy surplus staff of the Health Insurance Commission to other areas of the Public Service? What are the specific proposals which the Minister has in mind? Thirdly, yesterday the Minister made mention of assurances he has received from the private health funds. Again, that is all very well but all very vague. How precise are these assurances? For instance, I ask the Minister Has he received any assurances that former Health Insurance Commission employees will be given preference in employment of new staff by private health funds? 
I think that the Minister has a fairly serious responsibility here. The employment problem we are now talking about is very much the result of the flip flops that I originally mentioned when discussing this measure. In May, the types of policy which the Minister was proposing then promised an expansion of employment, primarily because the abolition of bulk billing would require bigger staffs to handle the resulting problems. Of course, the decisions of August implied, as the Minister admitted, a considerable surplus of employees to requirement and thus , a significant retraction. In May and June we have promise of expansion. In August, we have the promise of retraction. 
I hope that the Minister for Health will make some use of this debate to clarify for the people concerned the uncertainty which is the direct result of his own contortions. As I mentioned to him a moment ago, I am not overly hopeful as I tried to get some explanation this afternoon as to why unemployed people aged over 18 years without dependants should somehow be specially singled out as the only social service beneficiaries not to receive indexation. I did not get any answer to that. 
After some weeks of suspense we know now that the universal Commonwealth medical benefit is going to be paid by the voluntary health insurance agencies. As far as we can understand the initial fee per claim is to be $ 1.52. One of the great problems with that is that the proliferation of agencies involved and clearly the complexities of the process about which the private insurance agencies have made much complaint almost certainly threaten a dramatic rise in that fee. Thus we will be faced, I fear, with an increasing and unnecessary drain simply for administrative processing. I would like some assurance that the kind of strong line the Minister took in recent weeks to keep this fee at $1.52 can be maintained against the kinds of pressures which will inevitably result, firstly, because there is a vast proliferation of agencies making these payments and, secondly, therefore, a very great duplication of resources. 
It seems to me that as regards the payment of the basic 40 per cent, a single centralised agency would be a far more efficient and less costly means of doing it. Let me say personally that I object to the drafting of all non-insurers into registering with private funds. We hear much talk from the other side of the House about freedom of choice in these matters, and it is true, of course, that people on Medibank standard like myself now have a wide range of choice, of the private funds. We can register with any of these private funds and I suppose that we can register with Medibank Private which I would encourage most people to do in the hope that one day we may restore Medibank standard. 
I will return to that point in a moment. Nevertheless, it is now compulsory for people to register with private agencies. The reason I condemn this, apart from my own particular and personal objection, is that the problem of unemployment on the Health Insurance 
Commission side could have been partly solved by making Medibank Private or the Health Insurance Commission entirely responsible for the standard payment. At least it would have made easier the employment problems on the Health Insurance Commission side. Throughout the history of the pursuit of an adequate and satisfactory universal scheme the private health insurance agencies have been amongst the chief enemies of these proposals. They are now to be given a public subsidy which is almost certain to grow, given the pressures they are now applying. As some consumer groups have pointed out, how far can we ensure that people who are compelled to register with these agencies are not then subjected to the advertising procedures and opportunities which will be opened up to the private insurers, not through any choice of individuals but because they are compelled to register with a private agency. Some of us see this as a possible Trojan horse whereby, if the basic elements of the central scheme are altered, people will be lined up in the private agencies ready to receive them. 
After weeks of hesitation the Minister has come down against providing legislative guidelines for denning disadvantaged persons. The doctor will have the responsibility of defining a disadvantaged person. I recognise and sympathise with some of the Minister's difficulties in this field. On the other hand I think we should ask: Is the doctor the appropriate person to make this decision? In many ways I am sympathetic with the criticism advanced by Professor Sawyer that the Government is now turning the doctor into a new kind of poor law administrator who has to make a decision about the socially disadvantaged- a field in which he has no particular expertise. 
-And not very effectively. 
I will give the honourable member some cases in a moment. Of course, it is not surprising that doctors do not do it very effectively because one needs social worker expertise to make decisions about socially disadvantaged persons. It seems to me that the Government is giving the medical profession a task which, neither by training nor by particular expertise, is it well equipped to deal with. One of the worries here, about which constituents have complained to me already, is that doctors may simply make a decision between good and bad payers; that is, those whom they know can be relied upon to pay, whatever their social level, will be dealt with in the ordinary way and somebody who is seen as a bad payer, for whatever feckless or other reason, will be simply treated as a socially disadvantaged person. I think that is a very important point because I think that many doctors may take that way out. The decision will be a judgment not so much of the basic social conditions of the person but simply whether he is a good or bad payer and that may not necessarily relate to the general social situation of the person, although, of course, it is not unrelated. I am glad that the Minister has included in his speech a promise that he has arranged for his Department to look closely at the operation of the new direct billing procedures, particularly as they relate to the classification of the disadvantaged person. I hope that he will give us some details about how what is a fairly difficult operation will be carried out. When he gets a chance to respond to some of these remarks I hope that is another point he will take up. 
Finally the Minister, in his Press statements to date, has been reluctant to give a survival date to the scheme. I think we must ask whether it is just to survive so long as it serves the present exigencies of the Budget. Is it limited to the lifetime of this Budget, that is, to a period of eight months? I think that people deserve some assurance on this subject, and here I echo the comment of the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd).  I hope that we have reached some degree of stability in the basic concept of the scheme particularly while this Government survives, a period which we hope will not be for very much longer. At least let us hope that while it survives there will be no changes to the scheme. One can see quite clearly that the only changes that will be made to the scheme now will be essentially regressive, that is, a playing around, I fear, with the basic components of it. 
I admit that most of the criticisms I have made of the scheme tend to deal with the detail and the periphery of the proposals because, as the honourable member for Murray pointed out, the basic principles of this scheme restore the original concept of Medibank Mark I, at least in concept. We would, of course, want to make adaptions to that in terms of the basic cover, the basic amount paid back. We would like to see a single agency dealing with those who opt to accept the basic cover. But in principle this is a scheme which, unlike the efforts of the past two years, moves back towards the basic principles of the original scheme. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 8 June 1978: 
I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It concerns those public radio stations presently licensed under the Wireless Telegraphy Act and due shortly to come before the Broadcasting Tribunal for licensing hearings. Will the Department of Post and Telecommunications be allowed to pass on to the Tribunal reports of complaints received about those stations right up to the time of the hearing? If so, would this put complainers at a considerable advantage over people who wish to make commendations and who, under the provisions of the Act, must meet a deadline some six weeks or so before the hearing? 
-by leave-As a member of the delegation I second the thanks of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  to our hosts and, of course, to the Australian high commissions and embassies whose members contributed very much to the success of the tour. I take this opportunity to say that there is often much criticism in Australia about parliamentary delegations of this nature. I say first of all to those critics that the period spent in India was approximately one month in mid-summer. The official day began usually no later than 7 a.m. and often earlier. It usually did not finish before 10 o'clock in the evening. That was an experience which suggests that people work very hard on these delegations. I think we need to stress to the public the work involved in many of these delegations. 
Secondly, particularly in relation to a delegation to India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, it is very difficult for most Australians, certainly most Australian politicians- this includes myself- to make the imaginative jump between the nature of our society and the nature of the societies they are visiting. 
I think it is almost impossible to understand the problems that these countries face simply by reading books about them. Certainly for me- and I do not think I lack imagination entirely- the revelation of the problems on the ground of these countries will fundamentally alter my attitude to our role in that particular area. It seems to me that that is extremely valuable. 
Finally, I wish to say that I think there has been a neglect by Australia of the Indian subcontinent. In many ways in the 1950s and 1960s we worked out, often rather tragically, our relationship with South East Asia. In the 1970s we have done an enormous amount towards working out our relationship with China, but it does seem to me that there has been a neglect of the Indian sub-continent. I hope that in the decade ahead we will turn our attention to that particular area. Certainly from our experience we can say that there is an enormous amount of goodwill for Australia in Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and India. I think it is important that in the years ahead we give substance to that goodwill. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
What was the shortfall in revenue in 1977-78 resulting from the overestimate in the 1977-78 Budget projections of the rise in average weekly earnings during 1 977-78. 
If there is one thing that parliamentarians and academics suffer in common it is a public prejudice about their overseas travel arrangements. I think it is true to say that there are capital public attitudes towards our travel arrangements, and equally critical public attitudes towards the study leave provisions for academics. Interestingly, however, one of the three education references that were made in the Budget Speech concerned the tightening up of tertiary study leave. On 1 1 October the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  himself added to this debate by his contribution at Question Time. He said a number of things, some of which were misleading and others which were inaccurate. In addition, I think that he failed to face up to some of the central issues in the question of university study leave. 
In what ways were the Prime Minister's remarks misleading? Firstly, he dragged into the debate the issue of study leave for university administrators. That represents a very minor part of the problem and in many ways is simply a red herring. He said: 
Study leave has not been restricted merely to those who need some relief from academic duties and studies during an academic year. It has been extended to administrators . . . 
In almost all universities there is usually a quite separate provision in relation to administrators as distinct from academic staff. Anyhow, the issue of study leave for administrators is a minimal problem and constitutes a very minimal amount of study leave. The report which was presented to the Prime Minister noted that in a five-year period 113 non-academic staff took periods of leave. That represents little more than one staff member a year for each university. So the whole issue of university administrators and study leave is very much a miserable red herring, and its use suggest that there is a pretty poor case to be covered up by the Prime Minister. 
Secondly, the Prime Minister bolstered his argument with rhetoric. He said: 
If study leave is necessary one year in seven for administrators in universities, why would it not be necessary for adminstrators in other walks of life? 
It is true that in many other walks of life administrators now get periods of provisional leave in order to catch up with overseas events in their own field. Indeed, it might be a very good idea if we were able to extend these provisions. But one might ask why should parliamentarians get what is in effect a form of study leave provision every three years? I said yesterday, and I repeat it here, that overseas travel provides a very great opportunity for parliamentarians to visit other societies and examine their political and social institutions, and this is an invaluable experience which I would defend. But equally so, I think the opportunity for university administrators to visit other universities and examine other systems of tertiary education is also an invaluable experience, given that the university is set in an international environment. Again, it is not, as somebody suggested, for a year, because most of these study leave provisions for administrators are for a much shorter period of time- I think the average is about five to six months. Certainly on the figures that we have been given this so-called generosity is not over-used or abused. 
The Prime Minister suggested some rather extravagant costing for study leave. He suggested it cost Australia something like $40m a year. Admittedly, he includes in this figure some notional idea of additional staff to replace those overseas, but the Tertiary Education Commission's report, which included all universities and all colleges of advanced education and included all direct and indirect costs, still manages a total of just under $24m. It is true that those figures were for 1975; but I doubt whether the Prime Minister would wish to argue that his 3-year regime has been characterised by almost 100 per cent inflation. So I think the figure given there is much exaggerated. 
It is not surprising that the Prime Minister exaggerates or has a tendency to be extravagant about travel costs. Indeed, even a conservative calculation of the Prime Minister's international extravaganza in June would suggest that it equalled approximately the total annual study leave budget of one large Australian university. I am dealing now only with direct costs. I am not dealing with academic salaries or prime ministerial salaries; it is simply the direct cost of the Prime Minister's extravaganza compared with the direct costs of the study leave budget of a large Australian university. 
Having got out of the way these peripheral issues, let us look at the whole problem in some perspective. I think that we in this chamber should oppose these kinds of cuts. The reason for so doing is that scholarship is essentially an international activity oriented for Western culture overwhelmingly towards the universities of Europe and the USA. Australia is inevitably geographically isolated from these centres. Australian scholars are geographically cut off from the international community of scholars. For the great bulk of Australian scholars, their sources, the key figures in their field, the great laboratories, are for them overseas. It is true that technological developments have lessened some of this isolation. But none of the basic reasons for which academics go overseas, such as to do sustained personal research, to join particular research groups, to gain access to particular equipment, to work in specialist laboratories, to examine source material, to visit particular regions, institutions, museums and sites and to talk at length with other scholars, can be replaced by improved communication. 
This is not to argue that some Australian scholars at times might, for scholarly reasons, desire to take their study leave periods in Australia, as a number do. But it should be their option, their choice, and it should be the exception rather than the rule. Simply to argue, as does the Prime Minister, that we have got good Australian universities, which no one denies, and therefore Australian academics should spend their study leave in other Australian universities is to encourage parochialism and provincialism in our scholarly community which, I believe, will be ultimately paralysing to Australian scholarships and fateful to its international contribution. 
Furthermore, the market for scholars is an international market. True, at the moment and for the foreseeable future, it is a buyer's market. Nevertheless, given its geographical position, Australia will neither attract nor retain the very best scholars without internationally-generous study leave provisions. 
Finally, the allocation of resources for study leave should be the province of autonomous universities, not national budget directions. We all recognise that universities in the years ahead are inevitably going to face financial limitations and restrictions. But within very broad guidelines, they should be left to determine their own priorities, to place their own values on study leave as against other demands- that is, they will have to balance the requirements of study leave against other demands in a much tighter budgetary period- but they should not be regimented into a national straight-jacket, as apparently is envisaged by the Prime Minister and the Treasurer (  Mr Howard  ). 
I recognise that some academics abuse study leave provisions, as 1 suppose some parliamentarians abuse their overseas travelling provisions. But the study leave inquiry looked at this issue and found very little evidence of abuse; indeed, it concluded that there was 'no evidence of widespread misuse of the study leave system' and that the committee believes that in most cases study leave propositions have been properly utilised in accordance with their purposes and spirit'. Indeed, there is very much evidence gathered in that and other reports that the pursuit of study leave involves financial and personal cost for most academics. 
Let me conclude by saying that whilst there is obviously reason to improve reporting and accountability procedures- the universities have to do a much better job with reporting and accountability procedures in regard to study leave- the proposals espoused in the TEC report and apparently received sympathetically by the Prime Minister and the Treasurer will produce only minimal financial benefits. It is estimated today to be $1.5m a year in savings. In return, it will further weaken university autonomy; it will increase the educational bureaucracy at the tertiary level; it will disadvantage young scholars as against established scholars; and, above all, it will lead to a deterioration in the fabric of Australian intellectual life. 
-Just as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  attempts to defend his present economic incompetence by waffling on about the years from 1972 to 1975, so the Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  apes his master by defending his present incompetence by waffling on about the events of the years from 1972 to 1975. It seems to me absurd that anyone in this country would listen to lessons from either this man or his party on foreign policy, because for a generation they have been wrong on every great international issue or at least belated in their recognition of its significance. They were wrong on Vietnam. They were wrong for a generation on the recognition of China. They were wrong for 20 years about the problem developing in southern Africa because of the nature of the regimes there. Yet they come here and attempt to give lessons to us and to the Australian people. 
After the past IS minutes let us return to more serious matters. I think that it is not putting it too high to say that in the decades ahead Australia will be judged internationally by its response to South East Asia and, above all, by its response to the Association of South East Asian Nations, constituting, as it does, Australia's near neighbours. If we, as a rich, affluent, Western nation, cannot establish in depth relationships of friendship and reciprocity with those countries- not merely claim that we have excellent relations but in fact achieve in depth, excellent relations not necessarily with the governments but with the peoples of these countries- there is little prospect of our corning to terms in the international context with the Third World. Unless we can achieve it in our region we have little prospect of achieving it in the rest of the Third World. Our relations with ASEAN will provide a test case for our relations with the Third World as a whole. Failure here will isolate us not merely regionally but internationally. 
All the smooth rhetoric of the Foreign Minister will be no substitute for real and substantial relationships with the countries of the region. For several years now we have had smooth rhetoric and insufficient substance in our relations with these countries. All the fine eloquence of the Foreign Minister on a new international economic order will cut no ice unless we can practice in this region the principles underlying the new economic order. It is no good talking about it in international forums and making a great splash unless we can practise it in this area. All the Prime Minister's oratory in favour of 'a fairer and stronger world trade system' will be dismissed as mere hypocrisy unless we in this region can establish with our neighbours a fairer and stronger trade system. 
Again what we have all round us is rhetoric without substance. Even the rhetoric itself is pretty thin. I refer to the Foreign Minister's great' statement of May which was apparently a statement for this year's foreign policy. He said: 
Effective relations with the five countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations are essential to the Government's continuing efforts to promote regional stability and economic development. 
But his statement included merely a sentence on how he was getting on well with the leaders of those countries, something about aid and waffle about institutions. But there was nothing in that speech- he was completely silent- about the interests which are vital to the ASEAN countries themselves, the issue of closer trading relationships with the ASEAN countries. There was nothing of substance on the strengthening of trade links with ASEAN, nothing of substance on strengthening desired Australian investment in the ASEAN region and nothing at all on the restrictions which still deny reasonable access to Australian markets for ASEAN products. Then this week we heard the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  Again the rhetoric. He said: 
The continuing growth of Australia's exports to the ASEAN nations reflects a logical relationship which flows from their close proximity . . . exports are vital to Australia's economy, but it must be remembered that this also applies to ASEAN nations. 
What is the Government doing not in speech but in its policy to ensure that Australian industry recognises the potential markets in the ASEAN region? What is this Government doing to ensure the necessary adjustments to the Australian manufacturing sector so that it will be in a position to seize developing opportunities in the ASEAN countries? What is the Government doing to ensure an expansion of ASEAN imports which the Deputy Prime Minister assures us is as vital to the ASEAN nations as it is to Australia? 
Rather than trying to find substantive answers to these questions which underlie our future relationship with the ASEAN nations, this Government seems content simply to exacerbate our commercial relations with the ASEAN nations. 
Let me give some evidence of that particular statement. The Government's intention, as announced in the Budget, to tax income earned by Australian companies overseas will negate investment incentives which the ASEAN countries have been using to try to attract investment. 1 hear rumours that that may be going the way of some of the other Budget proposals. Let us hope on that point that it will do so in relation to the ASEAN countries. The Budget's 12.5 per cent duty on goods subject to import quota controls strikes again at particular imports from ASEAN countries. The Industries Assistance Commission's recommendation, which I believe is now before the Government, for a tariff of 1 5 per cent against timber and timber products would threaten ASEAN imports to Australia, particularly from the Philippines, Malaysia and Thailand. There is also the recently announced attempt by commercial aviation to impose some kind of international airline regime which neglects our responsibilities for economic cooperation with our ASEAN neighbours. I ask the Government: How much consultation and cooperation lay behind the development of the new aviation policy, at least in relation to countries such as Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore? Is this again an example of failure to produce anything of substance and another example of fine rhetoric? 
I accept the Foreign Minister's point that we in the Labor Party are not utterly free of blame for this situation, but if we look at what has been going on in the last few years we will find that nothing has been done in a serious way since this Government has been in power to rectify the trade problems. One of our problems is that we are frequently presented by this Government with an economic situation which is a caricature of what is going on. The Minister used figures, but quite clearly one of his weaknesses as Foreign Minister is some difficulty with figures. There has been a growth of Australian exports to the ASEAN area, but it is only a little ahead of the overall growth pattern of our exports. We have not in fact made a major development in that region in relation to our total trade pattern. There are worrying features about the export pattern to the ASEAN countries. For one thing, it now seems to be a static if not a declining share of these ASEAN markets; that is to say, at least in Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand our share of these markets is in no way expanding. Secondly, there is a falling proportion of manufactured goods in what we export. In many ways one of the possibilities for future Australian development is, of course, the export of manufactured goods to these areas. Yet if we look at the figures the share of our export in those areas in terms of manufactured goods is in decline. 
The Foreign Minister made much about imports, but did so simply by giving us absolute figures, using an odd base year and telling us nothing about the proportions. Indeed, the worrying thing about imports from ASEAN countries is that as a proportion of our markets there has been no significant increase in the past decade. The Minister did not leave out Middle East oil sold through Singapore, which makes a big difference to the figures, as I think he would admit, but if we leave out that factor, Australian imports sourced from ASEAN countries were 2.8 per cent of our imports in 1 967-68 and 3 per cent of our imports in 1976-77. That shows very little growth in the proportion of the market. 
Finally, we should note that the balance of trade is against nearly all of the ASEAN countries. The balance of trade today is in favour of only Singapore. That should concern us as a nation in this area. It should concern us even more when we contrast it with the balance of trade between the ASEAN countries and Japan and ASEAN countries and the United States where the ASEAN countries have the advantage in relation to those developed societies. I finish by simply saying to the Minister that if he bothers to look at the serious facts of our trade situation with ASEAN countries he will see that we have major problems ahead of us. Rather than relying on rhetoric let this Government produce a few substantive proposals, firstly, to expand our exports in the area, particularly in manufactured goods; secondly, to do something about the imbalance of trade; and thirdly, to look again at the import situation. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the abandonment and amendment of a number of tax proposals, the apparent Budget underestimate of the expenditure on unemployment benefit and the now admitted overestimate of employment growth in the coming year will ensure that the Budget deficit will rise above $3 billion? 
I feel it unnecessary to make any detailed response to the attack by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  on the Australian Labor Party's health scheme. This is fundamentally because in my own constituency there is a growing and widespread desire to return to the simplicity and equity of Labor's original scheme. It is true that on the whole the people in my constituency are not favoured by the kinds of elaborate schemes now being developed. I think that right through the community there is a growing desire to return to simpler, more equitable and, I believe, ultimately more efficient schemes. 
I take up the Minister's point that confusion always has been a problem when people have been faced with health insurance changes. The health system always has been an enigma, but I think it is true that it has never been a greater enigma to the Australian people than it is at present. It is my belief, and the Minister seems to have abandoned this idea completely, that government has a duty to make health schemes as simple and clear as it can. I use as my authority for that statement of the duty of government the Sax report which was issued some months ago under the auspices of the Minister. In that report Sax argued the need to create simple medical schemes for three reasons: Firstly, only if we have relatively simple schemes can we achieve our equity aims because the more complex we make the scheme the more chance there is of inequity growing; secondly, the simpler the scheme the greater the chance of efficiency; and, ultimately, the simpler the scheme the better and more effective ways there will be of controlling costs. 
The Labor Party predicted that there would be confusion with the present scheme simply because of its genesis. I think that everyone will agree now that we and the population are in an extremely confused state over this scheme. We said three months ago that the people would be confused. 
I do not think that what I say about their confusion contributes at all to the problems the Government has created for them. All I am saying is that the Opposition predicted confusion three months ago and the prediction has turned out to be correct. We predicted it because of the genesis of the scheme. As the Minister admits himself, the scheme was not thoroughly worked out in his Department. It was a scheme introduced to deal above all with the financial exigencies of the Government. This scheme was not designed primarily in the interests of the health care of the community nor was it designed to provide an adequate or equal health service for Australians. The Minister knows that the scheme was a rather hurried and makeshift response to the financial exigencies of the Budget, to deal above all with the consumer price index problems of the Government. The Minister's administrators know it; the Australian Medical Association knows it; and private health funds know it. The reason we now have so much confusion is that there was a failure of preplanning as this scheme was developed. We had three months of confusion, contradiction and uncertainty. In fact we now have a Medi-muddle to outdo all Medi-muddles 
-The Minister may disagree about the muddle but he might agree that he has these problems at the moment because he has reintroduced effectively into the health system rampant free enterprise.  His  problems occur because people in the voluntary agencies are carrying the principles of insurance to their logical extension. So we now have rampant free enterprise back in the medical market. Health insurance, not health care, is now the name of the game. The chief consideration is on the insurance side and not on the health care side. 
One can see the obvious results of this. There is the slather of advertisements in recent weeks with the best buys listed, the top bargains announced, with inducements to the young and healthy to come in and, at the end, even efforts to ward off from the funds the sick and chronically ill. 
The Minister talks about the cost of health schemes to the community. Does he ever try to estimate the costs which are now being imposed and will continue to be imposed on the community simply because of the huxterism of the advertising market which has been brought back into the health scheme to a greater extent than anything else over the past six or seven years. One needs only to look at the newspapers of this country to see what is happening. 
As I have pointed out, provisions are being introduced to favour the healthy and to disadvantage the chronically sick. Of course, this is a perfectly sensible thing for insurance people to do. They try to maximise the good risks and minimise the bad risks. Once we start giving priority to insurance we introduce these principles, but should they be the guidelines for health insurance provisions in this country? Indeed, the great achievement of Medibank mark I was that it drove the unbridled insurance ethic out of the medical field. 
The Minister himself admits that there is a welter of complex alternative schemes now available. That is a kind of freedom; I will grant him that. But we have to look at the social cost of that kind of freedom, at the whole problem of competitive advertising and at the whole problem of reading the fine print. There is even some evidence that the Minister himself had trouble reading the fine print of some of the health agencies' proposals. What then of those people entirely unversed in the health field? 
I know that the Minister has condemned the worst of these practices and the worst examples of the free enterprise ethic which we now have back in the health system and he will attempt through promised legislation to avoid its worst manifestations. However, the point that needs to be made is that these practices are simply a logical extension of the Government's attitude to medical policies since it came to power. I will read now from the Melbourne  Age  of 3 November where it comments particularly on the decisions of the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia. However, the article has wider relevance. In talking about the decision of the HCF, the  Age  said: 
It displays a cynicism and a greediness that is remarkable even for the health funds, which have done nicely enough already from the Fraser Government's decision to abandon the original Medibank and hand health insurance back to the private sector. 
But these kinds of extreme activities are the direct and logical extension of the philosophy now enshrined in the Liberal health scheme. Throughout all the permutations that have taken place over the last three years, the Government has sought to restore the private agencies to their former pre-eminence. The whole decision to move to deductibles was to open up the whole health field to competition, at once wasteful in advertising and socially undesirable. I believe that the introduction of deductibles- both the major deductibles and the deductibles offered by the private agencies- ultimately will add to the total cost burden to the community of health care. I would like briefly to read something I said in June because it has not been answered. It is, in fact, the problem at the heart of the present difficulties of the Minister. I said then: 
Secondly, deductibles produce a problem of equity, lt is quite clear that there are two groups in the community who, on the whole, can take a risk with deductibles. They are the healthy and the wealthy. The healthy can take the nsk. They can gamble on maintaining their health and therefore can take a deductible scheme. The wealthy can also take the risk because if something catastrophic happens at least they have considerable resources to meet the payments. On the other hand, the poor and the sick should in a sense be encouraged not to opt for deductibles. There is a danger for the people who are sick or likely to be sick and of course there is a major danger for the poor if they take out a deductible. But - 
Here is the present problem-  if we encourage many people to take up such schemes, universality would be threatened. If deductibles are made attractive and become terribly successful, if they attract both the poor and other people who take risks with illness universality may have to be compromised. People may be so attracted by the deductible that they take the risk. 
What the Government is doing is in fact creating or encouraging the private agencies to make very attractive deductible offerings- attractive to the healthy and the wealthy- and leaving the poor in a kind of vacuum position. 
Let me illustrate one of the problems that arise from that. The Hospitals Contribution Fund and a number of other private health agencies do not believe that they can cope with the problem of the chronically ill. There are proposals now that the financing of the chronically ill should be shared by all the private agencies in some way. But what will come out of that increasingly is the suggestion that the Government should subsidise them. I have here a very fine statement from  Mr Moon,  spokesman for the private funds, which promises the next movement of the private agencies. He said: 
These people - 
The chronically ill-  are a real problem for society and they should be considered a responsibility for everyone as a social service. 
What all those fine words mean is that the private agencies do not really want to worry about the chronically ill. They want them shifted across to some government service. Again, the long-run movement will be towards - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Bill authorises the second replenishment of the resources of the Asian Development Fund established in 1974 as a primary source of funds for the Asian Development Bank's soft loan operations, that is, its concessional long term loans. As previous speakers have pointed out, this second replenishment is a substantial increase over the first. It is virtually a trebling of the total contribution. It is similarly a trebling for Australia. I think also there can be no doubt that this substantial increase was necessary, indeed vital, to the work of the Asian Development Bank. I think it is necessary to maximise the funds which are primarily for use of the poorest countries in the region. There was already great pressure on the concessional loan funds. Indeed, at one stage in 1977 the funds were reported as being near destitute. Therefore there is a need for their substantial replenishment. The need for the Asian Development Bank to raise the ratio of concessional loans to ordinary loans from the present ratio of roughly 1:3 has been recognised by the Bank itself. There is a need for concessional loans to limit the burdens of indebtedness affecting most ofthe poorest Asian nations. 
In introducing this Bill the Minister for Foreign Affairs (  Mr Peacock  ) said: 
This Bill provides an opportunity for honourable members once again to demonstrate their bi-partisan support for the Asian Development Bank and its Asian  Develoment  Fund as an effective and efficient development finance institution and our willingness to provide the poorest developing countries in our region with highly concessional assistance through this organisation. 
As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  indicated, the Opposition supports this replenishment because we see the concessional loans as a high priority for development assistance, particularly for the poorest nations in the region. But while supporting in principle the Bank and the Fund we cannot in honesty give them that bland and uncritical endorsement offered by the Foreign Minister in his second reading speech. The glossy and rather cosy superficialities of the Foreign Minister are increasingly insufficient as a response to the growing and tragic dimensions of the problems now facing the poorest of the Asian nations. We need in fact a far more critical appraisal of the Asian Development Bank and of the Development Fund, not just for the sake of criticising it but so that Australia can ensure a much more creative and constructive input into the work of the Bank. The Minister has frequently advocated discussion and debate on foreign affairs but his cursory, bland and rather superficial second reading speech on this Bill does little to encourage such debate. 
Undoubtedly the Bank and the Fund have great virtues and I wish in no way to undervalue these. For instance, unlike most of the other regional banks, the ADB has, from the outset, from the very beginning, been an active partnership between the industrialised nations of Europe and North America and the developed and developing nations of the Asian region. It was not a development bank imposed from or conceived outside the region; from the beginning it was conceived as a partnership between the region and the industrialised nations. Many of the virtues and much of the success of the ADB stems from this original conception. We on this side of the House welcome the breadth of the Asian nations involved in the ADB. There is a broad geographical definition of Asia, which includes such countries as Papua New Guinea, Fiji, the Gilbert Islands, the Solomons and Tonga. This is very important given the present concentration or emphasis of Australian foreign policy on the South Pacific. 
We on this side of the House also welcome the ideological breadth of membership in the ADB. It contains, on one side ideologically, countries like Taiwan and South Korea and on the other side ideologically, Laos and Vietnam. It is this breadth, both geographically and ideologically, that is a very important achievement and a strength of the ADB. The Bank has been successful in securing funds from a number of nonregional member countries which otherwise have been rather neglectful of the Asian region. The ADB therefore has acted as a successful conduit for non-regional funds which otherwise would not have been available to Asian countries. If I go on like this I will sound very much like the Foreign Minister, that is, simply euphoric and uncritical and therefore unconstructive as far as our foreign policy goes. 
Let us recognise some of the problems of the ADB. There is the technical problem of loan disbursement. For example, only about 25 per cent of the amount of loans approved to date under the Asian Development Fund actually has been disbursed and only about 40 per cent of loans approved under the ordinary loan arrangements actually has been disbursed. There is clearly a serious problem of implementation for the Bank when such a small proportion of the loans approved has actually been disbursed. Obviously we all recognise that this implementation problem derives very much from the difficulties that the borrowing countries have in organising the efficient spending of funds; indeed, the poorer the country, usually the greater the difficulty in organising such expenditure, and that is why the disbursement ratio of the Development Fund is much lower than that of ordinary loans. Nevertheless, I do not think that the Bank can escape all blame for this disbursement problem. 
The Bank's procedures are, in many ways, too complex and too bureaucratic. The Bank itself admits that it is short on loan administration staff to administer the actual implementations of the loans. The Bank is too highly centralised. There is a need for more permanent offices in countries where liaison is in considerable demand. We have to recognise, and we have to say, that this disbursement problem is a significant one; it is one for which the Bank cannot escape some responsibility and its performance in this coming period must be improved. It is needful, I think, to say in this Parliament- it is one of the things the Foreign Minister should be saying and making clear- that the ADB needs to improve the disbursement procedures. 
The ADB has a rather centralised, hierarchical, rigid bureaucracy. Already I have noted that there is insufficient decentralisation. There are some signs that this unwillingness to decentralise is as great as the unwillingness to delegate authority as to the costs involved. The ADB bureaucracy has been characterised as overly cautious and marked by a reluctance to act. Perhaps the high and tax free salaries, plus the virtual impossibility of being demoted or fired, all lead to rigidity in the ADB bureaucracy. Perhaps, more importantly, the bureaucracy tends to be separated in origins and experience from the needs of the borrowing countries. For instance, the centralisation, primarily in Manila, tends to cut off the Bank from the broader experiences of the borrowing countries. The salary levels make it too easy for officers of the Bank to get out of touch with the thinking and aspirations of the masses of the poor in the societies with which they are concerned. Again, based at least on 1977 analyses, most of the key posts in the Bank tend to be dominated by personnel from the developed countries. 
I think that we in this Parliament ignore these organisational defects. Australia should play a role in striving for a more flexible, less hierarchical, perhaps less permanent bureaucracy for the ADB. We should support greater decentralisation of the bureaucracy and, above all, the creation of a bureaucracy that is more responsive to the needs of the borrower countries. 
But the fundamental reason why it is impossible to share the Foreign Minister's bland euphoria about the ADB is that the Bank, we in Australia and the agencies of the developed world are failing to stem the growing poverty and the growing inequality of the bulk of Asian peoples. The success stories of a few Asian countries and urban pockets within some other Asian countries should not blind the ADB, we in Australia and the developed world to the fact that the condition of the rural masses in Asia is deteriorating and continuing to deteriorate. Whatever our purpose in Asia, whether positive, humanitarian or the creation of the socioeconomic conditions for pluralist democracy, or simply negative, that is, the prevention of communism and the stemming of revolutionary uprisings, all those purposes are doomed if we cannot reverse the declining living standards of the rural population and the growing income inequality in Asian societies. 
The source of this pessimistic assessment of mine is a document already mentioned, that is the 1978 Second Asian Agricultural Survey commissioned and published by the ADB as  Rural Asia: Challenge and Opportunity.  That survey jettisons the false euphoria of plenty amongst development planners, which was reflected in the First Asian Agricultural Survey of 1968; a false euphoria of plenty still shared by the Foreign Minister. Let me cite some of the grim and dismal findings from the survey. Firstly, it reads: 
There is a general consensus that the problem of rural poverty has considerably worsened in the past decade - 
It has considerably worsened in the past decade- .  and is aggravated by increasing inequality of income. Indeed, it is now estimated in the countries we are concerned with that 3SS million people are living below the poverty line. 
I seek the leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  a chart produced by that survey. The chart illustrates the proportion of the rural population living in poverty. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811150_67_2.jpg"></graphic>

<para pgwide="yes">Bangladesh- M. . Alamgir, 'Poverty, Inequality and Social Welfare: Measurement, Evidence and Policies',  Bangladesh Development Studies,  Vol. 3, No. 2, April 1975, pp. 153-80. 
<para pgwide="yes">India- A. Vaidyanathan, 'Some Aspects of Inequalities in Living Standards in Rural India ', cited in D. Kumar 'Changes in Income Distribution and Poverty in India: A Review ofthe Literature',  World Development,  Vol. 2, No. 1, January 1974, pp. 31-41. .NCAER,  Changes in Rural Income in India,  1968-7 1 , New Delhi, December 1975. 
<para pgwide="yes">Indonesia- Banc  Economic Report: Indonesia Development Prospects and Needs,  IBRD, Report No. 708-IND. April 1975. 
Malaysia-  -Problems 01 Rural Poverty in Malaysia,  IBRD/FAO, February 1975 (mimeo). 
<para pgwide="yes">Pakistan-T. Alauddin, 'Mass Poverty in Pakistan: A Further Study',  Pakistan Development Review,  Winter 1975, pp. 431-50. 
<para pgwide="yes">Philippines- M. A. S. Abrera, 'Philippine Poverty Threshholds' in  Measuring Philippine Welfare,  Development Academy ofthe Philippines, Manila, 1975. Thailand-O. E. Musook, 'Income Inequality in Thailand, 1962-63 and 1 968-69 ' quoted in M. Alamgir,  op. cil. 
In Bangladesh 94 per cent of the rural population live in poverty. In India half the rural population live in poverty. In Pakistan 58 per cent live in poverty and in the Philippines 64 per cent live in poverty. Secondly, I again quote from the findings of the survey which reads: 
The new technology essentially did nothing to curtail the growing number of landless labourers. 
Thirdly, and again I quote: 
The most optomistic view which can be taken of the food situation is that the region is not much worse now than at the time ofthe first agricultural survey. 
-When I was interrupted by the adjournment of the House some 22 hours ago I was arguing that the Asian Development Bank, despite its great virtues, has a number of defects or problems which we should note- not that we should note these simply for the sake of criticism but so that the Australian Government can make a creative and constructive input in trying to solve these problems. I suggested three major problems, two of them institutional, one relating to the disbursement of ADB funds: The second to some of the problems associated with the bureaucracy of the Bank. At the end I was discussing the most important problem of all, that is, the fact that the Bank, Australia and the industrialised nations have been involved in the last decade in what appears to be a development failure of quite awesome proportions in relation to rural poverty in Asia. 
The evidence for this pessimistic conclusion is a publication of the Asian Development Bank itself- the Second Asian Agricultural Survey. I was quoting some points from that survey- I will repeat them- that give a very pessimistic picture of the situation over much of rural Asia, that is, the area covered by the Asian Development Bank. The first point, and I quote from the survey, reads: 
There is a general consensus that the problem of rural poverty has considerably worsened in the past decade. 
I stress again the words 'the problem has considerably worsened in the past decade'. That is the consensus of most involved in the field. Indeed, it is estimated that in the area covered by the Bank's concerns some 3SS million people are living in poverty. Secondly, and again I quote from the survey: 
The new technology essentially did nothing to curtail the growing number of landless labourers. 
That is, the development technology introduced did nothing to curtail the growing number of landless labourers in Asia. Thirdly, and again I quote from the survey: 
The most optimistic view which can be taken of the food situation is that the region is not much worse now than at the time of the First Asian Agricultural Survey in 1 968. 
That is, over ten years, the best that can be said of the situation is that it is not much worse now. 
If the present situation creates enormous problems, the prospect for the future is even more bleak. There are some projections in the survey that I think need to be drawn to the attention of the policy-makers in this country. Owing to the inability of the green revolution to raise agricultural output at a faster rate than population output there will be a worsening food grain deficit in the whole region by 1985. The survey produced two estimates- an optimistic high agricultural growth situation and a pessimistic low agricultural growth situation. The survey admitted that the pessimistic projection is the most realistic. I refer to the import of that low agricultural growth situation. By 1985, as compared with 1972, Indonesia's food grain deficit- that is, its import requirements over its production- will have increased four times. Bangladesh's food grain deficit will have increased three times. The food grain deficit of Malaysia and the Philippines will have increased two times. Pakistan's food grain deficit will have increased twenty-five times. Overall for the region a 1972 deficit of eight million tons will by 1985 be a deficit of 46 million tons of food grain- a five-fold increase in the food grain deficit. Even if one takes the optimistic calculation- that is, the high agricultural growth assumption- there will be nearly a fourfold increase. 
Let me refer now to the projections on unemployment in the region. Apart from a handful of east Asian success stories, it is estimated that by 1985 unemployment will have increased throughout most of the Asian countries. The survey did certain calculations on some small Asian nations. It was calculated that 23 per cent to 27 per cent of the population of Sri Lanka will be unemployed in 1985. The calculation for Burma was between 9 per cent to 15 per cent. For Malaysia it was 4 per cent to 1 1 per cent, and for the Philippines it was 12 per cent to 17 per cent. Unemployment for India, Bangladesh and Indonesia is both too difficult to calculate and too awesome to contemplate. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing the food grain deficit. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811161_81_0.jpg"></graphic>

Why is there this depressing picture of development in rural Asia? What are the reasons for this failure? It is certainly failure for which the Asian Development Bank alone cannot be blamed but it cannot escape some responsibility. Let it be said that it would be unfair to lump it with anything like total responsibility. Basically the failure is due both to the execution of development policies and to the conception of development pursued by the Bank and the associated developed nations over the past decade. This was pointed out in the  Far Eastern Economic Review  of 1 977 well before the Second Asian Agriculture Survey emerged. The  Far Eastern Economic Review  stated: 
The Asian Development Bank has . . . spent relatively too much on urban- and particularly metropolitanprojects, and too much on export oriented projects, whether utilities, transport, agriculture, or industry, without sufficient regard for the need for employment and raising subsistence levels. 
For instance, 33. 1 per cent of loans of the Development Fund have been allocated to utilities, mainly in urban areas, and only 23.S per centless than a quarter- on agriculture. This reflects a considerable misreading of the urgent needs of agricultural development in the region. Again, the tendency of the Bank to favour loans for high capital intensive projects has both militated against agriculture and exacerbated unemployment. Therefore, allocating greater reserves to agriculture and supporting development involving simpler and cheaper intermediate technology are responses the Bank needs to make. But such responses provide no easy remedies because of more fundamental underlying problems. First of all, because of the inequitable distribution of land over much of the region, aid to agriculture may simply perpetuate inequities between rich and poor, and there is much evidence that this is what agricultural aid has done. Secondly, the hope that the effects of the green revolution and economic growth in the towns would percolate down to the poor now seems mistaken. Rather, the reverse has happended. There has been a sucking-up process', which seems to have occurred throughout the region with the benefits going disproportionately to the urban and rural elites. Without land reform the work of the ADB and the resources that Australia and other nations give to the Bank will simply fan the tensions of rural Asia. I think we have to admit this. If we go on pouring our resources into Asia without land reform it will simply encourage the tensions developing in the area. Even land reform in itself is now no panacea given the enormous size of the landless rural proletariat, the great bulk of whom could not hope to share in any land redistribution. 
I think that we have to confess that today the objective conditions for revolution exist across much of Asia. It can be argued, of course, that the objective conditions have existed for decades or even centuries, but as the Agricultural Survey notes: 
. it is only due to the timeless patience of these people that more upheaval and more revolutionary violence did not materialise during the past 10 years. 
But the Survey is not sanguine about the future; nor can we be. As the Survey points out, the objective conditions for revolution are now being given subjective awareness: 
The impetus for equality is rapidly becoming a part of the consciousness of the vast masses of the underdeveloped countries ... it will soon be a revolutionary force challenging the entire ideological and institutional framework of social existence. 
Time is running out for all who hope for evolutionary change in Asia. The ADB, Australia, the developed world and above all the elites of developing Asia need drastically to rethink and revamp developmental policies. We cannot afford the complacency reflected in the Foreign Minister's speech. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
1) Is it a fact that the Australian Embassy in Rome was unable to satisfy the request of the Association of Migrants Returned from Australia for books and magazines to help maintain English language skills and keep members abreast of Australian developments. 
If so, will he ensure a more sympathetic response to similar requests in future. 
-Ten days ago, 1 1 November, was the third anniversary of what we would all agree was the most traumatic and divisive constitutional crisis in this nation's history. Of the three major protagonists in that crisis, one has fled into a comfortable exile in the English home counties, a most appropriate resting place for one of his social pretensions; the second has retired from politics to a great Australian institution, a most appropriate home for an Australian of his intellect and breadth of vision; the third, the one most responsible for the perversion of our parliamentary customs and traditions, remains as Prime Minister, a continuing symbol of the bitterness and division unleashed by the events of November 1975. Until he is brought down and removed from power, that bitterness and division will remain in our society. Tonight, I am concerned not with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  but with his ally on that fateful day. The ex-Governor-General,  Sir John  Kerr. It has scarcely been possible in the last 10 days to escape that jolly - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  There is no point of order. 
It has been scarcely possible to escape that jolly, cherubic countenance.  His  picture stares out at one each day from practically every newspaper in this country. We cannot avoid facing up to him. The selling of  Sir John  Kerr has been a most high powered commercial operation. One of the things we can all say is that the fulsome coverage  Sir John  has had in the last 10 days contrasts sharply with the shabby treatment of the Press when he disappeared into exile in Paris 1 1 months ago. Perhaps there is a need for this kind of commercialisation of  Sir John.  It is probably a stark necessity. As with  President  Nixon, there is a great danger that there will be a campaign in this country known as 'Don't buy books by crooks'. 
Personally, I am not much interested in what we have read to date, that is the autobiographical elements of  Sir John's  memoirs. The rise of the boilermaker's son from Balmain to chief lackey and hatchet man of the Australian establishment is not one I find a very edifying example of Australian life; nor do I find particularly interesting the description of the various parts of France and Britain where he happened to write his memoirs. If  Sir John  Kerr is to retain any shred of respectability there are at least three questions we should demand that his memoirs answer. Honest judgment of this man will depend on the answer he provides to these questions. Let me suggest the three questions we should look for once he has passed the rise and rise and once he has passed his obsession with his Parisian sojourns, his hideouts in the Auvergne and in his home county present situation. These are the three questions I think we should expect the memoirs to answer. They are, in fact, the only important things likely to emerge from this document. Firstly, why did he seek advice from the Chief Justice against constitutional precedent without the knowledge and in defiance of the wishes of his Prime Minister? Even his most ardent defenders, those people who are prepared to defend him at least intellectually- I am not talking about the rabble- cannot defend this action. Even men like Professor O'Connell, who has been a very active defender says that that act was an example of deviousness which he cannot defend. He cannot defend this action. That is the first question. Why did he do that in defiance of constitutional precedent and the advice of his own Prime Minister? 
Secondly, why did he act on 1 1 November rather than wait for a possible political solution which would have left the Vice-Regal office untarnished? There was no immediate difficulty over Supply. It had a fortnight to run.  Sir John  knew from the then Leader of the Opposition that he merely had to grant a dissolution to get the Budget through that day. Therefore, there was another fortnight to go in which he could have- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Although I have devoted much of my adult life to a study of this institution, I had imposed upon myself a self-denying ordinance that I would not comment on the procedures of this House until I had some practical experience of them. Having now spent some 10 months in Parliament I would say a little about two of those procedures; firstly, Question Time and, secondly, the handling by this House of the Estimates for the year. Firstly, I think we would all agree that Question Time is extremely lopsided. It is a system which functions at the moment overwhelmingly in favour of the Executive as against the legislature. I do not want to put this in particular party terms because it seems to me that the lopsidedness disadvantages the total Parliament- perhaps particularly the Opposition- but indeed the whole Parliament. David Solomon wrote in relation to questions:   the contest between those who ask the questions and those who answer them is most unevenly weighted in favour of those on the receiving end of the question. 
I simply remind those honourable members on the Government side whose horizons are narrowly partisan, who welcome this lopsidedness because at the moment it favours their parties, that governments are peculiarly ephemeral. Honourable members opposite might spend the coming two years considering the needs of the Opposition in relation to the question period. Basically I direct my appeal to all those who believe that we must restore the balance between the legislature and the Executive. It is the task of all who believe in some sort of effective parliamentary democracy. We need a commitment to the restoration of the authority of the Parliament. The concern here is not in any way to emasculate government but to make the Parliament once more a worthwhile institution. 
I suggest three relatively minor amendments to Standing Orders which would do much to remove the lopsidedness of the question period: Firstly, there should be the right to ask relevant supplementary questions. A single question is an extremely soft-nosed torpedo. Without provision for supplementaries there is little opportunity to expose weak, evasive or inadequate answers from Ministers. A disciplined system of supplementaries would make Question Time a far more effective arena for this House. Secondly, there should be an insistence that ministerial answers be succinct. It is a requisite, and it is insisted on by the  Speaker,  that questions themselves be short. Equally, we need to insist that ministerial answers be succinct. An answer necessarily may have to be somewhat longer than the question. I recognise that. But there is no excuse for the present situation whereby, on a brief calculation, the period given to answers on average is five times as much as the period given to questions. Much of the verbiage is simply waffle and much of the ministerial answers is irrelevant waffle. 
I did a cautious estimate of this week's answers and questions which suggested that at least half the time- I think that is a fairly objective calculation- the answers were simply irrelevant to the questions asked by honourable members. As a House we should insist much more strongly on relevance in ministerial answers simply to increase for all of us- not just the Opposition- the value of Question Time. 
Of course those who have followed my argument to date will recognise that it implies necessarily a more critical and independent role for the  Speaker.  I make no apology for this. One of the key ways of restoring the authority of this House is to turn the  Speaker  from a creature of party to an independent servant of the House. I mean no particular criticism of the  Speaker  by that remark. It is simply that we have given him an impossible task because we have tied him to a party yet expect him to be an adjudicator. 
I turn now to my other point, that is, the Estimates. Much of the time of the House in September and October was devoted to desultory and dreary consideration of the details of the expenditure proposals of the Government. Are there any honourable members who would defend the futility of those proceedings? They were quite useless for effective consideration of the details of the Government's financial proposals and as a means of interchange between Ministers and back benchers. Indeed, one former member of this House who has now fled to another chamber commented: 
Probably realising the futility of the whole proceedings, many members do not seem to read the Estimates that are being debated and approved; they merely take the opportunity to make political points on policy issues. 
Even when an honourable member reads the Estimates- that is if he can understand them given the somewhat obfuscatory way in which they are framed- the rewards are minimal. I take just two personal examples. I went to great length in relation to one of the Estimates debates on the problem of unemployment payments this year. Yet in reply there was not a single squeak out of the responsible Minister against the facts and figures produced. Again, I made some comments on the details of overseas aid and all I got was a neurotic burst from the Minister concerned that did not address itself to the gravamen of my charge. I am sure that every honourable member in this House could cite examples of that kind of experience during the Estimates debates. 
This failure of the House to develop contemporary procedures for dealing with expenditure proposals of the Government contrasts sharply with the achievement of the Senate where appropriate machinery in the form of Estimates committees has been established. An assessment of these committees is stated approvingly by the  Clerk  of the Senate:  the new system of examining the Estimates enabled Senators to probe and obtain far more information from Ministers and departmental officers than was possible under the former Committee of the Whole procedure. 
Which we still pursue- 
Senators for the first time had the opportunity to question the departmental specialists responsible for the carrying out of policies. Furthermore, the question and answer sessions provided unique opportunities for the officers themselves to communicate directly with Senators, to explain policies and aspirations, and to establish a closer relationship and understanding between Parliament and the Public Service. 
Is it not extraordinary that the Senate should have machinery to probe and to obtain information on finance denied to the House of Representatives? Is it not extraordinary that the senators are provided with an opportunity, denied to most members of the House of Representatives, to question and to probe departmental specialists on the Estimates? The contrasts go even further. All honourable members are no doubt familiar with the explanatory notes on estimated expenditure issued by each Department. Those documents go by right to each member of the Senate. Members of the House of Representatives have to beg, borrow or steal them. They certainly do not get them by right in the way they are supplied to senators. 
All these procedures diminish and impair the financial authority of this House. Yet under the Constitution it is the House of Representatives, not the Senate, which is given the primacy in financial matters- despite the diminution of that authority which occurred in 1975. Clearly under the Constitution the chief financial prerogatives lie with the Representatives, not the Senate. The consequence of this is that the Representatives, not the Senate, needs the most appropriate and contemporary machinery for dealing with financial matters. It is interesting that the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System recognised this. In its report it stated: 
It is the constitutional responsibility of the House of Representatives to oversee financial matters. A corollary of this proposition is that the Senate need not retain its Estimates committees. 
So far, so good. The Committee recognised the constitutional principle plus the implication of it. But at that stage sense and fortitude deserted that Committee. Listen to this as an example of the worst kind of evasion which then followed. The report stated: 
Whilst the Committee acknowledges the general constitutional principle, it considers that the interests of economy and efficiency require the continuation of this established procedure of the Senate. 
This was a triumph of expediency over constitutional principle. 
If we are to arrest the erosion of the financial authority of this House and to provide in this House more effective ways of scrutinising the financial activities of the Executive we need to replace the present dreary, desultory and pointless Estimates debates with effective Estimates committees. Our constitutional purists might be horrified but given our numbers and the limited parliamentary and support services of the Australian Parliament and to avoid needless duplication in questioning it might well be worth considering joint parliamentary Estimates committees. Certainly if we are to arrest the decline of the authority of this House of the legislature, over financial matters, we seriously have to reconsider, and immediately, the procedures in this House for dealing with the Estimates. 
-First, I would like to echo the remarks made by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  about the promptness of the response by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  to this latest collection of erstwhile unrecognised problems in his rather hastily prepared health Bill. On the other hand, I suspect that the fact we do not meet in December is the only reason we will not be having a National Health Amendment Bill No. 4 in this session. I think we should be grateful that the present BUI is not a further massive switch in the health policies of this ministry, as were its two immediate predecessors. In many ways it is a minor BUI and I would predict the first of many minor Bills which the Ministry wil need in order to plug the present health scheme. 
I refer to a brief section of the BUI, section 9, and the incredible complexity of the clauses. In reading 105AB, 73BE, 4aa and 73BFB I was reminded of, if I may be a little flippant, the taxation Acts. That suggested to me that perhaps the Minister was really determined to challenge the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  As the Treasurer introduces a tax avoidance BUI practically every month these days in order to plug the tax system, I suspect we are now in for a series of monthly Bills from the Minister for Health in which he Will be plugging the national health system. I would not be at all surprised if in the next session of this Parliament we regularly encounter Bills to plug gaps in the national health system, gaps which have been referred to in this debate. 
What are the gaps that this particular Bill is plugging? I do not want to go into it in too much detail because these have been mentioned in this debate by both sides of the House, but we might nickname the Bill the 'Hospital Contributions Fund Disallowance Bill' since it was specifically stimulated by the Hospitals Contributions Fund's effort to disallow 100 per cent cover to some of the chronically ill. Despite many denials it does seem these rules providing for this exclusion were approved by the Health Department. Indeed it does not seem unreasonable for these HCF rules to have been approved, nor does it seem that the HCF was acting unreasonably when it introduced them, because if you take the words of the Minister he positively encouraged this sort of development in the health system. 
If the Minister argues that he 'quite deliberately allowed flexibility, innovation and competition between the funds', was not the HCF being flexible? It was minimising its bad risks, maximising its good risks; a good flexible insurance principle. It was being innovative. It was merely the first to recognise that free enterprise is alive and well in the health insurance field and was acting appropriately. It was certainly being competitive because what better competitive principle is there in the insurance business than to drive your bad risks over to your competitors? Once you decide to have an active free enterprise system in the health insurance field- and this has been actively encouraged by the Governmentyou will get these kinds of activity. I think it was naive of the Minister to expect other behaviour from the funds and after two years experience of them I am surprised that he was caught on the hop and forced to act in this way. 
You will control this kind of activity only by massive and complex legislation and by creation of a much enlarged bureaucracy at considerable cost; this bill is the start of the process. Once you have this ethic at work in the health field you will control it only by massive regulation, by increased bureaucracy and increased cost. This bill is the first step down that path and an inevitable step. It will be followed by more. 
The Bill has four major provisions which I will not reiterate and, as the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  said, we on this side support those four provisions. We believe them to be necessary given the scheme that the Government has now fathered. But there are two comments I would make about those provisions. 
First, nearly all of them would have been unnecessary if Medibank Mark I had been maintained; that is, nearly all of them are the result of the changes that have been made in the system and each of them adds to the complexity of the present scheme. As I said before, it is becoming like the taxation system, a confused labyrinth for the ordinary citizen. Further, I fear that because of the structure of the medical scheme this Bill represents the first and, unfortunately, a necessary step into an ever deepening morass. 
Why do I argue that? I feel it is necessary to justify it. 
As this Bill superbly illustrates, to encourage flexibility, innovation and competition between the funds- in other words, to encourage rampant free enterprise in the health field- is simply to encourage abuse. I do not believe that unbridled private insurance agencies is compatible with effective and adequate community health delivery. If the insurance ethic is to be pursued logically the chronically ill have to be jettisoned or charged peculiarly high rates. That is a perfectly sensible thing for insurance organisations, as insurance organisations, to do. As I said, they try to maximise the good risks and minimise the bad risks. This is perfectly logical for health insurance agencies to do- good free enterprise ethics. Of course the private agencies will seek to exploit the system at every opportunity in order to maximise their contributions and to minimise their pay-out on claims. 
Of course no government- not even this onecan tolerate unbridled free enterprise in the health field. Therefore, as in this Bill, it will seek to constrain and to confine the free enterprise principle to limit its worst ravages. As with tax evasion, each effort to confine it will produce new evasions and thus a demand for new rules, new bureaucratic oversights. It is not a pleasant prospect that looms before us. Moreover, the prospect is clouded by the significant deductible element in the new scheme. There are two major aspects of the deductible element. One is the massive and obvious deductible- no levy, no insurance. Innumerable other deductibles are being brought forward in the competitive struggle between the funds. The classic problem with the deductibles is that if they are sufficiently attractive- in the competitive situation they are likely to be attractive- they will draw off the young, the healthy and those wealthy enough to take the risks. All those people will be drawn off from the standard tables of the funds. Thus the cost of standard cover must inevitably rise because the good risks have departed. This means that the cost of health cover will tend to rise for the sick and the poor. One can predict with the same certainty as that the sun will rise tomorrow that basic fund rates must rise within the next 12 months, simply because of the draining off of the young and healthy from the standard tables of the funds. 
The principle of an equitable and universal health system is gradually being eroded to be replaced by the insurance principle that the sick, the old, the handicapped and people with large families must bear the bigger financial burden. My view is that the only benefit that will come in the long run from the present scheme will be the hope that it will convince an increasing majority of Australians that the most equitable and fairest system is to have a single universal scheme to which everyone contributes according to his means and on which everyone draws according to his needs. If such a system were properly supervised it would not only be the most equitable; it would be more efficient than a mass of competing agencies. It would be less expensive than a host of competitive funds with their massive advertising bills. We have seen plenty of evidence of that in recent weeks. It would be more capable of yielding the comprehensive health statistics which though we have been promised them for some time we are still without. Finally, it would be more capable of enforcing cost constraints than the present system of a host of agencies which indeed will tend to generate costs for the whole community. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
-The Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 is essentially a machinery Bill which endeavours to deal with a set of apparently unforseen difficulties which arose out of the major changes made to the Broadcasting and Television Act following the Green report. Those changes were made in 1977. A principal change was to transfer the power to grant and renew licences for broadcasting and television from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. In addition the 1977 Act also laid down specific times for the lodgement of applications and renewals and for submissions relevant to those applications and renewals. These were two changes that emerged in 1977. 
This Bill is designed to clear up the administrative chaos that followed those changes. Let me detail some of the chaos that was involved this year in the effort to carry through those changes. There was considerable confusion, in part created by the  Chairman  of the Broadcasting Tribunal, as to the appropriate form which public radio licence applications should take. As a result of this and other matters some 26 applications were not formally correct. In addition, with reference to the public broadcasting applications, there seems to have been a failure of the Tribunal regularly to clear its post office box, as evidenced in articles in the  National Times  in early September. The problem in relation to television renewals arose from an inconsistency in the original Act which stipulated that new licence applications should be lodged with the Tribunal, but that renewal applications should be lodged with the Minister. As a result of this inconsistency all the Adelaide renewals were mistakenly lodged with the Tribunal and not with the Minister as the Act required. 
Although it is beyond the Bill to ensure that the Tribunal clears its post office box regularly, the Bill does seek to clear up the chaos which has arisen in the other fields. It does this firstly by introducing much greater flexibility in the procedural arrangements for lodging original and renewal applications and related submissions and documents; secondly, it ensures that all applications for licences and renewals will in future be directed to the Broadcasting Tribunal and not to the Minister; and thirdly, it includes sections to validate retrospective the public broadcasting applications and the televison renewal applications. 
The Opposition welcomes these amendments as both necessary and desirable. We believe that the direction of licence renewals to the Tribunal and not to the Minister is hopefully a further depoliticisation of licensing matters. We certainly welcome that change. We also welcome the greater flexibility with respect to applications and submissions which will be of benefit in our view both to the applicants and to the Tribunal. But the Opposition would fail in its duty if it did not deplore the administrative mess which gave rise to these amendments and to these retrospective changes. The retrospective changes themselves indicate the failure of the Minister in the middle part of this year to ensure that proper procedures were observed when licence applications and renewals were lodged. I think it is important to deplore this failure because these public radio licence hearings marked the very first occasion of such licence grants by the Tribunal. Equally, the television licence renewals were of great significance as the first public renewal hearings held by the Tribunal. As such they were central elements in the concept of pubhe accountability of licence holders. It is disturbing that in both of these pioneering undertakings by the Tribunal, considerable irregularities occurred. 
What were the reasons for the irregularities that took place? I think two major points seem to have been neglected in the original legislation and are perhaps not fully covered even by this legislation. The Tribunal does not appear to have sufficient administrative and legal competence to ensure that the provisions of the Act are properly observed. That seems to be one major weakness which explains many of the irregularities that took place in May, June and July of this year. Secondly the Tribunal perhaps did not fully understand the inconsistency I have already mentioned between renewal and application procedures. When the applications were heard in Adelaide the Tribunal clearly did not realise or did not appear to realise that there was an inconsistency in the Act under which it was operating. This anomaly meant that the applications for the licence renewals for the Adelaide stations were lodged, quite incorrectly with the Tribunal. Under the Act, they should have been lodged with the Minister. Moreover, as I have said, the Government's embarrassment and the Minister's embarrassment were further compounded by the administrative incompetence of the Tribunal which failed to ensure that in regard to the public broadcasting applications its post office box was regularly cleared. It seems that simply because of this omission a number of applications were received by the Tribunal after the appropriate date. 
As I have said, the Opposition welcomes the amendments which give the Tribunal greater discretionary powers to extend any deadlines for submissions, applications, renewals, evidence or replies to submissions. We welcome this kind of power in the hands of the Tribunal to see that in future we will have fair and relatively impartial hearings conducted with a degree of administrative flexibility which this Bill endeavours to provide. But we are worried about some of the factors that have led to its introduction. This is another sign of the incompetence at the administrative level that we are finding in many places under this Government. We welcome the corrections that have been made. We would like to draw attention to what still seem to be weaknesses in the legal and administrative support staff of the Tribunal, but we believe that at least this Bill is a start in correcting the anomalies that turned up in the middle of this year. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
How many Community Youth Support Scheme projects have been started in South Australia since the scheme was established. 
What are, or were, the titles of these projects. 
What has been the expenditure on each of the projects to date and what expenditure allocations have been made to date for particular projects in 1978-79. 
In which electoral divisions in South Australia are, or were, these projects located. 
Which of these projects (a) have ceased voluntarily and (b) have been terminated or refused continued funding by the Departmental committees concerned. 
What were the reasons in each case for the termination, or the refusal of further funds. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
With reference to tender No. TP79/2, what were the reasons for rejecting a lower bidder. 
If estimated delivery was the reason for accepting a higher under, why was urgency of delivery not specified in the original tender. 
Has the successful bidder met the quoted delivery time. 
-Does the Prime Minister recall his 1975 election promise to provide jobs for all who want to work and his 1977 election forecast that unemployment would fall after February 1 978 and keep on falling? In view of the fact that the number of registered unemployed has increased by 230,000 since his Government has been in office and is now 6 1 ,000 above February last year, will he now admit that in both respects he completely misled the Australian people? Can he advise the House how much longer he will continue to apply the economic policies that have had such tragic effects on the labour market? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
How many persons are employed under the Community Youth Support Scheme in each State. 
What training programs are offered to CYSS project officers. 
What support of a day-to-day nature is given to CYSS project officers by his Department. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Are the Community Youth Support Scheme policy and guidelines for local committees absolutely binding. 
Can State committees waive clauses to allow for special conditions in a particular CYSS project. 
In the drawing up of the CYSS policy and guidelines for local committees, were project officers consulted; if so, is it possible to identify their particular input into the guidelines. 
If they were not consulted, what were the reasons. 
-Until tonight I had considerable respect for the position taken by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck).  However, I think after the speech we have just heard and the performance that has just been given it is difficult to retain that respect. If the honourable member for Franklin believes that what we are doing tonight is simply a political ploy then he can stay on that side of the House tonight and introduce his Bill tomorrow. Further, as a sign of the sincerity and conviction of our position, whatever he does tonight, we will support his measure tomorrow because we are consistent in our opposition to this decision in the Budget. He has his opportunity. If he really believes in his cause and believes that tonight is simply a political stunt then let him stay on that side of the House tonight. If that is the reason for doing so, then tomorrow let him introduce the Bill that he believes in and we will continue to support it. As my colleagues have said, the issue tonight is, firstly, the credibility of the Government. Secondly, however, it is the credibility of each member on the Government benches who followed the Ministry into a campaign last year in which certain pledges were made. Thirdly, and most importantly, it is a test of the compassion, the sense of social equity of each member of the Government benches. We heard the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  tonight talking about how this paltry $2 7m- that is all that is involved this year, this paltry $27m- was somehow going to threaten inflation in this country. The Government has already got a deficit of $2, 800m and is likely to have a deficit of $3,500m. We have listened tonight to the Minister saying that $27m would set off an inflationary spiral. Let us look at the facts of what your leaders said when they went to the people in December 1977, and I quote from the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser): 
We have taken politics out of pension increases by linking them automatically with the Consumer Price Index. 
That is not quite sufficient; with this Prime Minister you have to watch every tiny word. But the implication was clear, a commitment to pension increases by linking them automatically with the consumer price index. If that was not clear enough, those words echo an even clearer commitment made by the Prime Minister in the same year in which he said: 
We are committed to take politics out of pension increases by giving automatic increases in line with price rises twice a year. 
That was an unequivocal commitment given in March 1977. Those words in March 1977 echoed again in December 1 977. As I have said before in this House, the problem with any pledges made by this Prime Minister is that they are rather like the statements of 'shonky', second hand car dealers. If the Prime Minister is not good enough- I do not believe he is any longer good enough to be trusted by the Australian people- I have greater respect for  Senator Guilfoyle  because that lady has usually kept her pledges. This is an advertisement which she gave in the election of December 1977, and I quote her words: 
We believe that to maintain the purchasing power of pensions and benefits is important. We said that we would do that and we've done it and I believe that this is one of the things that has been most thankfully received by those people who do receive them. I've had lots of people say to me 'you've given us dignity because you don't argue about our rises every six months'. 
That was an advertisement, a pledge given. Surely the people of Australia were entitled to expect with statements in the policy speech, with echoes of the Prime Minister's own statement, with statements from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  that pensioners would continue, at least in the immediate future, to be given pension rises twice yearly. You do not have to take my words about them; your own people interpreted those words in the way that I am interpreting them tonight. The honourable member for Franklin said on 27 September 
. The original commitment of at least twice a year . . . the pensioners are unfortunately being dragged back into the political arena. 
Those are the points we are making tonight. The Government said pensions were being taken out of politics and committed itself to twice yearly indexation. Here you have your own people understanding those pledges and those commitments in the way that most Australians understood them. 
Let us take the member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  where he said: 
I frankly do not think it is worth breaking a promise to nearly a million pensioners for a mere $ 1 5m. 
It is rather interesting about the honourable member for Denison. I am not sure what the figure would be when he would break a promise, but at least for $15m he was not prepared to break a promise. Then the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  even more clearly said: 
In 1975 the Liberal-Country Party coalition campaigned on the basis of automatic and instantaneous indexation of all pensions . . . The words 'automatic' and 'instantaneous ' could have left no misimpression in the minds of the community. 
He went on to say that he did not believe that that impression had been changed in the 1978 election. 
Despite these pledges and despite what appeared by implication to be an unequivocal commitment, in the very next Budget after they were made we had this removal of twice yearly indexation- the very first Budget after these pledges were made, and for relatively paltry savings. This is a critical point. In this year you save $27m. True it is that in a full year you will save up to $60m. Yet $27m for over a million people is an enourmous spread across the community. As I said before, the Government has a Budget deficit of about $3, 000m. The $27m in that $3,000m would in no way affect the inflation situation of this country. 
Then we had the Minister coming in tonight in that marvellous performance of irrelevant rhetoric in which he said that you cannot accept a Budget half way through the year, plucked out of the air. But how are you going to pay for your VIP jets- by money plucked out of the air. Something like $20m will be plucked out of the airnot in the Budget- during this year. Yet you are not prepared to pluck $27m out of the air for something like a million Australians. 
What is the excuse for this paltry saving. The excuse given in the Budget was somehow that your achievement against inflation justified your action. If you read the speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  he said that the decision has been taken in the light of the significant reduction in inflation which the Government has achieved since its return to office. All right, there has been an achievement in the inflation field, but there is nothing at all in the history of twice-yearly adjustments to justify the claim that somehow it is related to inflation or to inflation gains. In fact the Minister for Social Security denied in the Senate last September that it was related to inflation. There is nothing in the history of the whole indexation of pensions to justify it being tied to inflation. 
Again, there was much boasting about what you had achieved in inflation during the 1977 election. In fact it was the main theme that the Government talked about- its achievement in inflation. But in all those speeches there was never one suggestion that its achievements in inflation would justify annual indexation. The Government talked constantly about indexation but never mentioned once that its achievement there would justify reducing the indexation of pensions to once yearly in the very next Budget. Again, if we take this inflation matter, it is clear now that inflation will be rather static for the coming year; there is not going to be a reduction, it is going to remain at roughly the same level on all the indices we have. 
-But it is much the same as last year when you were indexing the pension twice yearly. That is the point we are trying to make tonight- not remarks way back to 1972 and 1975. 
Finally, and most importantly, the fundamental fact of this Budget decision is that it further reduces the real value of the pension. Pensioners will trail increasingly behind the cost of living adjustments. They were something like four months behind in the past but they will be a much longer period behind as a result of these changes. 
I believe that there are many honourable members on the Government side of the House who, on this issue, are honourable men. As has been noted by my colleagues, in the debates on this issue four honourable members opposite deliberately abstained from voting. It is rumoured in the Press that there are many more honourable men in the Liberal Party- men who are concerned about the plight of the pensioners and who are concerned about back bench disquiet over broken pledges. If honourable members opposite are really concerned, they are faced with a decision of principle tonight. There is no doubt that the pledges given by leaders of the Liberal Party in the 1977 Federal election campaign have been broken by the Government's decision. Therefore, if they are honourable men they will insist on the maintenance of the pledges that they followed in the election. 
In addition, it is a mean and paltry decision, a decision which, whatever the exigencies of the economy and whatever difficulties we may be in, cannot be justified. The Government cannot justify the saving of $27m in terms of the inflationary situation of the Australian economy. It is a mean and paltry decision which, if Government members are honourable men, they will reject. Finally, it is a measure of great social inequity because honourable members opposite transfer the burden of fighting inflation to among the weakest and poorest sections of the community. If honourable members opposite have any social compassion, if they are honourable men in that sense, they too will support the motion moved tonight. 
-On 7 June 1978 the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  made a statement on immigration which held out considerable promise in the field of family reunion for the ethnic communities. He talked about the prevailing very tight criteria as though he seriously intended to loosen them. He promised changes to make it easier for family members. He suggested that there were problems in extending the criteria too far to include a major proportion of more distant relatives and therefore, by implication, suggested that it would be much easier for close relatives. He made this clear when he said: 
. we respect the wish of many people to join brothers and sisters and other relatives already in Australia. 
As with so many statements of this Government there is a contrast between the implication, the promise and the actual fine print. There was a distinct improvement in the criteria for the entry of parents of people in Australia as a result of the decisions of last year. However, the criteria for other close relatives were hedged with restrictions. Non-dependent sons and daughters can now come to Australia provided they have no parent outside Australia. That is not a bad provision. One might accept that. However, in addition, they must not have a parent-in-law outside Australia, which is even more restrictive. Finally, they must have no brother or sister outside Australia. In addition to those provisions the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is, at the moment, applying a job guarantee. 
The opportunities for sons and daughters, almost the closest of relatives, to come to Australia have almost been taken away by the restrictions with which they have been hedged. Similarly, brothers and sisters of people living in Australia have exactly the same problem. Again, they must have no parent outside Australia. If they have, they cannot come in. They must have no parent-in-law outside Australia. If they have, they cannot come in. They must have no brother or sister outside Australia. If they have, they cannot come in. Again, there is a job guarantee. Whilst there have been marginal advantages in relation to two categories of very close relatives, the promise in the Minister's speech has not in any sense been met by the actual provisions. I believe that the ethnic communities were given a promise about close relatives which was implied in the Minister's speech but which has not been carried out in the practice and detail of the administration. 
The second issue I want to take up is the issue of NUMAS- the numerical multi-factor assessment system- which was introduced on the grounds that it would be consistent, nondiscriminatory, uniform and a major initiativethose are all the Minister's words- and would be welcomed by Australia's ethnic communities. It was based on economic factors and personal and settlement factors. We have been told that there are a number of factors involved, and they are all listed; but we have been given no detail, no indication, of how the points are awarded. It is impossible for members of this Parliament and members of ethnic communities to judge the scheme in detail without that information. 
Let me take an example. Four points are allocated for education, but what are the points given for? Is it nought for illiteracy and four for a university degree? Is that the range? By contrast, in Canada, which uses a similar scheme, there are 12 points for education and one point is allocated for each year of education. We can judge that scheme. Again, we are told that under our present scheme five points are allocated for competence in English. But how will that be measured? What are the standards required? How are those five points to be distributed? Again let me take the Canadian situation. In Canada 10 points are allocated for language, and we are told quite clearly that under the Canadian regulations an intending migrant would get 10 points if he was fluent in writing and speaking English and French and he would get five points if he was fluent in writing and speaking English or French. In the Australian system, there are five points for presentation, but what on earth does 'presentation' mean? Does it mean no points if you turn up naked for the interview and five points if you turn up in a Saville Row suit? We have to be told the details of how these points are to be awarded. Let me say that, unless we are given those sorts of answers, the NUMAS system is a superb method of bureacratic obfuscation both for members of this Parliament and for the ethnic communities. 
-The opportunity to speak late in this debate enables one to examine briefly the somewhat confused state of Government members as they wrestle with the complexities of a revolutionary, and in many ways, threatening world. First of all, the debate has given us the Liberal Party epitaph on the war in Vietnam. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  pronounced that when he stated: 
The fact remains that even if not one Australian soldier had ever served there - 
That is in Vietnam- the circumstances we see in South East Asia today would be basically the same. 
It seems to me that if the honourable member for Bradfield is saying, as he appears to be, that Vietnam was not worth the bones of a single Australian grenadier then he and his party are simply belatedly recognising what we have been arguing for over a decade. Secondly, if one reads the speeches one will find an extraordinary bewilderment about the Government's foreign alliances. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  while waxing eloquent against what he called 'atheistic communism' told us and the country that the 'atheistic communists', that is, the China brand, 'have infinitely more confidence and infinitely more trust in a future allied to our'- that is the Country Partyphilosophy and politics than in that of the Opposition'. So here we have the honourable member for Kennedy arguing an alliance between the Government and what he called  atheistic communists ' of the Chinese brand. 
Now while the honourable member for Kennedy was pursuing the links between his Government and atheistic communism, the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  was denouncing the  President  of our ally, the United States, in terms of quite unmeasured viciousness. In relation to  President  Carter he used phrases such as: 'Dormant disaster; latter day Nero; somebody caught with his pants down; and there must be someone smarter than clean old Carter'. Let me say that the  President  and his administration unlike, I think, any American administration since the Second World War, have avoided the delusion of globalism, that is, the illusion that there is an American solution to every world problem, that every local upheaval calls for American counteraction and that every American client government overthrown by its own people is defined somehow as a gain for Moscow. It seems to me that the present American regime, for all its faults and errors in foreign policy, has realised much more clearly than has any other Government since the Second World War that there is, in fact, not an American solution for every global problem. Indeed the  President  can defend himself much better than I can. On 22 February he stated: 
We need to resist the temptation ... to see all changes as inevitably against the interests of the United States, as a kind of a loss for 'us' or a victory for them' . . . We need to see what is happening not in terms of simplistic colours, black and white, but in more subtle shades . . . 
That is a lesson that I think the honourable member for Deakin could learn. I think it is also a lesson that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  might well contemplate. That brings me to the glittering superficialities of the Foreign 
Minister. When we first read the Foreign Minister's statement, despite the somewhat grim nature of the events he is describing, it is impossible not to detect a note of relief because international politics have, according to him, turned from international economic matters- of which the Foreign Minister has never had the best comprehension- to the traditional issues of power politics which are now of fundamental importance. Of course, the Foreign Minister sees himself very much as a master of these traditional issues of power politics. 
In the Foreign Minister's speech two dangers are exemplified of that kind of approach. If we give the central place to the traditional issues of power politics we may be led to forget that the threat to the peace of the world and to the security of this country derives much more fundamentally from the gap between the rich nations and the poor, between the developed and the developing nations than it does from the global ambitions of the Soviet Union or the paranoia of China. Power conflicts certainly feed upon these economic contrasts and from the traumas of economic modernisation. But traditional power rivalries are secondary, even parasitic on the destabilising effects of the contrast between rich and poor. That is the first point. We have to avoid being blinded by these traditional power political issues and forgetting what is central to the destabilisation of the modern world. 
But a second danger of the geo-political approach is that in welcoming the re-emergence of geo-politics, the Foreign Minister will be carried away by the seductive, but simplistic, visions of grand international strategy which, too often, blind men to the realities of complex local situations. Now, certainly, the Minister's statement is replete with the misleading jargon of geopolitics. He talks about 'strategic choke points', southern rim lands', 'interfaces between land and sea power'- all the jargon of the geopolitician. It is certainly clear that the Foreign Minister has been dazzled by the simplicities of grand strategy and the jargon in which it is expressed. It leads one, I think, to particularly unbalanced analyses and one of these is the role of the Soviet Union as portrayed in his comments. Let me take one example of that. To interpret the invasion of Kampuchea by Vietnam as, in essence, the actions of a Soviet puppet is the same order of misinterpretation as was the conservative interpretation of the Vietnamese civil war as part of the downward thrust of Communist China. That was a misinterpretation of the civil war in Vietnam. It is equally a misinterpretation to see the invasion of Kampuchea by Vietnam primarily as the actions of a Soviet puppet. It is about time that we in Australia recognised that Vietnam is no one's puppet. That does not excuse the invasion of Kampuchea by Vietnam. It does not mean that Vietnam will not use the Soviet Union or that the Soviet Union will not use Vietnam each in its own interest. But if we are to understand and contribute to a solution in Indo-China, we need first to focus on the history, ambitions and objectives of Vietnam and not obscure the central problem by seeing everything through anti-Soviet eyes. 
Let me take a second issue. The Foreign Minister rightly noted that all the conflicts he discussed are taking place in Third World countries. But he failed to note that every case examined by him derives from the failures of the Western powers in the decolonisation process. Each of the problems is the direct outcome of Western failure in decolonisation. In nearly every case, the failed policies were supported vociferously by the party now sitting on the Government benches. Interestingly enough, in nearly every case members of that party were blinded by their obsession with the threat of atheistic communism or with geo-political visions about the threat of the Soviet Union. In both cases such visions obscured the realities of the particular local situations. Let us just briefly examine each case. France, the United States and Australia, prevented an orderly decolonisation process in Vietnam and produced, therefore, a generation of war. The United States, backed by the then Liberal-Country Party Government welcomed the destruction of the Cambodian regime of Prince Sihanouk in 1970, the last opportunity to keep Cambodia, now Kampuchea, out of the Indo-China holocaust. In Angola, Namibia and Zimbabwe the opportunities for Soviet penetration today are the results of a generation's tolerance by Western powers, including Australia, of white minority regimes. 
In 1953, the Central Intelligence Agency coup against Mossadegh disrupted the whole national development of Iran and imposed an American client and despot on the Iranian people. The conservative government in this country in the early 1950s welcomed that coup which overthrew Mossadegh. Now the client regime which succeeded in the early 1 950s I think has been rightly described as: 'Despotism, plus blunder, plus arrogance'. It has been swept away by a popular revolt and the best our Foreign Minister can do is to pontificate darkly about: 'The very distinct limits to what the West can tolerate'. That suggests shades of gunboat diplomacy. 
What would the 'we won't tolerate it' school of the Foreign Minister have the West do? It is all very well to make these fine statements about what we will or will not tolerate but what actually can be done in these situations? Is it suggested that we conduct another CIA operation, send Western troops to save the Shah or restore a regime of our desires? Does the Foreign Minister want to send in Western armies to preserve the Pol Pot regime in Kampuchea? Would he have backed diplomatically and militarily the Portuguese regime in Angola? I give him credit for the fact that he has never actively supported the doomed regimes in Zimbabwe and Namibia. These local situations are extremely resistant to intervention by Western powers. 
Interestingly enough, at the time the Foreign Minister was talking in the Parliament about what he would or would not tolerate, Professor Schlesinger of the United States wrote a very interesting article on what he called the 'we won't stand for it' school. I think that in many ways he was talking about people such as the Foreign Minister in some of his more militant poses. What he wrote about the 'we won't stand for it' school applies quite well to the 'we won't tolerate it' school. He said: 
The 'we won't stand for it' school would dissipate American resources in a policy of shoring up unpopular governments and unstable countries round the world. And it would do so in vain because as our experience must have taught us by now, our hands are indeed clumsy. Our capacity to decide the destiny of other countries is truly limited. 
One of the most welcome signs of modern American diplomacy is the growing recognition in American circles that the United States has clear limits on the extent to which it can determine the destiny of individual countries round the world. 
What are the lessons of the past in relation to present situations? Above all, we should not exaggerate the global menace of the Soviet Union to the extent that it blinds us to the local realities of Iran, Indo-China and Southern Africa. That is not to say that we need not recognise the ambitions and designs of the great powers. I am simply saying that the great danger is to avoid the kind of geo-political outlook reflected in the Foreign Minister's speech which blinds us to the local details of the problems in Iran, Indo-China and Southern Africa. If we see the world through the distortions of geo-politics, if we see Soviet plots for geo-political ends as the source of all change in the world, the policy in the 1980s will end in another quagmire as did our foreign policy in the 1 960s. That is the lesson of the past. Let us not perpetrate the same mistakes for the very same reason; that is, let us not allow that kind of geo-political vision to blind us to the realities on the ground. 
Finally, I found one particularly perceptive remark in the speech of the Foreign Minister. He said that the Soviet Union 'is the odd man out among the great powers'. The Soviet Union occupies both a dangerous and a difficult position. In the triangular balance of power between China, the United States and the Soviet Unionone could also include Western Europe- the odd man out at the moment is the Soviet Union. The Minister noted, I think quite rightly, that there is a dangerous asymmetry between the military strength of the Soviet Union and its diplomatic isolation. On the other hand, we should realise the great benefit of that. In a sense the deep and bitter division between China and Russia gives the United States an opportunity to balance. It gives the United States distinct diplomatic advantages. People are crying out about terrible things happening to the United States. The diplomatic position of the United States is stronger today in many ways than it has been for a long time. 
What should Austrafia 's role be in that situation? Our real task should be to support the use of this diplomatic superiority by the Americans, not to advantage the narrow interests of the United States but to secure the peace of the world. We should ensure that the balancing position America now has is used in the interests of world peace and not in the narrow chauvinistic interests of the United States. 
I refer the Treasurer to his answer on 14 March 1978 in which he explained that a major reason for the anticipated blow-out of the 1977-78 deficit was that the Government's achievement in reducing inflation had run ahead of its expectations at the time it introduced the 1977 Budget. As exactly the opposite has occurred in this financial year, that is, the Government's achievement with respect to inflation is running well behind its expectations which were outlined when the Budget was introduced, can the Treasurer assure the House, on the basis of his reasoning of last March, that the deficit this financial year will not blow out beyond the Budget estimate? 
-In the time at my disposal I wish simply to make six points rather than to develop six arguments. The first point relates to the moral issue. I think it is true that, of all the issues of private morality which impinge upon the legislative sphere, this issue of abortion is morally the most difficult. Certain of the extremist feminist slogans about women having control over their own bodies seem to me morally to be question begging and the analogies treating the foetus as equivalent to a limb or an appendix are clearly morally vacuous. On the other hand, the concept of the foetus, particularly in its early stages, as being somehow morally equivalent to a person I find to be a difficult- indeed, a dubious- notion. The contention that a fertilised egg is a person, or even a potential person, which is giving away much of the argument, involves stretching the word 'person' beyond its usual boundaries. As one writer put it, it is a morally motivated piece of conceptual revisionism. 
For this reason I find the comparison between abortion and murder to be, at best, naive. It certainly is a rather odd notion. First of all, it is odd in the sense that usually the victim of a murder is an independent person and it is hard to believe that one created a murder victim in one's body when one thought that morally one was doing something quite different. It is odd, too, in that the victim of a murder in this case could not survive unless he were fed by the blood and pro,tected by the body of the murderer. It is odd also in that it is precisely the refusal of this type of protection that is claimed somehow to constitute the murder. Certainly there is no consensus in this society that abortion is analogous to murder. There is virtually a complete consensus that the few hundred murders committed each year in Australia are murders. There is no consensus that that is how abortion is treated in this society. 
No member of this House who has spoken in this debate in fact has treated the foetus as morally equivalent in status to the mother. Even by voting for the Lusher motion, a distinction is made between the status of the foetus and the status of the mother. Whilst there has been much moral inflation in this debate, we are divided essentially by notions of degree. I do not believe that any honourable member believes that abortion is morally a good thing. Where we differ is that many of us believe that, over a varying range of issues, abortion is the lesser of two evils. 
Secondly, I find it difficult to understand how, on issues of private morality such as this, we as legislators can simply impose our own moral prejudices on these kinds of private morality issues. Indeed, I think I would go further. In many ways I find it arrogant and audacious. We have all claimed for ourselves the right to make a conscience decision, yet in much of what we have said we have indicated that, if we could prevent it, women would not be able to make this decision in terms of their own conscience. We have claimed a conscience right which we are endeavouring, by financial means, to limit and in fact, in the case of many of the speeches, to prohibit altogether. What we should be doing as legislators is performing a much more complex and difficult task. We should not simply be imposing our moral views or posturing morally; we should be trying to solve the social problems which give rise to the problem of abortion. We should not be doing away with maternity allowances. We should be worrying much more about education in terms of contraception and in terms of preparing young people for the problems ahead. That is the task that we should perform as legislators. 
The third reason I bring up is the suggestion that we as legislators should not simply sit here and make these moral claims without consideration of the very real society in which we live and for which we are making laws. We are making laws for a morally pluralistic society, a society in which there are enormously widespread moral views and differing moral views on the issue of abortion. Are we simply to impose a particular moral view on a morally pluralistic society? For instance, the latest national Gallup poll on abortion, which was held in 1978, showed that 76 per cent of those interviewed favoured abortion on grounds which would be ruled out for funding by the passage of the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher).  That is the sort of society for which we are making rules. I think it is very important that we consider that. 
Again, whatever laws we make about abortion we have to recognise the realism of the society in which we live. The one true fact about abortion is that it is certain that abortion is here and there is no effective way of stopping it. We have to live with that problem and adapt and make our rules in relation to the society. When we try to make these moral rules, we will not remove the reality of the problem in this society which has run right through all societies. It is, of course, changed today because of changes in technology. If we were to pass the Lusher motion it would, at best, have a marginal impact on the rate of abortion. We certainly would make it emotionally tougher for a number of women, particularly poorer women, to have an abortion. We would add greater financial burdens to emotional burdens, particularly for the poorer sections of society. We would probably increase the number of late abortions by pushing people into the public hospitals and we might well remove a number of abortions from medically hygienic situations to backyard situations. But we would have little impact on the actual rate of abortion in society. 
The fifth point I make briefly is that it would not be unfair to caricature the Lusher motion as an attempt to use the financial power of the Commonwealth to influence the criminal law of the States. What the Lusher motion is saying to the States is: 'Whatever you think are the appropriate abortion laws, we will fund only those abortion laws which the Commonwealth thinks are legally appropriate'. There has been much talk about the Levine and Menhennitt rulings and much touting of various legal opinions on whether those rulings are valid or proper. All I can say about the Menhennitt ruling is that it was given 10 years ago and has not been effectively challenged. All I can say about the Levine ruling is that it was given five years ago and has not been effectively challenged. 
I bring up the case of the situation in South Australia, about which most of the proponents of the Lusher motion have avoided talking. The people of South Australia went through a fully democratic process to determine their abortion laws. A full select committee interviewed people with a wide range of opinion. The legislation was passed by the lower House of the State Parliament and passed by the upper House of the State Parliament. It became the law of that State. If we pass the Lusher motion we are saying that that is an inappropriate law, even though it was passed by those completely proper democratic processes. We are saying that we do not regard that law as proper and that we are not going to fund many of the abortions which are legally correct under the democratic processes of South Australia. To give other honourable members an opportunity to speak, I finish by arguing again that the motion before us should be rejected because it avoids facing up to the real problems that we have as legislators and simply seeks to impose a particular moral view on a morally divided community. It neglects the real problems our community faces with reference to abortion and the moral pluralism of that community. As we have been told by one of the Government's Ministers, this proposal is essentially moral posturing. 
I ask the Minister for National Development: Did he hold a conference with representatives of the oil companies on 13 February of this year? Did the companies, specifically Shell and BP, increase the wholesale price of petrol by 1.5c to 2c a litre, or 7c to 9c a gallon, the day after that meeting? Did the retail price of petrol, within a few days of that meeting, increase by 2c to 2.6c a litre, or 9c to 12c a gallon, at what were previously discount service stations? Does the Minister support the virtual ending of petrol discounting which followed his secret agreement with the oil companies? 
-In 1978 this Government's only original contribution to unemployment it was a pretty perverse one was the shabby statistics of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Government's only original contribution to unemployment to date in 1979 has been the instruction from the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  that the work test be more strictly applied. In making that decision the Minister acted contrary to the recommendations of the Inquiry into Unemployment Benefit Policy and Administrationthe Myers inquiry which clearly doubted the desirability of the work test and recommended that the work test as a routine measure be replaced by a work test to be exercised only where circumstances warranted it. In making this recommendation the inquiry believed that the routine application of the work test served very little purpose and was administratively objectionable. 
Despite this recommendation at a time when unemployment is reaching record levels, when there is clearly not sufficient work for all those who want it and when the work test is clearly counterproductive in terms of the work of the Commonwealth Employment Service, this Government, instead of trying to educate the public to the contemporary problem of unemployment allies itself with all those simple minded and troglodyte elements in the community who wish to blame the unemployed for their own unemployment. That is simply the essence behind tightening the work test in this situation. 
I want tonight to discuss one of the human victims of this contemptible and absurd policy.  Mr Jeff  Lawson is a constituent in my electorate. He is in his middle forties and was until April last year employed as a butcher. He has been unemployed ever since.  His  own skills as a butcher are not in high demand in my area. No vacancies for butchers have been listed by the CES in the Elizabeth area in the last three months. But  Mr Lawson,  although unable to get paid work, has both a handyman's talents and a social conscience. He has not idled away his months of unemployment. Let me indicate precisely what he has done over the last year. He has acted as a volunteer house father for the Elizabeth Family Home which cares for disturbed children and is organised by the State Department of Community Welfare. He has organised a group of the locally unemployed youth in the area to construct and run a Punch and Judy show and a House of Horrors. These have been made available to various local charities and to date have raised$500. 

 Mr Lawson, in conjunction with a group of unemployed youth, has played a leading role in the reconstruction of an old farm house as a holiday home for the housebound poor of the Elizabeth area. He acts as a handyman in a handyman's scheme run by volunteers through the Department of Community Welfare. He has served, for a small fee, as an instructor in a course for women designed to develop handyman skills for women in the home. Despite all these voluntary and socially useful activities  Mr Lawson  received the following letter on 9 March 1979: 
I refer to your claim for unemployment benefit. 
To be eligible for unemployment benefit, a person must be available for and actively seeking full time employment at all times. As it is considered by this Department that you do not satisfy this condition, you are no longer eligible for unemployment benefit. Consequently, your benefits have been terminated. 
The grounds were that technically he did not meet the requirements of the work test; that because of the activities in which he was involved he did not, quite clearly, meet a strict application of the work test. That was explained to him when he protested about these grounds. 
I am glad to say that in my community the community outrage about this decision has been such that the Department of Social Security has backed away from the decision it has made. I have no doubt that if this kind of strict and absurd application of the work test continues there will be more community outrage. Though the Department has backed away it still wishes to punish him. He has been denied a fortnight of his unemployment benefit to teach him the lesson that he cannot go on with all these socially useful activities. He has been told that because he does not have social work type qualifications he will not get a job in that field even though recently he was the runner-up out of 40 applicants for a position as a Community Youth Support Scheme project officer. He has been warned that he should not continue these kinds of activities if he wishes to qualify for the work test which the Department is required strictly to apply. 
I protest on his behalf and, I think, on behalf of thousands of other Australians who will be hit by a strict application of the work test. Every committee that has reported to this Government on this aspect has said that it might be all right to have a strict work test in times when there is plenty of employment. But in my own area where something like 6,000 people are unemployed it is socially wrong and inefficient to go on demanding this strict application. If Government members cannot make a few more original contributions to the problem in this country they should get out. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Does the Government take any responsibility for the consequences to the safety of citizens of countries to which our uranium is sold or in which it is disposed? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
Has he received complaints about the lack of adhesiveness of departure tax stamps. 
If so, what measures does he intend to adopt to rectify this situation. 
) Have departmental officers been (a) informed that the stamps are defective and (b) directed to advise travellers of this fact. 
-I suggest first of all that the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  read the report on drugs by the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare in which it recommended the decriminalisation of marihuana. The Customs Amendment 
Bill is directed against a particularly reprehensible type of capitalist, described by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  as a 'highly sophisticated businessman', the profiteer in illegal drugs. The Minister's second reading speech was much given to moral condemnation of these sleazy capitalists, these seekers of vast profits from the illegal drug trade. Indeed, it was an odd second reading speech on a Customs Bill because it contained a distinctly moralistic tone. For instance, the words 'miserable', 'unscrupulous' and 'immoral' occurred on numerous occasions. I think that we would all agree with this particular depiction of drug traffickers. But whether policies fuelled by moral outrage-, in which a moral stance is given pre-eminence over other considerations, is the best way of making rational laws to combat the drug trade in this country is, I think, more debatable. By 'rational ' I mean laws conceived in the interests of the victims or the potential victims of the drug trade. 
The Bill we are discussing has three major objectives. Firstly, it seeks powers- and I quote the Minister- 'not commonly accorded to law enforcement', to permit bugging, which is the use of listening devices to overhear personal conversations. There is a related Bill which would also provide Customs officers with the power to wire tap, that is to intercept telephone communications. Secondly, the Bill seeks to provide additional penalties for large-scale drug traffickers. Thirdly, in what is perhaps the most original part of the Bill, a scheme of pecuniary penalties is introduced to combat the sophisticated methods of disposing of or, as it is termed, the 'washing' of the profits of illegal drug trafficking. I shall deal in turn with each of these sections. 
The first objective relates to the provisions for electronic surveillance by Customs officers in relation to drug cases. These provisions relating to bugging and wire tapping are unique. Never before has the Commonwealth sought to give these powers to officers of the Australian Bureau of Customs. However, it is true that under State law- and I quote the Minister again'Commonwealth narcotics investigators are presently able to be authorised in these States to use listening devices in relation to the investigation of drug offences'. The Minister went on to say: 
From time to time they have been granted such warrants and, I assure this House, with devastating effect. 
I might just add in parenthesis that this is a superb example of the thin edge of the wedge argument. We have to be careful on what slippery slope we are poised if Ministers can simply tell us, without one jot of evidence, that these tilings are used with devastating effect. Indeed, I would think that all members, particularly of the Government parties, should pay particular attention to the devices suggested in this Bill, given the potential extension of many of these provisions to white collar crimes- and much of this Bill relates very much to approaches that have been suggested elsewhere in the world for white collar crimes. 
But let me return to my point. This is the first time in the Parliament of the Commonwealth that it has been proposed to give any officers, outside of Australian Security Intelligence Organisation officers, the power to use electronic surveillance, both bugging and wire tapping. This unique power is now to be bestowed on Customs officials. 
It is important to recognise the range of bugging instruments now widely available. There are key-hole microphones, directional microphones which can be used at a distance to pick up conversations, infinity transmitters which can be placed in the telephone handset and even laser beam devices which, I am told, are capable of detecting sounds through the vibration patterns on window panes. An enormous range of electronic devices for surveillance is now available. 
I want to say a little about the principle involved in electronic surveillance. First of all, the power to bug citizens, the power to wire tap citizens, is a power abhorrent to anyone who believes in the ordinary man's basic rights, his right to privacy and his liberty to say what he wishes in the privacy of his own home. Unless we preserve an irreducible core of privacy our whole system of civil liberties will simply become a formalistic ritual. 
Electronic surveillance is a far more insidious, far deeper affront to these basic rights than most other forms of intrusion because the individual is quite unaware of the invasion of his rights. The citizen is aware of the affront to his rights when the police search his home. He is aware of the act when officers intrude onto his property. Under our present laws, he has rights of challenge, appeal and redress. But to electronic surveillance, he has no such redress, because he is usually unaware that his privacy has been violated, that on some tape his most intimate conversations, his privileged communications, his utterances, be they unwise, revolutionary, conspiratorial, criminal, or just plain silly, are all recorded. Persons cannot ensure their privacy and their security even in their own home, against the intrusion of electronic surveillance. 
In this sense, electronic surveillance is a rather super-powerful general search warrant and, in the same way as a general search warrant, is exploratory, unselective and indiscriminate in what it records. As I have noted, these devices would record conversations which are privileged between a suspect and his lawyer, between a suspect and his doctor and between a suspect and his wife. They can also, of course, record many conversations which would be of no relevance whatsoever to the suspected offence. Of course, they are much more powerful than a general search warrant because the intrusion is hidden, it is secret and unknown. 
I merely ask honourable members to imagine the wealth of private, intimate, privileged material that would be collected as a result of the bugging and wire tapping of a house over a period of 6 months, as authorised by this Bill. The Law Reform Commission, when looking at this issue, warned: 
People will feel constrained in their words and actions in the very place where they should feel most free. This is a very high price to pay for law enforcement . . . The insecurity of a society devoid of the opportunity of private communication has only to be stated to be guarded against. 
I recognise, in this question as in nearly all questions of civil liberties, that we are involved in a delicate balancing act, in this case between the right of privacy and the justified needs of law enforcement. I have stated the case against electronic surveillance at its most powerful for two reasons. Firstly, I believe that a democratic society ignores the right of privacy at its peril. Secondly, there is no tittle of evidence that the Minister recognises this fundamental conflict. In his second reading speech there is no shred of evidence that he places any high valuation on privacy and no sense that this major invasion of privacy requires substantial public benefit to justify it. Therefore I urge the House to consider most carefully the surveillance provisions of this Bill and the wire tapping provisions of the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill as they relate to Customs. 
We need to remind ourselves that in our kind of society, liberties are not destroyed by overt actions. Rather, their erosion is abetted by good intentions. This undermining of the rights to privacy in our society results from the pursuit of good causes. No one denies that the Minister is pursuing a good cause and is displaying good intentions in his efforts to eradicate the most squalid of our white collar criminals, the drug traffickers. It is their very squalidness, the universal detestation that Australians feel for drug merchants, that constitutes the greatest danger and should make us act very carefully. It is important that our detestation of alleged drug smugglers not blind us to their rights to privacy under law. One very simple reason for doing so is that to abridge their guarantees is to abridge them for all of us. 
I am not totally opposed to the use of electronic surveillance by Customs officers in drug cases. I realise that it is quite unrealistic not to make use of new technology in criminal detection. In any society there has to be a balance, a trade-off between civil liberties and law enforcement. But let us not be stampeded into tilting this balance by the natural aversion we all have for drug traffickers. Let us not assent to this legislation without the most convincing evidence about the effectiveness of electronic surveillance in drug cases. To what extent will all this costly monitoring equipment be evaded by the real criminal element through codes, personal messages and pay phones? Is it a correct priority in the allocation of our resources? 
If the balance must be tilted in favour of law enforcement let us minimise the tilt or shift by providing the maximum in practical safeguards. Honourable members on this side of the House have already suggested some of these. Firstly, there should be judicial authorisation rather than ministerial authorisation for the use of electronic surveillance. Such authorisation should state with great particularity the offence, persons and places that are the subject of surveillance. Secondly, I think that the limit on the period of authorisation should be at the most three months, not six months. Thirdly, it is important that the Parliament has some means of checking the effectiveness of the use of these intrusive devices. Therefore, on the basis of the reports provided for under section 219L, a regular report should be made to Parliament detailing the extent of surveillance activity in these cases and some measurement of the effect of such surveillance. 
The second major objective of the Bill is to increase penalties for dealing in commercial and trafficable quantities of certain narcotic substances. The penalties are firstly life imprisonment for first offences involving a commercial quantity of the prescribed drug and, secondly, life imprisonment for a second offence involving a trafficable quantity of the prescribed drug. Such Draconian punishments which clearly satisfy society's desire to punish the drug pushers will earn the applause of all moralists. Many will welcome the putting away for life of such evil racketeers. But should we, as responsible legislators, simply endorse and applaud such severity as justly deserved? I suggest that we should at least ask two questions. Firstly, will such increases in penalties in themselves help eradicate the drug trade? Secondly, will such increases in themselves help the victims of the drug traffic, the addicts? I suggest- admittedly I do so tentatively- that the answer to both questions is no. 
The Minister rightly saw drug traffickers as highly sophisticated businessmen. He noted that the only consideration of drug traffickers is profit. That is the essential point. The question we need to ask is what effect will increased penalties have on the businessmen and their profits? The crude answer is that this Bill will increase their profits. The reason for this is that the drug market works like any other market. As the risks involved are increased the investor or seller expects a higher return, a higher profit. If the demand is inelastic, as it appears to be in the case of drugs, he will get it. Thus, quite clearly while this law will increase the risks to these people at the same time it will also certainly increase the prices and the profits. Economically, these Draconian sanctions create a crime tariff, increasing the profitability for those who can get through the net. As has been frequently pointed out, Draconian drug penalties in New York City have almost certainly exacerbated the serious drug problem in that city. 
Interestingly enough, there is a plaintive passage in the Minister's speech. He said: 
In 1977 penalties applicable to drug offences were substantially increased. 
However things got worse. The Minister continued: 
In the light of this development the Government considered that it must again, and urgently, review the scale of penalties for drug offences. 
Thus, after only two years the Government had to put up the penalties again. The definitive comment on the futility of these kinds of policies was made by Packer in his important book entitled  The Limits of the Criminal Sanction  written a decade ago. He commented on activities like those of the Minister when he stated: 
As the lack of deterrent efficiency becomes apparent, penalties are increased in the hope that they will make up in severity what they lack in certainty ... the successive increases in the penalties for trafficking in narcotics may be viewed as a fever chart of the deterrent inefficiency of that group of laws. 
For the addict hooked on drugs who must be our prime concern the price increase as a result of the upping of the criminal tariff simply mires him deeper into a criminal environment, compelling him to steal and commit the whole range of petty crimes familiar in the drug scene. We must ask ouselves as legislators whether this is really the best way to act in the interests of the addict himself or herself. 
A further series of dangers consequent upon a policy of very high penalties was pointed out in the  National Times  on 7 April. I draw the attention of honourable members briefly to them. They have already been mentioned in the House. One of the problems occasioned by the very high penalties in New York now is the use of juvenile pushers to escape the high mandatory sentences applicable to adults. Do we want to encourage the same kinds of developments here? Given the consequences of convictions- people will be put away for life- the dangers of bribery and the readiness to murder in order to silence witnesses will increase as they have clearly increased in New York City. 
If we rely overwhelmingly, as this measure tends to do, on increasing the severity of the penalties we will simply exacerbate the problem with which we are trying to deal. We will certainly exacerbate the problems unless we accompany these severe sentences with much more constructive proposals than are envisaged in this Bill both on the supply and demand side. I point out to the Government that those who have studied this problem tend to agree that despite all the difficulties the British system which supplies drugs legally through medical practitioners and hospitals is more effective in combating the problem than is the American system. It is not totally effective. It has lots of problems. But by providing drugs legally through medical practitioners and hospitals two major achievements result. Firstly, the profits of the illegal supplier are cut down because a legal supply is available through the medical profession and hospitals. Immediately, one strikes at the very heart of the racketeers' business, that is at their profits. Secondly, if drugs are supplied through hospitals and medical practitioners, there is a real chance to deal with the demand side. There is a much greater medical opening to the addicts themselves. I sincerely press upon the Government that if it is to have high punishments for traffickers, it must accompany them with constructive proposals on the supply and demand sides. Finally, I turn to the third objective of the Bill. This is perhaps the most original part of the Bill. It provides a scheme of pecuniary penalties to combat the sophisticated methods of disposing of, or laundering, the profits of illegal drug trafficking. The Minister himself pointed out how original this scheme is. He said:  . . . the concept and detail of these measures have not been attempted in this form elsewhere in the world . . . 
That originality from this Government deserves praise. Secondly, because it is original it needs peculiarly attentive scrutiny. It is an entirely new piece of legislation without clear parallels anywhere else in the world. It needs to be looked at very carefully indeed. I think that in many ways this is the most constructive part of the Bill because it strikes most directly at the profits of the drug racketeers. Therefore, because it aims directly at what they do with the profits they make, it is probably the most constructive section of the Bill. However, as I said at the very beginning of my remarks, as it provides a blueprint for tackling white collar crimes in general its legal implications need very careful consideration. 
I conclude by saying that this is a peculiarly important Bill- a very critical Bill which has been brought into this House and which deserves the deepest consideration of its three major provisions. The Government needs to justify, much more than has been done, the use of electronic surveillance in this field. There has to be a balance between the rights of the individual to privacy and the needs of law enforcement. Secondly, we have to think seriously about the fact that the severity of the suggested penalties may simply add to the problems that this society faces in regard to drugs. Thirdly, the very interesting original last section needs, I think, very detailed legal scrutiny. I am afraid that I do not have particular powers in that field. 
-Tonight I want to raise an issue of discrimination in the Royal Australian Air Force which is based solely on grounds of marital status. I believe that this discrimination reflects no credit on the Air Force. Also, from the point of recruiting, this action makes it look a rather old-fashioned kind of organisation. I want to contrast the situation of married living-out members of the Air Force with that of single living-out members. The regulations provide that when a single living-out member is required to serve at the base or in the air he is charged for the rations he consumes and for the quarters he uses in that period. But when a married living-out member is required to do exactly the same duty at the base or in the air he is not charged for the rations that he consumes, nor is he charged for the quarters he uses. In other words, although the people involved perform exactly the same duties, quite different attitudes are adopted. In one case financial demands are made- there is a financial discriminationand the only justification for this seems to be one based on grounds of marital status. 
I wrote to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  about this matter and I received a reply from him. I informed the Minister that I intended to raise this issue this evening. I think that an underling must have written his reply. It is certainly not in the mellifluous prose that one might expect from the Minister for Defence and I do not think it shows his usual logic. But the letter under his signature produces four reasons for this kind of behaviour. First of all, he says: 
A single member who lives-out does so as a matter of personal choice, and only with the approval of his commanding officer. 
I know that commanding officer approval is not required but I always thought that marriage was a matter of personal choice- that is, one makes a decision to get married and live out. A single man as a matter of personal choice may make a decision, for whatever reason, to live outside the base. In both cases a matter of personal choice seems to be involved. The Minister gave a second reason. He said: 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
What are the criteria currently employed in assessing applicants under student entry to Australia. 
It is scarcely worth spending much time replying to the rather vacuous defence by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  in response to the rather formidable indictment presented against him by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  but I want to say just a few words about what he said. First of all we had, as is usual from .this Minister, a few highfalutin abstractions. Then we had a piece of semantic indulgence on the difference between a royal commission and an inquiry, in which the Minister was guilty of what can only be described as a terminological inexactitude. On 2 June 1978 he said: 
I believe that it may be that it is best to call it. to give it the status of a royal commission. 
He now denies having said that and plays around with words as the best defence he can produce. Then he presented a semantic essay on the difference between cancellation and delay pending further consideration. I suggest that that is not much of a defence either. I suggest that this poor program under consideration is very unlikely to see the light of a television screen. We had, then, a few remarks on the communications satellite. They were as little down to earth as the satellite itself. Then there were some promises about children's television after, there is no denying, three years of non-achievement in the field of children's television. Finally, we had the statement of the Minister that he would like to see persons of quality on the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. It is the gravamen of our charge that in fact the Minister is incapable of getting his way in Cabinet. He may well want people of quality, but between the time that he makes these proposals and the time that they emerge from the Cabinet they are much changed, and that is true of many of the recommendations that he has made about personnel for boards and committees in this field. 
The Minister responsible for broadcasting epitomises the mismatch between the actions and words of this Government. Outwardly we have this smooth, bland, vacuous visage; fine words on maintaining the integrity of the Australian Broadcasting Commission; fine words on public accountability; fine words on the need for quality in children's television; fine words on community access through public broadcasting. But as this country is learning to its cost, the reality of liberalism is not its outward face, however smooth, but its dirty underbelly. The broadcasting field simply typifies this. 
Behind the fine works of the Minister we find, first of all, a cowardly surrender to every exercise of private commercial muscle. Indeed, I sometimes think that Packer simply has to whistle and his jackals come to heel. Secondly, we find by this Minister an abject abandonment of the ABC at every troglodytic impulse from the National Country Party. Thirdly, we find the continual provision of junk food for the minds and bodies of our kids through commercial television. I will just quote an article by a writer in the Melbourne  Age,  one who simply tuned in to television and listened to typical programs available at any hour on children 's television. He went through a whole series of programs, but I will take just one quote from the article. This is what he said about children's television: 
A man named Shirley is butchering the language, a kid from 'Eight is Enough' is demanding to see an  R-rated  movie.  Chokitos  make you a better skateboarder, and the girl from the pasteurised Partridge Family has been elected Miss Dill Pickle. 
There has been no improvement in that field despite the demands that have been made. There has been no improvement because the Broadcasting Tribunal has been incapable of making itself effective, as against the commercial television stations. In 1975 the Labor Government left this country with one of the great broadcasting institutions of the world. I refer to the ABC. In the Department of the Media we had created at last- after decades of neglect by Liberal-Country Party governments- an instrument for making a positive impact on standards and values in the broadcasting industry. We had undertaken a whole range of initiatives- the development of frequency modulation radio, which had been put aside for years because of commercial fears; the beginnings of ethnic broadcasting and the provision of much greater community access to the air waves through the development of public broadcasting. All of these promised a revitalisation, a reinvigoration, of broadcasting in this country, but under this regime most of this promise has been shattered. The ABC is no longer one of the great broadcasting institutions of the world. 
I am sure that we would have cheers for that position from the other side. The Broadcasting Tribunal has proved a useless instrument in making the media barons responsible and accountable to the public, and the Sydney hearings descended into chaos and impotence. Further developments in FM radio, public broadcasting and ethnic radio have been timid and cautious, retarded by a bureaucratic fear that they might prove spontaneous and uncontrollable, and by commercial fears that they might prove competitive. That is why we have moved so slowly in these fields. 
Let me briefly, in the time left to me, examine in some detail the practice of liberalism, in contrast to its words. Firstly the Minister, on 21 March 1978, said: 
I think that to have a good Australian society we need to have a good ABC- a good, strong viable ABC which encourages a critical approach ... I have long been a supporter of, and an admirer of. and a defender of, the ABC against people on this or that side of politics, including of course at times people in my own party who believe that the ABC is a force ... an unpleasant force, which is only doing damage. 
What is the reality of that kind of fine verbal commitment? Under this Minister and his predecessor the ABC has been emasculated. In the brief space of 3 years a once great and proud c ganisation has been brought low and  Mr Siu  icy has proved a pretty pathetic defender of it. Honourable members need not take my word as to its deterioration. They may take the words of Professor Harding, an ex-Commissioner of the ABC, who writes: 
It is no longer a great broadcasting organisation. 

 Mr Baillieu: Oh yes! He was pretty good! 
-If that will not do, because  he  has some political taint, and the honourable member for LaTrobe  (Mr Baillieu)  is not prepared to accord objectivity to anyone outside his own narrow field, let me quote from the  Advertiser,  a fine newspaper which has not failed, in any election, to support the Liberals. In January 1979 the  Advertiser  media writer, in an authoritative survey, concluded: 
The ABC is a national broadcasting service in decay: a priceless national asset going down the drain. 
There is no doubt that this deterioration has been planned and orchestrated by the Government to reduce the ABC to a tame-cat organisation in a tame-cat society. The evidence for that proposition is overwhelming. Let me say a little about it. 
The operation to emasculate the ABC has been carried out in three ways. Firstly, by needling it into compliance. That, of course, had begun even before the Whitlam Government fell- with that typical Nixon tirade during the latter part of 1 975. Then the hatchet man. Bland, was placed there for 6 months to try to cow the ABC: and now we have a quieter, more systematic, needling being continued. The second way of getting at the ABC has been by way of the composition of the Commission. That has aided the process of emasculation. Indeed we are told that Malcolm even tried Ibr a full spill so that he could do it quickly, rather than have to wait a few years until the commissioners' terms ran out. Professor Harding said of the Commission today that it sees itself as an arm of Government policy and it is little more than a mirror image of the values oi the Fraser Government. Above all. the weapon of financial cuts has been used to paralyse the ABC, so that it has become preoccupied with sheer survival. 
Next we can turn to the Tribunal. Here we have had fine statements from the Minister about public accountability. But in fact we got in the shambolic Sydney hearings the ending of any hope that that Tribunal could in fact carry out an effective public accounting role. One only needs to read the Press of the Government parties, or of any party, to find it described as a farce, a fraud, a facade, a ritual. For that, this Government is totally to blame because it produced the legislation in relation to the Tribunal. That legislation is inadequate. I suppose that the Government produced it because it thought that the commercial broadcasters might behave like good chaps, instead of the profiteers that they were. 
We would produce effective legislation so that a tribunal could effectively ensure public accountability. The Government was responsible too for the appointment of the Commissioners. It is generally known that those Commissioners are called 'Janet and the 3 stooges' by most of the media people with whom I have talked. That is a comment on the quality of the Commissioners. Finally, the monitoring capacity of the Tribunal is virtually non-existent. It cannot do its job without an effective monitoring capacity. But the Government has not provided legislation enabling it to monitor effectively. Neither has the Government provided the resources to enable it to perform an effective monitoring role. 
There are three things that we can say of the Minister, and I am sorry that he is not here. He is either a hypocrite, a masochist or spineless. I do not believe that he is a hypocrite. I think that the man believes what he says. I do not know whether he is a masochist. I do not know whether he goes into Cabinet and says: 'Look, here is another of these idealistic propositions of mine. Please stomp on it, jump on it. It gives me great pleasure for that to happen to it'. Or is he simply spineless, such that when he goes into Cabinet the old spine bends as the Country Party gets to work on him? If he is either spineless or masochistic he had better not go on being a Minister in this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 8 March 1 979: 
1 ) What is the (a) number, (b) location and (c) status of Australian missions overseas. 
2 ) With respect to each mission (a)whatisthenum ber of (i) Australianbased and (ii) locallyengaged staff and (b) what was the operating cost for 1 977-78. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether on 12 September 1978 he told the Parliament: 
No one can doubt that this Government has a powerful commitment to lower tax. 
Does that commitment still stand? 
-Can the Prime Minister confirm that continuation of the tax surcharge and the failure to implement full tax indexation will cost the average taxpayer $6.50 a week from 1 July? Can he also confirm that changes to the health scheme also announced in the miniBudget will cost the average family an extra $4 a week? 
-There are two points that I would like to take out of the rhetoric- that is practically all it was- of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  The first relates to the continuing argument that all the economic problems of this Government in 1979 are somehow due to events from 1972 to 1975. In this case that argument is peculiarly irrelevant. Three dramatic changes to the health provision have been announced in this House in the past 12 months. Was there somehow a Labor government or Labor intrusion between May 1978 and August 1978? Has there been a Labor intrusion between August 1978 and May 1979? The last three changes, each of them contradictory, have been very much the result of the failure of this Government's economic planning. Perhaps all of us had better start arguing in those terms. The changes are the result of the economic mismangement of the last 12 months. 
That brings me to the second piece of rhetoric from the Minister, that is, the silence of the Australian Labor Party on the alternative. Unlike this Government, we believe that we should be responsible to the people in these matters. We recognise the enormous costs and problems produced by these innumerable changes and threats of change. It would be wrong of us to lay down a set policy at this stage when we do not know what the Government's policy will be next May or next August. We get a new health policy every six months. Until we can find out what the Government is threatening to do to the Australian people it is a little difficult for us to determine a policy. 
Let me begin the substance of my speech with a joke. Admittedly it is a sick joke. On 27 November 1975 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said: 
We will maintain Medibank . . . 
Certain forms of this House prevent me from fully characterising that statement as it deserves. Medibank was a national health scheme conceived as universal, equitable, fair and public. It has been this Government's objective, culminating in the mini Budget of last Thursday night, to reduce its universality, to make it less equitable and fair and to turn its administration back to a multiplicity of competing and expensive private agencies. Each of these statements can be proved by the words of the Minister himself. I refer firstly to universality. Last year, when we had a quite different medical plan before us, the Minister constantly insisted that a key element of the universality of his national health provision was the Commonwealth medical benefit of 40 per cent. We have seen the erosion of that medical benefit under this Government from 85 per cent to 75 per cent and then, last year, to 40 per cent. At that time the Minister stressed that the key feature of universality was the Commonwealth subsidy of 40 per cent. I remind him that on 28 September, only seven months ago, he said that all Australians remained covered for the Commonwealth medical benefit of 40%. 
What made the scheme universal in the Minister's words was, above all, the 40 per cent subsidy. Now even that has been abolished. True- we will give him this- a fragment of universality remains in the maximum fee of $20 and in the provisions for disadvantaged persons, to which I will come in a moment. But the medical costs of the great bulk of Australians will no longer be covered unless they take out private insurance. The scheme is no longer universal. 
The health scheme is increasingly inequitable. The healthy are encouraged to contract out; the wealthy can take care of themselves. That is the effect of last year's and this year's procedures. The problem with health insurance in this country as a result of the Government's actions is that increasingly the insurance burden is falling on the sick, the handicapped and people with large families. In 1976- it is true that that was three years ago and it is a little tough for this Government to maintain anything over three years- the Minister said: 
The only fair and equitable method is that the user pays in accordance with his ability to pay. 
That is no longer true. There is no progressive element in the system of insurance charges. There has been a shifting of the burden to the sick, the handicapped and people with large families because of the pattern of options being adopted by people in relation to forms of insurance. The impact of the most recent changes is that the people most severely hit will be the non-hospitalised, chronically ill. Those who have many regular visits to their doctors, they are the ones who will be most seriously disadvantaged. 
The Minister said that bulk billing for the disadvantaged would provide or maintain universality. In October of last year we on this side of the House expressed concern about the operation of the socially disadvantaged procedures. 
At that stage, the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  was prepared to support us. He too was worried about aspects of the definition of 'socially disadvantaged' and the problem of people going to their doctors, demeaning in itself, to have to claim to be socially disadvantaged. We said then that doctors were inadequate as categorisers of the socially disadvantaged. The figures that are now available seem to suggest that the fear of the honourable member for Petrie has been realised. Only 3 per cent of services were provided to the socially disadvantaged. That suggests that the unemployed are peculiarly healthy. The provisions of universality in relation to the socially disadvantaged are not working very well. 
We on this side of the House condemn the constant changes in national health provision. This is the fifth major change under this Government. There is no doubt that it produces chaos, confusion and uncertainty. Last year the honourable member for Petrie, speaking in relation to the scheme which the Government is now to abolish, said: 
This is clearly the finest scheme we have seen in this country. 
After nine months the finest scheme we have seen in this country is to be abolished. I do not doubt that the honourable member for Petrie will tell us why this new plan is an even better scheme, a finer scheme. That is the way words are used by Government members. A scheme described by a Government supporter as the finest scheme we have seen in this country did not survive even for a year. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd ) said last September: 
I hope that this is the last fundamental change to our national health scheme for many years. 
When we dared to suggest that, knowing this Government, there would be a change in six months, nine months or a year he waxed indignant and told us clearly that this would be the last fundamental change. It has not even survived for 12 months. 
I cannot keep up with the duration of the various schemes. The reasons for the change are not concerned with health provision for the people of this country. None of the changes in the last three years has been motivated by the effort to create a fair, equitable and universal health scheme. They have all been imposed on the Minister at the behest of the Prime Minister, simply for short term economic reasons. That is why the health scheme is changed every five months. The Prime Minister's economics are such that they require change every five months or six months. The changes in May and October of last year and the changes this year have not been given to the country because there is a desire to provide a better national health scheme. They have been introduced simply for short term financial reasons. The changes in the August Budget were introduced simply to carry through a sharp trick with the consumer price index. The fundamental change in the scheme last year was another of the slick tricks of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to manage the consumer price index. It was not made because of a worry about the health of ordinary Australians but to adjust the CPI simply for partisan purposes. It would be interesting to know what the Government will do with the CPI this year. The major changes that have now been made- abolishing, in the words of the honourable member for Petrie, 'the finest scheme this country has ever seen'- have been made solely because of the immediate economic difficulties of the country produced by the inadequacy of the Budget last year. It is important, I think, for all Australians to realise that the changes are being made not to provide a better health service, but often for rather slick and snide reasons to shift economic indicators. 
That brings me finally to the Minister himself who has in fact defended his proposals today simply by rather tired and worn rhetoric about the period 1972 to 1975. I have in many ways considerable respect for the Minister but in a democratic country such as ours there surely comes a point when any Minister with selfrespect, with concern for the department which he manages- in this case for the objectives of an adequate national health scheme- must say to his colleagues in the Cabinet 'I can go no farther with emasculating, cutting and jettisoning schemes. ' The Minister is compromising universality, which he claims to believe in. He is compromising equity, which he claims to believe in. He is compromising efficiency, which he claims to believe in. This abdication by the Minister is in fact a major neglect of the interests of this country. 
-First of all, I congratulate the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  for having accepted the basic structure of the amendment which we have provided. It was based on our argument that his original Customs Amendment Bill 1979 gave too much to the necessities of law enforcement and lacked consideration for the rights of individuals. He has moved some way in this amendment to meeting the need to balance those matters in a measure of this nature. However I do think that, in the critical case of the criteria by which judges will issue or provide a warrant, his failure to incorporate the criteria set down in the amendment of my colleague, the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  is to ignore the spirit of the amendment that was moved in the Legislation committee. I can accept what I think are minor points about the jurisdiction of judges and the question of affidavits and oaths. I think that the critical part of my colleague's amendment is the set of criteria provided forjudges in relation to issuing a warrant. 
It seems to me to be critical that this legislature give guidance to the judges in a matter as critical to the issue of privacy as this. Our amendments No. (4) and No. (7) were an effort to lay down in greater detail than provided in the Minister's amendment set of criteria. I do not believe that judges would be upset by this. In fact, in the kind of difficult operation we are giving them to do, I think that they would appreciate the kind of specific criteria which we have set down in contrast with the very vague provisions that lie in the amendment provided by the Minister. Therefore, I urge very strongly that we consider particularly amendments No. (4) and No. (7) which set down these criteria for that which we all recognise is a major invasion of privacy but which is justified in certain circumstances of law enforcement. We want to ensure that the criteria set down for that invasion of privacy are as strong as possible and of course, that they are clear to the judges themselves. 
-Let us return to the critical issue in debate in relation to the present provision, that is, the proposals made by the Opposition to strengthen the criteria under which warrants will be issued. I simply want to ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  why he is not prepared to add to his measure the two additional substantive proposals that the Opposition has made, which are, in essence, paragraphs (d) and (e) of sub-section  (5B)  and paragraphs (d) and (e) of sub-section  (6B)  of proposed section 2 19B. That is the substantive criteria that we suggest should be added. Let me read them. Paragraph (d) of proposed sub-section  (5B)  and proposed subsection  (6B)  reads:   the judge is satisfied that other methods of investigation have been tried without success, or would be unlikely to be successful, or would be impracticable . . . 
Paragraph (e) of those proposed sub-sections reads:   the judge is satisfied that, given the seriousness of the suspected offence, or suspected likely offence, the issue of a warrant would be in the public interest. 
The Opposition wishes to add those two criteria because, as my colleague the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  has said, we regard the use of these listening devices as extraordinary means or methods of last resort or abnormal in a sense and we want to know why we could not strengthen the criteria whereby a judge would decide whether they should be used. 
-For the sake of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  I would like to put this proposal, which is the only one rejected by the legislation committee that we brought back before the House. It is central to our whole approach to the Bill. I think the most useful thing I can do is put it in the context of what we have tried to do with this Bill. It was our belief that the balance between law enforcement on one side and the right to privacy on the other had not been sufficiently ensured in this Bill. We had two major approaches to that. One was the system of judicial warrants. We are glad that the Minister has accepted in form that first major protection of judicial warrants. As we said this afternoon, we are dissatisfied with some of the detail of that, particularly in relation to the criteria for the issue of warrants and also in relation to some of the documentation relating to warrants. We will continue to attempt to strengthen those provisions in the Senate. 
The second side of our approach to the Bill is that this House, this Parliament, should have some effective supervision of this major advance in the type of legislation passed through this Parliament. The use of these devices is something about which all of us in this House are genuinely concerned. In this amendment we have proposed a role for the Parliament in the supervision of Executive actions or Customs actions in this field. We do not accept the Minister's argument that somehow a discussion or a debate in this House about the use of these devices will somehow give criminals details whereby they can avoid successfully the operations being conducted. Indeed, we have tried to provide a whole series of qualifications. We have taken great care to try to prevent both the dangers suggested by the Minister and the threats to the rights of fair trial, without in any way endangering Customs agents. 
It seems to us terribly important that in legislation of this kind- if, in the late twentieth century this Parliament is to have any useful function at all- one of the functions should be to check on the Executive in regard to these kinds of intrusions and invasions which are likely to become greater because of technological development. We see this as the second part of our proposal. On one side we seek to provide for judicial warrants while on the other we seek to give this Parliament a role in checking on the use of these devices. We have suggested therefore, the presentation of an annual report based on the Comptroller-General's reports, but with a whole series of safeguards. In this regard I refer honourable members to paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of proposed new sub-section (4) which attempt to overcome any of the dangers which we recognise could derive from this kind of supervision. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
Has the proportion of old age pensioners without fringe benefits increased from 17.5 per cent in 1975 to 22.8 per cent in 1 978; if so, what is the reason. 
Has the proportion of invalid pensioners without fringe benefits increased from 8.4 per cent in 1 975 to 9.6 per cent in 1978; if so, what is the reason. 
Has there been any change in (a) the unemployment benefit for 16-17 year olds since 19 May 1975, (b) the supplementary allowance for sickness beneficiaries since 1 November 1974 and (c) the rate of supplementary assistance (i) for old age pensioners since 14 November 1974, (ii) for those on widows' pensions since 5 November 1974 and (iii) for those on supporting parents benefit since 5 November 1974; if not, why not. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House, recognising that: 
1 ) The non-indexation of pensions in May is costing the single pensioner $2.23 per week and a married couple $3.73 per week; and 
The confession of the Government that the rate of inflation in the coming year is likely to be static at best; urges the Government to immediately restore the value of the pension. 
-Did the Prime Minister tell the National Young Liberal conference on 12 January 1979: 'The information available to me is that the figure for the Budget deficit should be significantly under $3,000m?' 
How is it possible for the Prime Minister with all the resources at his command to understate the deficit by half a billion dollars at that point in the financial year? 
-Over three years ago, on April Fools Day 1976-I think the date is symbolic- the Horton report, the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries, was introduced into this Parliament. This major report did two things. Firstly, it identified the very serious defects in the provision of library services in this country. Secondly, it proposed a 10 year co-operative plan between the Commonwealth, the States and local government whereby these defects might be remedied. On the defects themselves, the report concluded: 
Too many areas of Australia are still without public library service, and many public libraries are less than adequate being little more than minimal in terms of stock, staff and therefore performance. 
The report pointed out that some 7 per cent of the population was totally unserved by libraries within the area in which they lived. One hundred and twelve local government areas with a population of 8 1 6,000 had no library services. The report identified those Australians who are particularly disadvantaged in the provision of library services. First of all, it mentioned the situation of those living in Queensland and South Australia compared with that of those living in the other States. I am glad to say that in the past three years both the State Government and local government bodies in South Australia have made major efforts to correct at least the most serious defects. Secondly, the report stated that there was inadequate provision of library services for ethnic communities, for the aged, for the handicapped and for Aborigines. I am sorry that there are very few, if any, National Country Party members present in the chamber because country people as distinct from metropolitan dwellers are disadvantaged most. In relation to Queensland the report stated: 
. where it exists at all, library service for those living in country areas varies from the merely inadequate to the abysmal. 
There is a lack of qualified staff too, particularly in the disadvantaged areas and specialist fields. 
The report, in its 53 recommendations, came forth with what it termed an integrated solution to the problems of public libraries in this country. I will indicate some of the major features of those recommendations. Firstly, the report argued for the development of regional library centres as the best way in which to provide library resources for country people. Secondly, it argued for the development of educational programs, for professional librarians and for paraprofessional staff to fill in the gaps in quality staff. Thirdly, it set down explicit programs to develop library resources for Aborigines, for the blind particularly- neglected groups in the community. It argued for the integration of school and university libraries into the community. Basically the report aimed to ensure growth in the provision of library services and equality of opportunity in the use of those services for all Australians. 
As we all realise, such remedies require money. The Horton Committee recognised that the provision of public library and information services should be the collective responsibility- I emphasise the point that it should be the collective responsibility- of the Commonwealth, State and local levels of government and funded in part by each of these levels of government. The Horton Committee recommended a 10-year funding program of not less than $20m annually and recommended more specifically for 1976-77 an explicit Commonwealth funding program amounting to $19,995,000. It argued generally that with the expendititure over the next decade of an estimated 3c a week at 1975 figures for each Australian it would be possible to revitalise the public libraries of Australia. 
I want to ask: What has been the fate of this pioneering report since it was brought into this Parliament three years ago? I wish to examine the fate of that report because it illustrates three of the more significant features of the present Government. Firstly, it illustrates the utter inability of this Government to respond to any imaginative and innovative social program. Secondly, it reflects the process of non-decision making that is so characteristic of the Fraser Government for all of its claims; and thirdly, it confirms- if there were any doubt- that we are governed by intellectual pygmies. 
Let me prove that by looking in detail at what has been done with this report over the three years. The Horton report was, as I noted, introduced on April Fools Day in 1976. It was introduced by the Minister responsible in this House,  Mr Street,  in a most perfunctory and cursory speech and no opportunity for debate was provided in this House or in the other place. A fortnight later, on 15 April 1976, it was referred to an interdepartmental working group and on 3 June 1976 the report was forwarded to the State Premiers. These were the only occasions in the past three years that the Government acted with any sense of urgency in relation to this report. I want to make another observation on these actions. The interdepartmental working group was composed of this extraordinary melange of organisations, namely, the Department of Adminstrative Services; the Department of Education; the Attorney-General's Department, the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development; the Department of Health; the Department of Industry and Commerce; the Department of Science; the Department of the Treasury; the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation; the Australian Telecommunications Commission; the Public Service Board; and the National Library. It is very difficult to escape the conclusion that this cumbersome interdepartmental working group was designed to delay and procrastinate the implementation of the report. 
Whether or not it was so designed, it certainly had that effect. In November 1976- six months later- the Minister,  Mr Street,  reported that the interdepartmental working group was 'expected to report shortly'. However, in February 1977- three months later-  Senator Withers,  the Minister who was then directly responsible, reported even more joyous news. He stated: 'A draft report is in the course of presentation'. Unfortunately, there was then a deterioration because on 31 May 1977- three months later-  Mr Street  was proclaiming that the interdepartmental committee report was due shortly. The first April Fools anniversary had passed without governmental action. On the same day, 3 1 May 1977,  Senator Withers  was telling impatient senators to wait until the August Budget. 
The next incident in this sorry tale was that ineptitude was added to procrastination. On 16 August 1977  Mr Street  misled this House by telling the Liberal member for Angas: 'The interdepartmental committee has not yet reported'. Unbeknown to  Mr Street,  the committee had reported to  Senator Withers  on 1 1 August, some five days before that date. After a period of 16 months the interdepartmental working group had got around to reporting to the Government. 
The next stage of the saga occurred on 20 September 1977.  Senator Withers  told the Senate: The Government has yet made no decision on the Horton report'. Seventeen months after receiving the report it had made no decision. In 
October 1977- one month later- senators were getting impatient and  Senator Withers  was getting pretty stroppy. In what we now recognise as a typical Liberal response he replied to a question on the Horton report with a meandering account of the Khemlani affair and the Iraqui breakfast as though they had anything to do with the report on public libraries in this country. 
In April 1978, the second anniversary of the Horton report, a new character enters into the story and that is the present Minister for Home Affairs,  Mr Ellicott.  On 4 April 1 978 he made the following statement: 'The Government has not yet made any decisions on the wide range of recommendations of the Horton inquiry'. That is some two years later, the Government still had not made any decisions. Six months later an element of farce enters into the story. The unfortunate  Senator Webster,  on 18 October 1976 when asked, could not remember when the inquiry had reported, could not recall what action had been taken on the 53 recommendations, and did not know whether they had been pigeonholed. Honourable members are able to read that in the Senate  Hansard of 1  8 October 1 975. 
In 1979, three years after the Horton committee reported, and after some months of letter writing, the Minister of Community Welfare in South Australia received the following incredible epistle from the Minister for Home Affairs. The letter is dated 24 April 1979 and states: 
I can assure you that when the Commonwealth 's views are formulated I shall be in touch with you immediately. 
I love the word 'immediately'. Three years have passed and this Government has not yet formulated its views on a major report. 
Honourable members might also note that whilst there has been this delay the situation in the libraries continues to get worse. The metropolitan rural discrepancies increase. The disadvantages to rural areas grow. Indeed, in 1978 there was only one library in rural New South Wales open at weekends, while there is a great lack of qualified staff in many of the rural areas. Due to the shortage of capital funds library buildings are falling further and further. This again particularly relates to rural people because the regional libraries which are essential for their provision are not being provided. These inadequacies are growing and nothing has been done. I finish with a quote from the politician in this country who has turned the credibility gap into the credibility chasm. This was the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  speaking in 1969. He said: 
A good book, more, a good library, has a material value it is true, but it has a greater value in its contribution to the quality of human life. 
I suggest that the Government, presided over by that Prime Minister, do something about the provision of those books and those libraries. 
-This is the fifth major change which has been made to health provision arrangements since 1975. The first change took place in May 1 976 and another change followed some months later in September 1976. In 1978, which was a record year for changes, changes were made in May and October. Now a change has been made in June 1 979. Indeed, three major and somewhat contradictory changes have taken place in the last year. As I reminded the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  the other night, on 12 October 1978 he said: 
This is clearly the finest scheme we have seen in this country. 
He was talking about the scheme that was in operation nine months ago. I intend to ask the honourable member tonight to state, when he has his chance to speak, whether he intends to describe this scheme as a pluperfect scheme. 1 look forward to hearing his comments on it. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  tonight repeated in principle his views on the matter. Last year he stated: 
I hope that this is the last fundamental change to our national health scheme for many years. 
Tonight he admitted that he had been disappointed by this further change. It is true that last year he said that the scheme might need some fine tuning. But I am quite sure, from the views he expressed tonight, that he would not describe the changes that have been made as simply 'fine tuning'. 
The changes themselves have been contradictory and confusing. For instance, bulk billing was abolished in May 1978 and was partially reintroduced in October 1978. It was abolished and reintroduced in principle at least; I know that in practice the situation has been somewhat different. The health levy was maintained in May 1 978 and abolished five months later. A new universal medical benefit, the 40 per cent Commonwealth cover, was introduced in October 1978 and is now abolished in June 1979. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  told us last year that one reason for the 40 per cent Commonwealth cover was that 'the cost of health insurance premiums has become uncomfortably high for many people '. 
The Minister in many of his speeches last year said much about the insurance savings that would result from this measure. The changes envisaged in the Bills before us tonight, plus the anticipated increase in doctors' fees in the next six months, will mean that any insurance gains made in 1978 will be more than wiped away in 1979. In the Minister's own words, slightly amended, 'the cost of health insurance premiums will have become uncomfortably high for most people by December of this year'. The fact is that for all Government members' claims to be sound, solid and reliable managers, on the whole they are a pack of slick charlatans lurching from one crisis to another, and the health measures have tended to be the victims of those crises. They have tended to produce contradictory rhetoric and responses in each situation. Indeed, frankly it has to be said that health provision under this Government has never had a very high priority. It has been simply the victim of the Government's incompetent economic policies. The Melbourne  Age  put this point, I thought quite clearly, the other day in an article which stated: 
Clearly changes to the health insurance system are based on budgetary strategy, with the quality of the system and the availability of medical care firmly in second place. 
Finance is all; universality, equity, even efficiency are relegated before the ever-changing financial needs of the Government. For instance, let us look at bulk billing. The attempt by the Government to abandon bulk billing in May 1978 was simply to meet the Government's deficit problems of that time. The medical levy, as I think is now universally admitted, was jettisoned in late 1978 in order to manipulate the consumer price index figures. The abolishment of the 40 per cent Commonwealth cover in 1 979 is in order to solve the deficit problems of the Government. Nevertheless, despite this inconsistency, I think we can see two elements of consistency that have run through the Government's chaotic administration of the national health scheme. One of those elements was the desire to restore to favour the plethora of competing private insurance organisations which have been the beneficiaries of many of the changes. Secondly, there was the desire to shift the financial burden, no matter to whom- the States, citizens or private organisations; to anyone but the Commonwealth Government- without adequate consideration of universality, equity or even efficiency. 
I think this final emasculation of Medibank, this final honouring of the pledge by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to maintain Medibank, forces us not just to condemn the Government's confusing administration, but also to fight again for the principles which underlay the national health provisions of the Labor Government. The final destruction of Medibank brought about in this Bill has ensured that health will certainly be a major issue in the 1979-80 election campaign. Way back in 1976 the Minister for Health said: 
Somewhere, sometime, someone must pay. The only fair and equitable method is that the user pays in accordance with his ability to pay. 
He said that in 1976. Then the Minister talked about a balance between cost and equity, a balance which I support. On 24 May this year a similar statement was made by the Minister for Health. He stated: 
. that health costs must be met by the community by one means or another, either by the payment of taxes, levies or premiums, through direct payments, or by a combination of these means. The community cannot escape the bill. 
It is important to notice the moral deterioration that has taken place. In the whole of that latter statement the concentration is placed simply on the financial problem, not on the problem which is an essential aspect of this field, of balancing financial costs against considerations about the principles that should underlie national health provisions. They were there in the Minister's statement in 1976 but they disappeared in his statement of this year. No mention was made in that statement of universality and equity. As I shall show, the system emerging from this Bill is no longer universal, is no longer in any comprehensive sense equitable, and in many ways is not even efficient. 
It is true that when the Minister gets rattled on these issues he tends to talk about the costs of the 1973-75 period. Out tumble community costs, gross domestic products and the Labor Government's extravagances. There are vague assertions that somehow these rises are the fault of Medibank. Let us admit that there was undoubtedly an increase in the proportion of the gross domestic product spent on health in those years. Three major reasons lie behind this. Firstly, part of that reflected simply a catching up in the health services in this country after the neglect of the last decade of Liberal Country Party rule. Secondly, the rise in the proportion of the GDP spent on health in Australia was paralleled in nearly every Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development country in the mid-1970s. Inflation, wage increases and increased popular expectations all had the effect of increasing the proportion of the GDP spent on health, whatever the type of health provision. Finally, the major surge came in 1 974-75, that is, before Medibank was operative. Therefore, it is a little difficult to see the Medibank scheme as the critical factor. 
There is a problem here because we all thought the surge took place in 1974-75. Last year the Minister for Health told us that the gross domestic product figures were as follows: For 1974-75, 6.83 per cent; for 1975-76-this is the important figure- 7.38 per cent of GDP; and 1976-77, 7.67 per cent. However, in a table which the Minister provided for the House the other night he dramatically revised the critical figure, that is, the figure for 1975-76. He increased it by $400m, thus raising the percentage of total GDP spent to 7.84 per cent, which produces the extraordinary anomally that in the following year he was able to reduce the proportion of GDP spent on health. If that table is correct and it is not just a manipulation, the Minister clearly does not understand it. I am certain that if he did, he would have spent at least a quarter of an hour discussing his achievements in 1976-77. 1 would ask the Minister to have a look at those figures and see how they relate to the figures he has provided over the past two years, particularly in relation to the critical 1975-76 year. 
Let me just take what is the latest academic assessment of the Medibank contribution by Professor George Palmer, head of the School of Health Administration, University of New South Wales. On the contribution of Medibank I to health costs he made three points. I am prepared to admit both the bad and good features of those points. Firstly he noted that the Medibank hospitals agreement did allow greater expenditure, not so much as a result of increased usage, but greater tolerance of wage and salary demands. We accept that as one feature and one problem which we need to face in relation to Medibank and its effects. I quote his second point: 
The tentative conclusion which may be drawn is that no substantial increase in the usage per head of medical services was caused by the introduction of Medibank. 
Thirdly, he pointed out how the administrative costs of Medibank were a great improvement on the previous private insurance systems. That is a balanced assessment admitting some of the financial problems that arose in relation to Medibank and some of the advantages. I think it fairly effectively discredits much of the propaganda that has been used about Medibank I. 
There were obviously cost containment problems, particularly in relation to hospitals, certainly a great increase in the burden of the Commonwealth Government. The Australian Labor Party, if in power, would certainly face up to the problems of cost containment. We were given no chance. It is important to remember that Medibank was not fully operative until 1 October 1975. Six weeks later, through a perversion of the Constitution, the Labor Government was destroyed. Quite frequently the Prime Minister blathers on about what the tax grab today would be if the Hayden 1975 tax rates still applied. It is simply an absurd argument. The Prime Minister changes his tax processes every few months and apparently Labour is not to be allowed that kind of flexibility. It is equally absurd to suggest that because certain cost problems arose with Medibank I, once it was operative and the Labor Government was out of power, we would not have faced up to such problems had we still been in power. 
Let me say that we would have faced up to them responsibly and not as the Government has done in the last three years, irresponsibly. 
What do we mean by facing up to these problems, responsibility? First of all, we would have collected the data, which this Government, by its own admission, has never done, which would have enabled us to act about the cost containment problem in a sensible and rational way. Secondly, when we did act, we would have tried to act, and will act, comprehensively, in a single and complete measure rather than pursue what has happened in the last three years in a confusing, contradictory series of ad hoc steps. Above all, we would have remained cognisant of the principles which health provision should serve. In trying to deal with the cost containment problem, it is imperative that we remind ourselves that the national health provision should ensure universality, should attempt to achieve equity, and also should be efficient. I want to look briefly at how these measures achieve those three objectives. I refer to universality first of all. The discussion paper prepared for the Government itself entitled 'Paying for Health Care' published last year stated: 
Universal basic cover . . . should be regarded as a permanent feature of health financing in Australia. 
I take 'basic cover' to mean a cover for all base medical costs. 
-That is an issue which we can debate. The honourable member thought that the 40 per cent might have been sufficient. All I am saying - 
-We are saying 40 per cent at this stage. That is the amendment we would make. What I am saying is that universal basic cover is clearly no longer a permanent feature. I think that the Government admitted that in the statements it made. It admitted that universal basic cover was no longer a feature of health financing in Australia. 
I will now try to say it. Last October the Minister for Health constantly insisted that a key element of the universality of his national health scheme was the Commonwealth medical benefit of 40 per cent. These Bills remove that key element in a universal provision. The very first step we would make, as we have suggested in our amendment, is the retention of that 40 per cent provision because it is a universal one. 
I will deal with that in one moment if I get the chance. Eighty-five per cent of medical charges today are rendered for services costing less than $20. Thus, 85 per cent of services will not be covered unless private insurance is taken out. It can scarcely be pretended, if that is the proportion of services not covered, that in some sense the Government provides a universal cover. Last week the Prime Minister talked about a universal health service. As I have suggested previously, there is not much relationship between the words which the Prime Minister uses and their meaning for the rest of us. However, I think that the Minister for Health is more responsible or perhaps more circumspect. He described these provisions, not as universal basic cover but as universal protection against higher cost items of medical service. I am quite prepared to let him have the bits of the scheme that are left. I do not deny that the protection left now is for higher cost items of medical service. Secondly, there remains the universal hospital cover although, for the first time, there are problems for pensioners in public wards in Australia. I do not think we can pretend that that kind of cover is universal. It is certainly not an equitable cover. 
Again, I refer to the discussion paper issued by the Health Insurance Commission entitled 'Paying for Health Care '. It states: 
. the individual's contributions should bear some proportional relationship to his income . . . It seems to be another feature that should not be altered. 
That, too, has gone. The great bulk of contributions after this measure will bear no relation to the income of the contributor. The whole private insurance system which will now dominate the market in no way redistributes health costs in a non-regressive way. The man on an average wage pays the same amount for the same cover as does the Prime Minister. There is no relationship between health insurance costs and income , in the whole private insurance system. With the increases involved in these Bills, plus the foreshadowed increase in doctors' fees by the end of this year, the family rate for hospital and medical cover for a man on the average wage will be $ 10 a week. That is about $500 a year or 8 per cent of his gross wage. Many of the people in the poorer groups who do not or will not measure up to the category of socially disadvantaged will be paying much higher proportions of their income. It may be up to 14 per cent. The figures issued in relation to low income earners taking out full insurance cover suggest that there is very little equity in those provisions. The tragedy of the situation is that 10 years go the Nimmo Commission which began the serious consideration of health provision in this country stated: 
The contributions have increased to such an extent that they are beyond the capacity of some members of the community and involve considerable hardship for others. 
By the end of this year we will be back to the kind of position criticised by the Nimmo Commission 10 years ago. 
The incentives for the healthy, particularly those without dependants and the wealthy with tax rebates simply to drop out narrow the pool of the insured, thereby inevitably pushing up the rates and increasing the costs to the sick and to the average family man who tend to be pushed into private insurance provision. Where is the equity in provisions which encourage this narrowing of the insurance pool? 
Of course, we must also consider the position of the old age pensioners and the socially disadvantaged. The Minister claims that the socially disadvantaged provisions are working well. The fact that only 3 per cent of services involve the socially disadvantaged suggests that he has a very narrow view of that section of the community. I invite him to come out to my electorate and spend a short time talking to people. He will then learn about specialists who believe that the socially disadvantaged should be treated only in hospitals; of doctors who pry out the embarrassing details of poverty from those who seek to be treated as socially disadvantaged; and of the doctor who will recognise no one as socially disadvantaged unless he has some kind of social welfare certificate. These people ignore the whole point of the Henderson inquiry which pointed out that one of the major problems of poverty in this country is the low income family with only a single income and a large number of dependants. Equity in the provisions is neglected and universality is now compromised. 
Finally I turn to efficiency, which, I think, is equally debased. Once more, the plethora of organisations and the fact that the private insurers now have a much bigger and more competitive field, will lead to more complicated options being offered to the public. We will return again to the position of 1969 about which the Nimmo Commission stated: 
The operation of the health insurance is unnecessarily complex and beyond the comprehension of many. 
That is the way we are moving with the health insurance changes that are being made. They are unnecessarily complex and beyond the comprehension of many. Undoubtedly, the opportunities now exist for a much wider, broader and more complex series of offerings to the public leading to greater confusion. I have no doubt that administrative costs are going up. One of those costs is simply the expensive series of advertisements and pamphlets that has to be provided each year, or every six months in the last year, to explain the new changes made in health plans in this country. 
-I compliment the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  on taking seriously the allegations that have been brought about by the administration of the Federal Narcotics Bureau and his own responsibility in this matter. This attitude is quite different from the attitude of some other Ministers in this Government. However, I do not accept his response to my colleague the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr 
Hurford) that the issues with which we are concerned, and which have been raised by the events of last week, are sufficiently covered by paragraph (e) of the terms of reference of the Federal Government National Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs. I think that in paragraph (e) the Royal Commission needs much more specific and directive reference about some of the problems relating to the Federal Narcotics Bureau, in terms of its administration, its responsibility to the Minister, its relationship with the Commonwealth and State Police, and its effective accountability. In what I am about to say I hope to provide some justification for arguing for broadening or making more specific the terms of reference of the Royal Commission. 
As has been noted, last week this House made provision in a Bill for the Narcotics Bureau to have quite unprecedented powers in relation to listening devices. At the same time, there is another Bill in the Senate which gives wiretapping powers to the Narcotics Bureau. The penalties for serious offences of drug racketeering have been raised to life imprisonment. If we are to give those great powers and responsibilities to the Narcotics Bureau, then undoubtedly this Parliament has to assure itself that we have a Bureau of quality, honesty and integrity. After the revelations of the last week, I believe that at this moment the Parliament cannot be confident that we have a Bureau which is honest and of great integrity. 
Let us be honest about this and realise that in this type of criminal field there are great temptations and possibilities for corruption. These possibilities are omnipresent, and that is simply because of the enormous profits involved in drug racketeering. In my speech on the Customs Amendment Bill I said that it is the issue of profit which is at the heart of this problem. In some way we must destroy the profit that is coming in from drugs in order to break the whole racket. In may ways, I believe that some of the Governments policies are misconceived, but it is profit that we must get at. While those great profits remain they will attract organised crime and there will be enormous temptation to corrupt the police and the enforcement authorities, and the money will be available to do so. 
The events of the last few days have brought to public attention long-simmering issues affecting the integrity of the Federal Narcotics Bureau. There are three major questions we need to consider. The first is the question of whether the Federal Narcotics Bureau has been penetrated by criminal elements. There is evidence that this view has been held for some months at least in some Commonwealth and State police circles. Secondly, we have to consider the question of the relationship between the Federal Narcotics Bureau and the State and Commonwealth police forces. Again, that has been a long troubled relationship. At present attention has been focused on that relationship by the nature of the proposed police inquiry. Thirdly, we need to look at the relations between the Federal Narcotics Bureau and the Federal Government which, in recent days, have clearly reached a nadir. 
I will take each of those points. Firstly, I shall consider the penetration of the Bureau. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs has confirmed most of what I am about to say. In June 1978, Douglas and Isabel Wilson apparently made the following allegations to the Queensland police. They alleged, on the basis' of information from a notorious New Zealand criminal, that an officer of the Federal Narcotics Bureau in Sydney, who had access to the Bureau's computer, was supplying information to a major drug smuggling syndicate. It was suggested that the officer was paid something like $25,000 for that information. As the Minister has confirmed, a Narcotics Bureau officer was present throughout the interview and the allegations were kept tightly secret because it was considered that any publicity would sign the Wilsons' death warrant. There was apparently an unsatisfactory inquiry within the Federal Narcotics Bureau which neither proved or disproved the allegations made by the Wilsons. The Minister, in his own words, did not know of these allegations, nor apparently of the Bureau inquiry, until Monday 28 May, a year after the allegations were made and some 10 days after the bodies of Douglas and Isabel Wilson had been found in Rye, Victoria. They had been shot dead. These circumstances are extraordinary, given that the Federal Narcotics Bureau does not have the autonomy of a State police force. It is an executive agency which is much more directly responsible to the Minister who has a responsibility for all levels through the agency. 
Three fundamental questions arise from this first point. First: Was the Minister informed at any time before 28 May 1979 of the allegations made by the Wilsons of the penetration of the Bureau? Secondly: Was the Minister informed at any time before 28 May 1979 of the internal inquiry conducted by the Bureau? Thirdly: Did the Minister only learn of these matters on 28 May 1979 as a result of a leak by the Victorian police to a Melbourne newspaper and not through the Bureau for which he was responsible? 
The second point I shall consider is the issue of the relationship between the Federal Narcotics Bureau and the Commonwealth and State police forces. These relations have been notoriously poor. They have even been disfigured by personality clashes. An officer exchange program between the New South Wales police and the Federal Narcotics Bureau was abandoned. There have been complaints from the Federal Narcotics Bureau that it was not getting enough cooperation from the Victorian police on Interpol requests. There is an absurd duplication resulting from the fact that the drug intelligence unit is in the Commonwealth Police and not in the Narcotics Bureau. That is something that needs investigating. The drug intelligence unit is in the Commonwealth Police which is in conflict with the Narcotics Bureau. One would think that, if there was a rational organisation of this arrangement, that drug intelligence unit would be in the Narcotics Bureau. Perhaps we need to reconsider the whole organisation of those central police forces and authorities. Again, tension has resulted from the fact that in 1970 the New South Wales police alleged that their officers had been shadowed by Federal Narcotics Bureau agents. There had been State and Commonwealth police suspicion that the Federal Narcotics Bureau has been penetrated. 
Of course, this fear of penetration is supported by earlier allegations that in the mid-1970s members of the Narcotics Bureau in Sydney were recycling confiscated drugs. In May 1978 an ex-officer of the Bureau, Ian Ramsay Brown, was convicted in a Victorian court. One of the charges of which he was convicted was the recycling of hashish stolen from the Federal Bureau in Sydney. When that incident was referred to the Minister, he replied that it was 'of an historical nature '. If he means by that that it was in the past and decided in the sense that the man had been convicted, I agree. But it is a factor which is very present today in the whole relationship between the State police and the Narcotics Bureau and their fear of penetration. That case suggested that there had been previous penetration and involvement of the Federal Narcotics Bureau in criminal activities. The  Canberra Times  this morning shows further State police evidence of the suspicion that they have of the way the Narcotics Bureau operates. Given this history of friction, conflict and distrust, is it wise to appoint an inquiry into the Federal Narcotics Bureau staffed by senior officers of the Victorian, New South Wales, Queensland and Commonwealth police forces? I agree with the Minister that it is clearly necessary that we need an independent inquiry into the Federal Narcotics Bureau. But is it a good idea to include officers from the forces which, for the last nine years, have been on and off in conflict with the Federal Narcotics Bureau? 
Finally, I shall consider the issue of the relationship between the Minister and the Narcotics Bureau. When the Commissioner of the Bureau resigned- admittedly it was a Robinsonlike resignation- he made the statement that one of his reasons for resigning was that all the facts were not before the Government. That is an extraordinary position- the Bureau is about to be investigated and there is not sufficient confidence in the chief officer of the Bureau to talk to him and to get the facts about this inquiry. Does the Minister fear that he is the person who is leaking the evidence? I am not suggesting that but an extraordinary element of distrust seems to exist when the head of the Bureau cannot be talked to about these issues. He was not consulted. Did the Minister not trust his own Commissioner? There were also the problems for  Mr Harvey  Bates concerning the constitution of the inquiry. I have suggested that he may be justified in having fears about the composition of the inquiry, given the history of police and Federal Narcotics Bureau relationships over the previous nine years. 
Finally, I wish to state why we want to widen and not just examine the issue of the Wilsons, which is at the immediate heart of the matter. We need to examine the relationship of the Narcotics Bureau and the State and Commonwealth police forces. We need to look at the relationship between the Ministers and the Narcotics Bureau. We need to look at where the Drug Intelligence Unit should be located, where is the most appropriate place to put it. We need to examine certain civil liberties questions in relation to the Bureau, and the whole issue of Bureau accountability. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Before I call the next  speaker,  I point out to the House that there seems to be some confusion as to what to call the occupant of the chair. During the absence of the  Speaker,  the Right Honourable  Sir Billy  Snedden, the  Chairman  of Committees is the Acting  Speaker.  When he is in the chair he is referred to as '  Mr Acting Speaker'.  When a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees is in the chair, he is referred to as  'Mr Deputy Speaker'. 
I really want to ask the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  some questions about the allegation that the protective services component will in fact be a second-class division. It is no good just simply saying that it will not be. 
Well, let us look at the argument.  Sir Robert  Mark suggested that a lot of the protective functions could in fact be carried out by civilian employees on a whole range of second level protective functions. Members of the Commonwealth Police Association are concerned about whether this notion will in fact be adopted by the Government, that is, that the protective services component will carry out tasks which  Sir Robert  Mark thought could be left simply to civilian employees. If that is true, if members are to be tied in to a particular pattern within the force, carrying out these kinds of low level functions, inevitably a distinction in status will develop within the force. Would it not be much better to have a unified force in which, according to age, qualifications and expertise, people perform different functions, rather than building into the force from the beginning these two separate components? 
Frankly, I think the Minister has to answer those kinds of arguments. There is a real suggestion underlying the report on which this Bill is based that these types of tasks are second-rate or second-class functions. I hope that the Minister will be able to convince us, as he has apparently convinced the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem),  that there is no danger of this development taking place. 
Firstly let me comment on the remarks made by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  I do not think, in fact, that the arguments he has just advanced are in conflict with the Opposition's amendment. The danger of a compliant commissioner, which is his real fear, is just as likely if the legislation is left in its present form as if it is amended in the way the Opposition proposes. Indeed, if I might point out to the honourable member for Sturt, the danger of a compliant commissioner is probably greater under the present legislation because there is no form of accountability to Parliament at all. Whereas the Opposition, in its amendment, though it makes the directions more specific, does provide for an accountability to Parliament which is not in the present Bill. I think that we on the Opposition side would agree with the specific protections for individuals that the member for Sturt is suggesting. Indeed, I think they could be built into the Bill without being in conflict with the proposals that we are making. I think our amendment moves somewhat closer to his own motion of protection of the liberties of individuals because we are providing accountability to Parliament for all directions given to the commissioner. 
I wish now to take up the point of the Opposition's amendment. At the moment the Bill states, in the critical clause 13(2), as follows: 
The Minister may, after obtaining and considering the advice of the Commissioner and of the Secretary, give written directions to the Commissioner with respect to the general policy to be pursued in relation to the performance of the functions of the Australian Federal Police. 
I think that phrase and the debate over exactly what is meant by general policy open up an enormous field of conflict between government and police which, I think, we saw in South Australia with such disastrous consequences in the 1970 moratorium. We want to remove that danger of conflict between commissioner and government. Let me say that in four of the six States there is this provision now for the Executive Government to give direction to the Police Commissioner. But of course we do not accept what exists in the States because we say that if this power is given, as we believe it should be given, to Executive Government, then we have to protect the people against any arbitrary misuse of this power by 
Executive Government. So the Opposition does suggest a provision which is found in only one State in Australia at the moment, and that is the State of South Australia, where, in fact, a copy of any direction at all either general or specific, that the Minister gives to the Commissioner of Police, must be laid before each House of Parliament within six sitting days of the date of the direction and must be published in the  Gazette  for the information of the public. It does seem to me that in doing that we clarify the possibilities of conflict over this notion of general policy. We give the authority to the Executive but, at the same time- I agree entirely with the honourable member for Sturt- we have to prevent the misuse of that Executive authority. We do that by these two provisions. 
I would be perfectly happy to go on from there and accept some of the individual protections about particular information on individuals which the honourable member for Sturt suggests. That is, I do not think we are in conflict. Indeed, I would suggest that the Opposition's amendment, which envisages accountability to Parliament and publication in the  Gazette,  is more likely to prevent a compliant commissioner carrying out ministerial advice than, in fact, the Bill does as it presently stands. 
I have just had given to me a suggestion by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  that I read  Mr Cockburn's  book on the Salisbury affair, which I say that I have done. May I return the compliment by suggesting that the Minister read Reflections on the Salisbury Affair: PoliceGovernment Relations in Australia' in the  Australian Quarterly  of March 1979. If there is a spirit of compromise abroad at all, I would have thought that the Government could agree with this proposal, which in fact is to put into form what is true of most of the provisions in this Parliament, that is, using the term 'GovernorGeneral in Council' and thus making it quite clear that the responsibility lies with the Executive Government, as it does in all of the States in Australia. 
-In order to enable the Australian Federal Police Bill to be dealt with this evening I shall be as brief as I can. First of all let me echo the remarks of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  and also the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr 
Jacobi) about the hypocrisy of the present governmental action. I think it should be remembered that a similar amalgamation attempted by the Labor Government was ruthlessly resisted by the then Opposition in what, in many ways, was an example of irresponsible opposition. I hope that we, in criticising this Bill, are acting as a responsible Opposition. The first thing we want to say is that we do not oppose the concept of a federal police force, though we are critical of some of the detailed proposals presented in this Bill. In contrast with what happened in 1974-75, this is an example of a responsible approach to a major issue facing this country. 
The key proposal in this Bill is the amalgamation of the present Commonwealth Police Force and the Australian Capital Territory Police Force into a unified federal police force embracing the present powers and duties of the existing forces, but itself internally divided into two components- firstly, a general police function component; and secondly, a police protective services function component.  Sir Robert  Mark recommended this amalgamation as the best option available in order to achieve three objectives- firstly, to overcome jurisdictional boundaries between police forces; secondly, to provide for more effective and economical coordination of federal police resources; and thirdly, to ensure more effective co-operation with the States in law enforcement matters. 
When that is said- and of course it was said in the second reading speech by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)-  it is important to note that  Sir Robert  thought this particular amalgamation merely the best option available. He displayed no particular enthusiasm for it, and was not overly keen on this amalgamation, but given the situation, this was the best choice available to him. Indeed one can say that he displayed no great enthusiasm for the outmoded federal system under which we in this country live and within which his recommendations for a federal police force had to be framed.  Sir Robert  Mark had this to say: 
At the best, I am being asked to cobble an ill-fitting 19th century boot. 
Let me say that I echo  Sir Robert  Mark on his views of the constitutional framework within which he has to work. It is clearly an inappropriate constitutional framework for this country in the late 20th century. Indeed, I share his ideal about police organisation in this country. He wrote:  lt would in my view be perfectly possible to establish a police system for the whole of Australia, comprising operationally autonomous police forces and a national investigative agency democratically controlled in equal partnership, by central and State governments and the police themselves, not a jot less sensitive to the need to preserve civil liberty or the differing requirements of widely separated States but able to achieve uniformity of standards in manpower, training, leadership, specialist services, operational techniques, interchange and improved accountability, all at present unlikely of attainment. 
That is an ideal which he placed before us. It is an ideal I share. Indeed, the possibilities of national achievement in the field of the police, and in many other fields, are being undermined in the late 20th century by an archaic Federal constitution. 
Let me turn to the range of functions which this police force should perform. One of the problems we have with the Bill is that despite the rather bland assurances of the Minister, and the rather vague provisions of clause 9, the Bill will do little to dampen the rivalry, the jealously, even the feuding, that marks the present relationship between Commonwealth and State police. One has only to read the papers of last week to recognise the types of feuds that have surfaced. Contrary to the Minister's assertion, this Bill will not 'provide a basis for many of the current problems experienced between law enforcement authorities within Australia to be overcome or reduced '. 
Let me suggest some of the specific fields in which this Bill does not contribute towards overcoming the kinds of clashes and conflicts that exist to the detriment of police services in this country. First of all,  Sir Robert  Mark made a number of proposals for secondments between the State police forces and the Federal police forces, but there is no evidence in this Bill as to what action the Government will take regarding these secondment proposals, which were designed to make the relationships between State and Commonwealth police forces more effective and more co-operative. Secondly, the Bill bypasses one of the central difficulties and that is the jurisdiction at airports. Nowhere in the Bill do we find any clarification of one of the central conflict problems that Commonwealth and State police find in Australia- a point noted in  Sir Robert  Mark's own proposals. In fact, he suggested rather dramatic solutions to that problem. In the airport situation in Australia there is quite clearly a conflict over jurisdiction not only between the Commonwealth and State police authorities but also between a large number of other Commonwealth agencies and the Commonwealth police. 
Recently there have been revelations about the conflict between the Commonwealth Police and the Federal Narcotics Bureau.  Sir Robert  Mark again suggested secondment arrangements between the Commonwealth Police Force, as he designed it, and the Federal Narcotics Bureau. Has the Government any view on these types of suggestions for trying to break down what is a rigid division of jurisdiction power which had led to feuding, in this case, not between State and Federal authorities but between two forms of Federal authorities. The other day I raised in debate the fact that the drug intelligence unit is within the Commonwealth Police Force and is rather jealously regarded by that Force. The Narcotics Bureau has its own very strong views about that unit being within the Commonwealth Police Force. In this Bill the opportunity to tackle some of these very difficult problems in the Federal area seems to have been bypassed, though the Minister may be able to assure me that the Bill will lay the foundations for tackling some of these problems. 
We are faced in this country with an enormous problem of divided authority in relation to coastal surveillance- a problem touched upon in numerous reports to this Parliament. The whole problem of coastal surveillance in this country in relation to a wide range of issues is divided between a large number of Federal and State authorities. This kind of Bill offers an opportunity at least to look seriously at these types of problems, but the opportunity has not been taken. We are all concerned with the problem of white collar crime in this country- a responsibility which because of the type of constitutional authority given to the Federal Government lies very much within the Federal sphere. This Bill provides an opportunity for Commonwealth police authorities to take up that type of function but again the matter is being bypassed. An effort is being made to unify the forces, and yet we seem to have missed many of the opportunities to tackle some of the conflicts between State and Federal police, and also between various agencies within the federal sphere. 
I turn to my second point of criticism, the internal division of the new force. Having provided a unified force, the Government proceeds immediately to divide it into two separate and distinct segments. Component No. 1 is the general police function component. Component No. 2 is the police protective service function. These functions are not defined in the Bill and the Minister's single reference to them, from which I will quote, can hardly be said to be a statement which clarifies anything very much. The Minister stated:   . . the Government was cognisant of the special requirements of the Commonwealth in the fields of protective security and the need to retain a relationship of this form of law enforcement with the other general policing functions within the Commonwealth area. 
I am quite prepared to hand that statement over to experts in linguistic analysis to tell me what it means. But the Bill lacks any clear definition of these two components. This is not very helpful. One might argue very strongly against the notion of unifying the force and then dividing its members- I admit there are some transfer possibilities between the two components- and then bifurcating the force in this way. I think there are very powerful arguments for the establishment of a Commonwealth police force which is organised in a multifunctional way- a force with a range of functions. I do not find much valid argument for a simple bifurcation in the way that is suggested in this Bill. Indeed, I think it is true to say that this proposal will create, in status and in function, a first class component and a second class component in the Commonwealth police force. I know that police officers themselves are very fearful of this classification or division occurring between a first class and a second class component. Indeed, if one reads the Mark report, it is implicit in that report that this protective component is very much a second class component. Members of the Opposition would argue very strongly that we should abandon this bifurcation and this stark segmentation into two components within this unified force. 
The third issue I take up concerns the relations between the Government and the Police Commissioner as proposed in this Bill. I ask for the permission of the House to include in  Hansards  brief comparative table which will illustrate the points that I want to make. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197906062_71_0.jpg"></graphic>

Plehwe, Rudolf and  Roger Wettenhall. Reflections on the Salisbury affair police- government relations in Australia. Australian Quarterly, v. 5 1 No. I, March 1979: 77. 
I do not think there is any need to emphasise in this House that the relationships between governments and police commissioners have been a rather vexed subject in Australian politics in recent years, quite independent of the party in government. There was the enforced resignation of the Police Commissoner in Queensland in the early 1970s. There was the dismissal of the Police Commissioner in South Australia at the beginning of 1 978. Yesterday there was the resignation of the Police Commissioner in New South Wales. This is a vexed issue. It is an important issue. We think that amendments should be included in the Bill in relation to this issue and in relation to three aspects of this issue. The first relates to appointment, the second to removal and the third to the power to give political directions. 
Firstly, in relation to appointment and removal, the Bill refers simply to appointment by the Governor-General and removal by the Governor-General. It is understandable that my party might be somewhat oversensitive to the notion of the Governor-General having these powers. But I point out that in every State in 
Australia the appointment of a police commissioner is entrusted to the GovernorinCouncil. We are simply asking for a provision which may anyhow be the Government's intention. We desire a provision referring to the Governor-General-in-Council, thus making quite clear that the political executive has responsibility for appointment and renewal. In at least five of the six States, the right of removal of the police commissioner is given to the Governor-in-Council. We ask that those provisions be replicated in the present Bill. We should not leave this right to the GovernorGeneral. In South Australia an ex-governor had rather peculiar views of his authority in this field. We want to make it quite clear that the appointment and removal of a police commissioner is an Executive responsibility for which, of course, a government is accountable to the Parliament. 
Secondly, I want to take up the issue of the Government's power to give political directions. In the present Bill the power of the Minister to give directions is considerably limited. It is limited simply to general directions. The Opposition wants to carry this point further. We want to make it quite clear that the authority to issue directions lies with the Minister. Let me say that this is true of nearly every State. In New South Wales, Queensland and Tasmania, the Minister has the power to direct the police specifically, without limitation. It is true that no such power exists in Western Australia. 
However, we do not want to suggest that a Minister or a Ministry should have this power without limitation. I echo in many ways the point made by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  We would rather copy the South Australian legislation in this field to ensure a balance. We do not want to see unnecessary restraint on the Minister. We want him to be able to direct the police but we also want to make quite sure that the Executive is clearly accountable to the Parliament for any specific direction that it gives. 
Therefore, we want to see that the Minister operates within provisions for accountability. I think we have suggested that within 6 days he should report any direction to the Parliament and publish it in the  Gazette  so that it is open immediately to question and debate by this Parliament. We are trying here to balance the power of the Executive to give instructions, but, at the same time, to be accountable to this Parliament by immediately laying on the table of the House instructions that were given and putting them into the Commonwealth  Gazette.  Those issues, I think, need looking at in this Bill. In doing this we would be copying the South Australian legislation in this field which, in my view, flowing from the 1970 royal commission, is the most effective legislation in this country. 
Briefly, I have two further issues which I want to raise. Firstly, I think more attention has to be given to the rights of the policemen themselves. We are worried about the rights of appeal. We believe they should be given adequate rights of appeal. We believe they should be given adequate rights of appeal in relation to transfers, promotions, disciplines and demotions. We also think, rightly, that the policemen should have a right of appeal against the retrenchment provisions which are provided in this Bill. There are certain industrial rights, in a sense, which the Bill neglects. 
Most importantly, we want to follow the suggestions that  Sir Robert  Mark made about the accountability of the police force. We argue, in a whole series of amendments, that this is the chance to set up a model for Australia about police accountability. I do not think it is good enough for the Minister to say: 'Well, we are going to look at this problem. We hope to introduce a Bill in some months to come'. We think the opportunity should be taken now. The Government is recasting the Commonwealth police. We suggest that, in the Bill which establishes a new police force for this country, the Government should also include within it a model of accountability to the public which will be something for the rest of Australia to imitate. I conclude by quoting from the report by  Sir Robert  Mark on this subject. It stated: 
A police force discharging the duties assigned to the AFP- indeed, any police force in a genuinely democratic society- will not enjoy public confidence and trust unless it is accountable, and moreover, is seen to wish to be accountable. Accountability to the criminal law, the civil law and its own police authority, even though that be the government itself, is not enough. Nor should the object be to satisfy complaints, some of whom will never in any circumstances be satisfied. The object should be to satisfy the public that every complaint is investigated thoroughly and impartially, that if there is evidence of crime the decision whether or not to prosecute is taken by a member of the Attorney-General's Department and that in the event of acquittal, a decision not to prosecute and all complaints not amounting to crime, the possibility of discipline proceedings should undergo the same meticulous examination. 
We suggest that the Government should incorporate in this Bill the model recommended to it by the Law Reform Commission. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
I ) With regard to the forthcoming licence renewal hearings for the 3 Adelaide commercial television stations, will any pan of the hearings commencing on 16 October 1978 be held in camera; if so, why. 
What is the nature of material the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal might consider deserving of a confidential hearing and what guidelines will be used to make these determinations. 
If the Tribunal decides on the petition of a licensee to hear certain evidence in camera, will the Tribunal allow a member of the public to appear at those times, as an observer, and to comment on any evidence presented. 
What undertakings can the Tribunal give that a licence will not be renewed after a 'public hearing' at which a substantial part of the evidence may have been heard in secret. 
Will the Tribunal allow members of the public who have not indicated their intention to give evidence prior to the date of the hearing to appear. 
Will members of the public be entitled to call other witnesses to give supporting evidence or opinions relevant to their own submission without prior notification. 
Will the Tribunal allow members of the public to ask questions supplementary to those asked by Tribunal members. 
Will the Tribunal allow direct questioning of the licensees and nominated key employees of the licensee company; if not, how will members of the public be allowed to elicit information from the applicants. 
Will the Tribunal allow members of the public to tender as evidence videotape clips of certain programs relevant to their submission. 
10) will the Tribunal require the licensees to make available videotapes of certain programs as evidence at the hearings, provided reasonable notice is given. 
Will the Tribunal provide the necessary videotape replay equipment. 
Will witnesses be allowed to tender evidence which relates generally to all of the licensees, or to the industry in general, or will witnesses be required to restrict their submissions to the performance and suitability of certain licensees. 
What restrictions will the Tribunal place on evidence tendered by members of the public in general and what restrictions will the Tribunal impose on evidence which may have been covered at previous Tribunal or Broadcasting Control Board hearings or inquiries. 
What arrangements has the Tribunal made to give intending witnesses, including a number of Adelaide citizens who desire to give evidence at the hearings, some idea of the day and/or hour on which they are likely to be called to give their evidence. 
Is it a fact that the total number of Tribunal advertisements published in the Adelaide press announcing the forthcoming hearings was 3 insertions of an advertisement measuring 4 inches by 6 inches on page 3 1 of one newspaper, page 2 1 of another, and page 4 of another paper that does not have a wide circulation in South Australia. 
What is the total sum spent by the Tribunal on advertisements relative to the television licence renewal hearings. 
What other steps has the Tribunal taken to publicise the fact that the hearings will take place from 16 October 1978. 
Will he, as a matter of urgency, provide the information requested for the benefit of members of the Adelaide viewing public and the licensees prior to the hearing. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 February 1979: 
1 ) Does he share the concern expressed by Australia Post for the takeover of its agency business by Telecom. 
Will the steady takeover of those functions affect employment opportunities in and the profitability of Australia Post. 
Is it considered that the agency relationship between Telecom and Australia Post is satisfactory. 
Will this relationship eventually lead to increased charges for services such as telegrams. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 3 May 1979: 
1 ) What is the present composition of the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence. 
2 ) What criteria are used by the Committee for determining what should be the appropriate trafficable quantity for each narcotic drug. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
Has the Australian Atomic Energy Commission or any other Federal agency established a transuranium register of persons who have come into contact with uranium or its radio-active products so that the long term effects on health can be monitored: if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) What charges relating to drugs have been laid against officers of the Federal Narcotics Bureau, or against exofficers of the Bureau where the charges related to the period of their service with the Bureau, in each year since 1970. 
What was the specific nature of these charges. 
What were the levels of the officers involved and in what sections of the Bureau were they employed. 
) What were the outcomes of these charges. 
-The speech of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  fell into the usual pattern of his speeches on matters of public importance. It was in two parts. Firstly, we had his stale rhetoric on the actions of the Whitlam Government and, secondly, we had his quite incredible display of complacency about the mess over which he now presides. I will discuss briefly both of these matters. Firstly, in reference to the Whitlam Government's period of office, it is quite clear from the results of every gallup poll that what the Australian people are now interested in is the health scheme for which the Minister is responsible. After four years of ad hockery- of jumping, twisting, turning and changing the policies- he is completely responsible for the health policies under which we now live. 
The other feature of his speech, which is a feature of all his speeches on matters of public importance, was the kind of complacency he displayed about the whole situation, about what his Government is doing. In this regard I refer him to a speech of the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  who in my view is the only man on the Government side who talks about health insurance reasonably and with some sense of humanity. On 4 June 1979 he commented on the scheme about which the Minister is so complacent. He talked about the withdrawal of the 40 per cent government subsidy, which the Minister has defended, as being an abortion. He regretted the changes that had taken place; he worried about the 20 per cent maximum payment and the way in which it would operate. More importantly- I will be very interested to hear his comments today- he said even at that stage: 
This raises the parallel problem that chronically ill people are presently placed under financial stress by repeated medical benefit prescriptions at $2.50 a time. 
This amount has been raised. There is at least one honourable member on the Government side who is seriously concerned and who is not complacent about what is being done to the health schemes of this country for which the Minister is responsible. Within a period of 18 months at the most the Minister will be called to reckoning in relation to those schemes. It will be of no use his uttering the stale rhetoric about what happened in 1972-75. 
I think that it is important to see, as my colleague the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  did, this health insurance scheme as part of a strategy now being pursued by this Government to add to the financial burdens of the ordinary people while still conveying the illusion of its being a low tax government. It has embarked upon increasing the burden of the ordinary citizen in a number of ways. But there are three characteristics that run through this evasive strategy. Firstly, the Government uses a fine principle with which we all agree- but it uses it in a shoddy way- to defend what it is doing. But the real reason for its actions simply is the Budget deficit. Secondly, it has little concern for the equity of its proposals. Thirdly, and quite surprisingly, it rather ignores the inflationary potential of its proposals. We can relate this approach both to the matter before the House now and to the petrol levy. 
For instance, in regard to the petrol levy, quite clearly the principle being used is one with which we all agree, namely, that we must conserve energy resources. However, we all know that the energy situation of Australia would allow us to do that in a more gradual way. That fine principle is being used simply to solve the deficit problems of the Government. The petrol levy is designed to save the deficit, not Australian energy supplies. Equally, the excuse offered time and time again by the Minister for Health for health insurance changes is the spiralling health costs in this country. We all agree that those costs have to be faced. But the Minister knows and his party knows that that is not the reason for the introduction of these changes. They were introduced simply to solve the immediate deficit problems of the Government. 
In the case of both the petrol levy and the health insurance changes there is no real concern for the equity problems that arise. A lot of work has yet to be done regarding the petrol levy but I have no doubt that it will prove to be a highly regressive tax in the way in which the burden is felt in this community. Thirdly, the inflationary potential of both the petrol levy and these health insurance changes seems to have been neglected. Surely these problems could have been faced without adding to the kind of inflationary impact that they will have on society. Those measures are part of a strategy. We have to see them in terms of a strategy in which the Government maintains the illusion of being a low tax government by these kinds of evasive devices. 
If we look at the costs that will be imposed on the ordinary person as a result of these health insurance changes and if we look at the situation in all the States- I know that the increases are different in Queensland and that they are very different in my own State, so we have to try to average them out- we find that as a conservative estimate people will be paying an extra $100 a year for a basic cover. For some forms of full cover people will be paying an extra $200 a year. But, as a conservative estimate right across the board, people will be paying an extra $100 a year from 1 September 1979 for basic hospital and medical cover. Thus the tax relief amounting to $4 a week which will follow the promised abolition of the tax surcharge from 1 December 1 979 will be almost completely eaten up over the course of the year by the increased premiums paid by those who cover themselves with health insurance. 
The general expectation in the community and certainly amongst the health funds is that there will be some increase in the number of those who simply abandon insurance. Before these changes were announced we knew that approximately 25 per cent of the population was not insured. Indeed,  Mr Mansfield  of the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia fears that there will be a massive drop-out by contributors because voluntary health insurance is pricing itself out of the community's reach. Who will contract out? If we are to adopt a responsible system we have to look at these things. Firstly, there are people who will not be able to afford the $8, $9 or $10 a week basic cover. People will drop out simply because the burden has become too great. In many instances people will do this unwisely and problems will be created for them, but they will drop out of health insurance because of the weekly cost burden. Secondly, many young and healthy people will tend to drop out of the health funds, because if people are reasonably young and healthy they will be prepared to take the risk of not paying health insurance. Thirdly, some wealthy people in our community will drop out of the health funds because they have the resources to meet major medical or hospital costs. In addition they can claim these costs as a tax deduction. These are the types of people who will drop out of health insurance: Those who cannot afford it, the young and the healthy, and the wealthy people in the community who have the resources to meet unexpected medical costs. In other words, the whole universal system of health insurance cover is already compromised and is likely to be increasingly compromised. 
One of the real worries in the community- I think this is why in the latest gallup polls health is beginning to turn up again as a major matter of social concern in this community- is that we are returning to the pre-Medibank system. We now have approximately 80 competing private insurance funds, with all their overheads, administrative costs and advertising costs. 
-But you are giving them a much bigger share of the market. You have brought the situation back to that of the preMedibank period. The whole of the Government's policy has been to bring the private health agencies back into the centre of health insurance in this country. We are running into exactly the same problems as those we encountered with them prior to 1972. Increasingly people are being faced with a complex and puzzling set of options. The Sax report pointed out that one of the principles of any medical insurance system should be at least to provide relatively simple options so that people can make rational choices. I have said already that a significant proportion of the population is not covered by health insurance. One of the reasons why we had to alter the health system in the early 1970s is that a significant part of the population was in no way covered. Finally, the insurance burden is inequitable in its incidence and increasingly burdensome on the ordinary members of the community. 
The Minister said- I agree with him- that the community pays the bill in one way or another. It has become a platitude. It is a very favourite one of his. But we can agree with it. In one way or another, through tax, levy, insurance or some other system, the community will pay the bill. But what we say- and this is the basis of the policies we will be compelled to introduce either at the end of next year or even at the end of this year if things go well- is that in determining this bill we will be guided by four principles which the Government has neglected. Firstly, the system must be efficient. The mounting evidence of the kind of mess we are now in shows that it is not an efficient system. Secondly, the burden has to be spread equitably; that is, we have to have a system which is equitable. That means bringing most people into the system so that the burden of health care costs in this community rests not on a narrowing group of the sick but right across the community. Thirdly, it has to be simple. We have to have a relatively simple system. Fourthly, above all, it has to be a universal system. I am suggesting that they are the principles upon which the Government needs to judge its policy. The Government will have to change its policy again. Let us be quite frank. If the Government survives for more than six months it will have to change its present health policy. I suggest that next time the Minister, rather than allowing the 
Budget deficit to dominate his thinking and being told what to do by the Treasury officials, should work towards a scheme which is firstly efficient, secondly equitable, thirdly simple and fourthly universal. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the report  (National Times,  17 February 1979) that the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has assured Sydney commercial television stations that their licences would not be at risk at this month 's public licence renewal hearings. 
If so, does this statement suggest certain impropriety. 
Has he investigated the statement; if so, with what results. 
I refer the Prime Minister not to a newspaper interview but to his clear and unequivocal pledge to the Australian people in his 1975 policy speech, when he said: 
Governments . . . will no longer be able to rely on the secret tax increase of inflation. 
I ask: Is not the 15 per cent increase in the income tax bill of the average taxpayer for 1 979-80 a classic example of government relying on 'the secret tax increase of inflation "! 
I am told that the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  was a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. I can only presume that it was as a witness to that Committee that he appeared. I think it is typical of the attitude of this Government to this Parliament that the honourable member for Darling Downs should refer to the Press statement of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  rather than to that twoparagraph insult which the Minister gave us as his only defence in his second reading speech. I think it is typical that we are referred by honourable members to outside statements by the Minister rather than to the defence given in this House which constituted two paragraphs. 
This Bill, like that speech, is, I think, reflective of what has become the hallmark of this Government 's provision for health services in this country, that is, the whole matter is once again marked by that muddle and incompetence which we are beginning constantly to associate with the Minister. Let me prove that statement. Let me suggest four things about this measure which support that argument quite clearly. 
This is the second amendment to the national health legislation in three months. It is going to be rushed through this House today by the use of the gag in order that Australians will pay increased pharmaceutical bills from Saturday. Once again an amendment to the National Health Act is done in a rush. I ask the Minister: Are the Australian people to be constantly subjected to a dribble of health increases? Why was this charge not included in the general changes which were made three months ago? Is it a practice of this Government simply to soften up the people to various increases in the cost of health charges or did the Government not know in June that there was to be this extra increase? Is it simply a last minute deficit plugger? That whole attitude to finance is now typical of this Government. 
No pensioner will gain anything from the twice-yearly indexation until May 1980, that is, until the election year. The index change will not come through in terms of real benefit until May 1980. No taxpayer of course will gain any benefit from the removal of the surcharge until December 1979, but the increase in patient contributions for pharmaceutical benefits and the health costs are of course immediate costs. The new health insurance rates will average between $2 or $3 extra a week apply from 1 September. The increase in the patient contribution which we are now debating under the restrictions that have been placed upon us will be paid from this Saturday, I September. We have a Budget which provides benefits towards election time but the costs must be paid immediately and in full as from now. That is not the end of the ministerial incompetence involved in this Bill. The Budget proposes, in addition, to limit the range of drugs available under the National Health Act. Surely that should be an inextricable part of a total package. On one side there are patient contributions and on the other side there is a range of drugs which the Government is determined to limit. It would be much better to look at the whole proposal rather than to examine the proposal in bits. The House should examine what drugs are now going to be cut off and what savings there will be- we are told $20m- and compare that with the costs which patients have to pay. Rather than dealing with it as a package, the Government is again dealing with it in an ad hoc manner. 
Even that is not the end of the sorry tale because one year ago the Minister, in association with his colleague the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)-  those two make a fine pair- set up the Ralph committee a full scale inquiry into the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry and the pricing policies and practices of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. I shall read the terms of reference of that Committee to the House because it seems to me that they are directly relevant to the problems we are now talking about. The reference states:  the role of the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry, including its role as suppliers of products to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS), and the factors affecting its structure and viability; the relationship between industry viability and PBS pricing policies and practices; whether there is a need for any changes in related Government policies in order to sustain an efficient and viable pharmaceutical manufacturing industry in Australia while protecting community interests in obtaining an economic supply and distribution of pharmaceutical products; and whether there is a need for an independent prices determination system, and, if so, the form that such a system should take (including a system of arbitration to deal with any disagreements between the Government and the pharmaceutical industry on drug prices). 
Thus we have a committee which is dealing with the problem on which we are now making another of these ad hoc decisions. The Ralph committee report is already overdue. The allegation around this House and elsewhere is that it will be reporting possibly within the next week. At least it will be reporting in the very near future. If we had a Minister who was competent, if we had a Minister who was responsible, if we had a Minister with a sense of vision and imagination about the health provisions in this country, he would have waited for that report- as I will show in a moment, there is no urgency to make these price increases- so that the payment contribution for pharmaceutical benefits could have been measured against the total pattern of need in this field. Unfortunately, we do not have that Minister and we do not have that attitude towards health care. 
I think the second reading speech is fairly typical of my claim. Its two paragraphs say nothing about the equity of the proposal before us, nothing about the burden to the ill who require numerous prescriptions, nothing at all about the problems of disadvantaged patients, and nothing at all about the fact that this measure will again strike particularly at the single income family with a large number of dependent children. One may say that the two-paragraph speech said nothing, but that claim I think is a bit unfair to the Minister. There was one argument in the two paragraphs: The Minister said: 
This small increase is expected to result in a saving of $5. 1 m to the Government in the financial year 1 979-80. 
Every health measure introduced into this House by the Government has not been concerned with national health provisions in this country but has been concerned with the Government's deficit. We could sum up the Minister's policy over four years by saying that the national health provision of this country has been prostituted on the alter of the deficit. 
Let me deal with the financial provisions. There is no justification in terms of cost for this rise now. Already, in two of the last three years, there has been a rise in the patient contribution for pharmaceutical benefits. Between 1975 and 1978, the average cost of a general pharmaceutical benefit item rose from $3.29 to $4.20, approximately a thirty per cent increase. But the patient contribution in that three year period- we do not consider the effect of the increase which will result from this legislationrose from $1.50 to $2.50, an increase of approximately 60 per cent, double the rate of increase in the general price for the pharmaceutical benefit item. So it is not justified on cost increase grounds. There is no urgency for this type of decision prior to the Ralph committee report coming in. 
Secondly, it has been argued that somehow this is a kind of balancing act because of the generosity of the Government towards pensioners and supporting parents in terms of the pensioner health benefit card extension. I congratulate the Government on that change. As he well knows, it is a change for which we have fought over the last three years. We welcome it. According to the Budget Papers that extension will cost $ 15.5m. On the other hand, over the full year the increase in patient contribution for pharmaceutical benefits will save $7m and in addition the removal of a number of drugs from the pharmaceutical list will save $20m. That gives a total of $27m in savings. In a sense, that is a kind of Fraser economy. The Government gives $ 15.5m; the government takes away $27m. Of course, honourable members may say that that is a correct distribution, that we have to think about helping those who most need these kinds of resources, particularly the pensioners and supporting parents. They say that we should give that kind of support. However, I point out that even last year one of the Government's own supporters, the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  was worried about the types of increases in patient contributions taking place then. He did not make a very strong statement but at least he went so far as to state:   in relation to the general pharmaceutical benefits patient increase from $2 to $2.50, 1 believe that there could be some hardship for some people in our community. 
Quite clearly the increase from $2.50 to $2.75 will also cause some hardship to some people in our community. Who are going to suffer? Who in terms of equity deserve to be thought about but are neglected in these changes? First of all the socially disadvantaged. The Government has recognised that these people should be treated free of charge by their doctors but, of course, they are to get no concessions in terms of pharmaceutical benefits. They will have to pay this extra cost even though the Government is prepared in a very loose and unsatisfactory way to recognise that such people do exist. Secondly, as I have pointed out, this system of making the user pay strikes particularly at families, for children constitute a high proportion of cost in this field. It cerainly will increase the burden particularly on single income families with a large number of dependent children. Thirdly, of course, those chronically ill, who are outside any of the protected categories, will also suffer as a result of these increases. I conclude by saying that there is no immediate reason for these charges in view of the cost increases which have occurred over the last three years compared with the increases in terms of patient contribution. A major report on the whole of this field is in the offing. It would have been a sensible and competent way of handling the problem to look at this issue in relation to that report. One sees that there is no reason whatsoever for these changes other than simply the deficit neurosis of this Government. 
-There are just two brief comments I would like to make on the outburst of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  at the end of the second reading stage. First of all, as to the allegations about increases to be paid by the patient on pharmaceutical benefits, in the four years of Labor rule there was one rise of 50c. In the four years of this Government's rule, a rise of 50c occurred in 1976, a further rise of 50c in 1 978, and now there is a rise of 25c. As to the Minister's inelegant phrase that we 'stuffed the doctors' mouths with gold', I do not wish to comment on that other than to say that, unlike this Government and the doctors, it was not mutual. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-The Budget is some three weeks old and clearly has already gone sour. There was a temporary euphoria, the first response to the Budget, but very quickly both in this House and in the country this particular Budget has gone sour. One can see that it has gone sour in the House simply by examining the comments of the speakers in its defence. 
One of the advantages of coming into the debate somewhat late is that one can make an analysis of the speeches of those who have got up to defend the Budget. Apart from the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  only three Liberal speakers have attempted either a comprehensive defence of the Budget or a defence of its major provisions against the charges that have been brought against them. Those three were New South Welshmen- the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  and the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  who has just spoken also made that effort in his three minute speech. But those members are the only members on the Government side who in the weeks of this debate have made any real attempt to defend the Budget. I think the adequacy of their defence leaves much to be desired- I will examine it in due coursebut at least they made an effort to defend the Budget. 
The remainder of the members who have spoken from the Government side, having decided that the Budget was either indefensible or perhaps incomprehensible, opted for one of three courses. Let me examine the kinds of defence that they have presented. First of all we heard what is now typical in this House- a ranting on about the Whitlam years and a savaging of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  Apparently these speakers were mostly oblivious to the fact that their Government has been in charge of the economy of this country for four years. We have now had four years of Liberal economics. It is no defence of this Liberal Budget simply to go back to the period 1972-75. We have had four years of Liberal economics, four years of a stagnating economy, four years of depressed demand and four years of rising unemployment. It is on the Goverment^ economic policy that the Australian people will deliver their verdict in the next 18 months. 
The tactic of simply bringing up the years 1972-75 or of simply savaging the speech of the Leader of the Opposition was led, needless to say, by that merchant of froth and bubble, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the chief parliamentary blatherer, abetted him. Another eagerbeaver in the cause- I am sorry that he has just left the House- was the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton).  He has pursued the Leader of the Opposition assiduously. He said: 'I have kept a copy of every speech that he has made*. One can only wish that for his sake and for the sake of the New South Wales Liberal 
Party he had pursued  Mr Lyenko  Urbanchich with the same assiduity as he has pursued the Leader of the Opposition. 
Nearly all of those speeches referred, of course, to the donkey-walloping incident. Indeed, the speech of the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  would have been more than usually vacuous if he had not had an opportunity to orate for some paragraphs on donkey-walloping. I think I can characterise this whole performance by the Government on the donkey-walloping theme. What we had was simply a cacophony of asses braying a bout their own mistreatment. Indeed, one only has to consider the Government benches in this House to realise that all members of the Opposition are inevitably donkey-wallopers, at least metaphorically speaking. That was the first response. It was simply either to attack the Leader of the Opposition or to talk about the Whitlam years. There was no defence of the Budget. 
A second response from the Government benches was what I call the parochial response, that is, to abandon any defence of the broad economic policies of the Budget and to talk about the particular themes of the Budget in a parochial context. Needless to say, that was a very popular approach with the National Country Party members. We heard what I can only call a rural lament from the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd).  He lamented over telephone charges, fuel costs and the rural inadequacies of the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme. 
Then, from the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  we heard complaints about the costs and inadequacy of rural fuel supplies and worries about the television coverage in rural areas of test matches. He included for good measure in his speech a castigation of  Broadband.  He described that program as 'garbage'. I can only say personally that any program castigated by the honourable member for Kennedy would ipso facto be worth listening to. Then we had the extraordinary exhibition of the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher). His  speech sounded like a left-over from some transport debate. For 20 minutes the virtues of the southern railway were compared with the virtues of the Hume Highway. Let me say that all these things were, no doubt, worthy causes but none of them constituted a defence of the third Howard Budget. 
Finally, there were quite idiosyncratic responses by Government members. I think the classic example of the idiosyncratic response was made by the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  who devoted almost entirely the whole of his speech to California's Proposition 1 3 with scarcely a reference to this Budget or, indeed, to this country. Of course, as Proposition 13 was concerned with a drastic cut in California's taxation, I can assume only that the honourable member was using this approach to attack his own Government because it is now clear that whatever else this Government might be it is certainly not a government devoted to taxation cuts. 
Let us look at those few members- very few indeed- on the Government side who have attempted any real defence of this Budget. The honourable member for Berowra said: 
The performance ofthe economy over the past 12 months has been pretty good. 
I like the word 'pretty'. I think one could say equally well that the performance of the Australian economy over the last 12 months has been pretty bad. Let us give the Government a couple of points. It is true that there has been an improvement in the balance of payments position, partly the result of the export growth and also the private capital inflow. Let us recognise that there has been an improvement there, but it is a pity that that improvement is not being used because it gives expansionary possibilities that this economy may not have had in recent years. Again, one also admits that there has been some improvements in business fixed investment and in business profits. One can collect a few facts like that. The honourable member for Berowra did his best with newspaper headlines to put together enough facts to suggest that somehow, over the last 12 months as a result of this Government's policy, the economy has been pretty good. 
Let us look at the overwhelming evidence that over the last 12 months the economy has been pretty bad. For the third year running the economic policies of the Government have failed to work. As in 1976-77 and again in 1977-78, so in 1 978-79 the economy had just not responded to the economic medicine prescribed by this Government. I think it should be now clear to the Australian people that it is impossible for them to go on having faith, either in the economic policies advanced by this Government or in the Treasury gremlins that guide them. One could examine what the Government promised in each of the Budget Speeches and then examine what happened to those promises. Perhaps 'promises' is the wrong word. I am told that the word promises' is not used now by the Government. The word we should use is 'projections'. Let us examine the projections made by the Treasurer last year, the indices he suggested we should watch in order to judge the health or otherwise of the economy. I want to suggest that if we examine the things that the Treasurer suggested we should emphasise then we will discover that, in fact, on his own measures and on his own indices, in the last 12 months it is truer to say of the Australian economy that it went pretty badly rather than pretty well. 
Let me deal with each of these indices advanced by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech last year to see how they have worked. First of all an obvious one is, of course, the deficit miscalculation. In the Budget projection of last year a deficit of $2,8 1 3m was promised which, we were told by the Treasurer, would be a reduction of $52 lm over 1977-78, that is, the Government was bringing down the deficit. Of course, what we actually got was a deficit of $3,478m, an increase in fact of $145m over the Budget deficit for the previous year. I am not a Budget fetishist as the Government is, but if we accept the arguments advanced by the Government of the importance of the deficit to the control of inflation in this country, that kind of failure, that kind of miscalculation- and for the second year running- undoubtedly has inflationary implications. That is the argument of Treasury. If, in fact, there are these serious deficit miscalculations then, on the Government's own argument, that failure injects inflationary elements into the Australian economy. 
Let me take the second of the indices used by the Treasurer in 1978 to suggest how we should make a measurement of the economy in the past 12 months. He said: 
The firm control of the monetary aggregates which the Government has put in place since early in 1976 has contributed much to the subsequent wind-down in inflation. 
He also said: 
In this regard- and despite the acknowledged uncertainties in such projections- 
I want to be fair to the Treasurer; 1 want to put in the qualifications he made. He stated: 
I now state that this Budget is consistent with an outlook for financial conditions indicated by growth in the broadly defined volume of money (M3) in the range of 6-8 per cent over the course of 1 978-79. 
What was, in fact, the growth in the money supply as measured through M3 in 1978-79? The growth rate was 1 1.8 per cent. That is nearly double the lower figure suggested. I know the Treasurer abandoned this projection in April 1979 as inappropriate. I recognise that certain economic developments led to a reconsideration of the money supply position. The Budget 
Papers, for instance, provide a whole host of excuses for the blowing out of money supply. There were Reserve Bank advances to finance the wheat crop, there was a turn-around in the private sector foreign exchange transactions and there was a reduction in demand for government securities. All of these excuses are advanced and, no doubt, contain some elements of truth. What the Treasury Papers, of course, do not mention is that there was, in the latter part of 1978 and the early part of 1979, monetary mismanagement in this country; that, in fact, the blowing out of the money supply was partly the result of a mishandling of the monetary position in the latter months of 1978 and the early months of 1979. 1 do not know of any leading economic commentator who has not brought that kind of criticism against the Government about its monetary management in the latter part of the year. If this is true then what happens to the statement made by the Treasurer that the firm control of the monetary aggregates have had much to do with the subsequent wind-down in inflation? If, in fact, the infirm control of the monetary aggregates which took place in the latter part of 1978 and early 1979- if it was infirmed, as I clearly would suggest- then it has had some contribution to the accelerating pattern of inflation in this country. The Treasurer cannot escape, on his own argument, some responsibility through monetary mismanagement for what is again becoming the great problem for this economy, the acceleration of inflation. 
We then come to another of the indices suggested by the Treasurer. He said that the Government promises a 'further sustainable reduction in interest rates'. Indeed, that promise, which was inappropriate in the monetary conditions of the time, was partly responsible for the monetary mismanagement at the end of the year. Of course, the effort to bring down interest rates in that period contributed to the blowing out of the money supply but it also had the effect of compelling interest rates back up. What we have now is that the downward trend in interest rates, in 1 978, which were inappropriate for the market conditions at the time, was reversed in early 1 979. That is certainly true of the official rates. So another of the kinds of projections made by the Treasurer for the health of the economy in the period 1978-79 was not met. Then we were told by the Treasurer in 1978: 
The personal saving ratio is likely to continue to decline and private consumption expenditure can be expected to grow at a healthy pace. 
That did not occur. The personal savings ratio increased over the year and all the signs are that it is likely to go on increasing. The depressed demand situation of this economy ran through 1978- 79 and looks as though it will be more threatening to economic development in the coming year. 
1979- 80? 
I am saying that we should make a judgment on the accuracy of the Treasurer's projections by looking at what he said last year and at what has happened in the past 12 months. If the honourable member is prepared to do that, then any faith that he could have in the economic management of his own party would rapidly dissipate. This was another promise made in the Treasurer's statement a year ago: 
Overall, gross non-farm product is projected to grow by around 4 per cent in real terms in 1 978-79. 
In 1978-79 that growth was distinctly below that figure; it was 2.8 per cent. We usually consider that that measurement is the most effective measurement of growth in the economy. It fell well below the Treasurer's prediction. One of the interesting things is the response of the Treasury gremlins when they have problems like this. They know that the failure of that growth projection undermines much of the economic argument of last year's Budget. If one reads the Budget Papers for this year one will discover that the Treasury gremlins have, at enormous length, tried to explain why these predictions go wrong. Indeed, I suggest that, when we read the Budget Papers in the future, and the Government has long and involved statistical explanations that is a sure sign of a Treasury cover-up of a failed projection. 
Last year the Treasurer said in his Budget Speech: 
With even reasonably sensible outcomes for wage determination, inflation is expected to be running at an annual rate down towards 5 per cent by mid- 1 979. 
He knows that that has been completely falsified. If one reads the 1979-80 Budget Papers, one sees that the explanation is that overseas factors are the chief reason for this failure. To be fair to the Treasurer, there are certain overseas factors which have affected the failure of his inflation projections. But, the failure of those inflation projections is as much the fault of the Government in terms of the way in which it developed indirect taxes over the last 12 months. The fact that we now have an inflation rate running at about 9 per cent is due to the deficit fetish in pursuance of which the Government said: 'We will put on indirect taxes to solve our deficit problem'. Therefore, the Government directly puts into the economy the inflationary factors of indirect taxes. For instance, the health changes which are now being made will have an inflationary effect in the coming year. The petrol taxes which were introduced last year had an inflationary impact last year and will have an increasingly inflationary impact in the coming year. The changes in other indirect taxes in the last Budget fed into the inflationary spiral. By trying to cut the deficit with the introduction of indirect taxes the Government is even more directly fuelling inflation in this country. If there is one major criticism to be made of last year's Budget and this Budget in terms of the total management of this economy, it is that in pursuit of a cut in the deficit, in adherence to a deficit fetish, the Government through indirect taxespetrol taxes, increased health charges and other indirect taxes- is directly fuelling the accelerating inflation in this economy. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
Motion (by  Mr John  McLeay)- by leaveagreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Prime Minister speaking without limitation of time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 31 May 1979: 
1 ) How does the Department of Social Security determine the value of British pensions, when making allowance for these pensions in the payment of Australian social security benefits. 
How often does the Department of Social Security make determinations on the value of British pensions. 
Are there any means to ensure that the determination by the Department will be equivalent to the amounts actually paid at the banks to those with British pensions. 
I grieve for the fact that in the past 10 days the economy of South Australia has been subjected to the most unprecedented assault and denigration. That has been done not in the pursuit of truth or of any rational debate about that economy, but in the pursuit of naked partisan self-interest. The vendetta has in fact not been led by the Liberal Opposition in South Australia, but by the local Murdoch newspaper and a local businessmen's group acting as a kind of front for the Liberal Opposition. 
Night after night, not merely in the editorials of the  News,  but in its front pages, its headlines and its selection of stories, it has displayed a bias unparalled in my experience of State politics. For instance, every front page headline for September has been either slanted against the Labor Party or deliberately pro-Liberal- with one exception on 3 September. I think that even Liberal members, if they would place - 
What happened then? It was a rather tragic event which pushed even the 
South Australian election off the front page. The  News  has in fact ceased to be a newspaper and has become the propaganda sheet of a particular party. 
Day after day businessmen have inserted their full-page advertisements, their television advertisements and their radio advertisements which are as simplistic as they are misleading. We are told by the  Australian Financial Review  that the cost is now something like $100,000. I think it was Disraeli who said: 
There are three kinds of lies: Lies, damned lies and statistics. 
These advertisements illustrate the third of those forms of dishonesty. For instance, there was an advertisement comparing retail sales throughout Australia. The figures may look effective, but we need to look at them in the context of their interpretation. I will take an interpretation from the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd publication  Business Indicators,  which is certainly not a socialist journal. In commenting on the statistics of retail sales in South Australia it said: 
A further encouraging sign was the apparent upturn in retail sales in the March quarter. Retail sales in this period totalled $A563.9m, 1 1.6 per cent higher than the March quarter for 1968. Over the same period consumer prices rose by 7.S per cent. On this basis, this is the first time for  2'A  years, that the increase in retail sales has been significantly ahead of the increase in consumer prices. 
It went on to say: 
This strengthening in retail sales appears to have contributed to a lift in business confidence and in recent months there has been an upsurge in demand for bank finance for business development. 
This week the assault on the South Australian economy has been aided and abetted and the debate further debased by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  by his lackey the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  and by numerous Liberal back benchers in both Houses of the Federal Parliament. 
I am not surprised by the attitude of the  News.  It has been the avowed aim of the editor of that paper, and no doubt of its absentee proprietor, to destroy the Dunstan and now the Corcoran Government. 
I suggest to the honourable member for Barker that if in fact his Liberal principles were somewhat higher than his partisan self-interest, he also would condemn what has happened to the  News  in South Australia. If one examines the  News  one finds that the responsibilities of a free Press in a democratic society have been abandoned in South Australia. I am not atacking the  Advertiser.  I think that it has given a fair go in its news columns. However, the  News  has abandoned the responsibilities of a free Press in a democratic society. I am not talking about the editorial position; but the duty to ensure that there is a reasonably impartial news coverage has been jettisoned and the onus to provide a fair opportunity for all parties in the news section of the newspaper has been neglected. With the  News  in South Australia we simply have two perverts- the editor and the proprietor perverting the democratic process in the State of South Australia. 
I am again not surprised by the attitude of segments of the business community in South Australia. It is well known that elements of the business elite in South Australia are the most incompetent, parochial, neurotic and reactionary in Australia. I will give evidence in support of each of those propositions. Firstly, I refer to incompetence. In the boardrooms of many of the multinational companies involved in South Australia - 
Several times. I may not go again after this, but several times. The views of multinational companies about sections of the business community of South Australia and their competence are worth hearing. Many of us here have no doubt heard them. An example of the level of competence is, of course, the collapse of the Bank of Adelaide. The local business elite in South Australia could not even run a finance company, let alone understand the economy of that State. 
I now refer to the proposition that they are neurotic. I have no doubt that these poor businessmen believe most of the things that they are saying. They are so blinkered and parochial that I have no doubt they have convinced themselves. In fact,  Mr Jackson,  the  chairman  of CSR Ltd- not a socialist in any way- went to South Australia in February of this year. He chided the local businessmen on their neuroses. He said: 
Pessimism like optimism is a state of mind, which is highly infectious and tends to be self-fulfilling. 
He went on to give examples of what was happening amongst the business elite in South Australia. Referring to the proposition that they are reactionary, I think that the only thing I need to do is to ask honourable members opposite to ask their Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  for his opinion of the troglodytic views of elements of the South Australian business community on industrial democracy. 
Government supporters should ask their own Minister for that evidence. 
However, I am somewhat disappointed that South Australian members of this parliament should traduce their State in such an irresponsible way. South Australian members of this parliament have knocked their State simply for partisan advantage, without any consideration of the real causes of the economic difficulties or of the real economic advantage that South Australia possesses. 
There are two general lessons I want to draw from this debate on the economic health of South Australia. First of all, I believe that the strike threat made by the building workers in response to the businessmen's campaign was unwise, but I also believe that it was understandable. If the money power of business is used in so blatant a way, and the Press manipulated in the interests of a single party, then such reactions are inevitable. I say to honourable members with respect to electoral fair play and to achieving a fair balance in resources between the parties, we have been extremely lucky in this country in regard to political violence. But if the economic resources of the parties become too disparate, and if the behaviour of the Press creates a hopelessly onesided competition, then this country will not escape forms of political violence. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting, I said that there were two lessons to be learned from recent events in South Australia. The first of those is that this country has been extraordinarily lucky in terms of political violence but I suggested that unless the competition between the parties is reasonably fair and is seen to be reasonably fair our luck will run out. The second lesson is that I think we in this House can all agree that this country faces enormous economic problems. We will make no real contributions to those problems in this Parliament if the debate is debased as has been the debate over the South Australian economy. We need to search for the real causes of our problems and not simply score points. We need to argue the issues and not rant about the past. We will not necessarily agree on the solutions but only by such means will the Parliament contribute to the solution of our economic ills. 
I will conclude by looking at the question of unemployment in South Australia in that way. Firstly I will give the facts. If we take the Commonwealth Employment Services figures the percentage of the total work force registered as unemployed in Australia is 6.4 per cent. In South 
Australia it is one per cent higher at 7.4 per cent. If we take the figures issued by the Australian Bureau of Statistics which the Government has been using the average unemployment rate in Australia is 5.8 per cent and 8.2 per cent in South Australia. But we need to interpret those figures. Unemployment is a national phenomenon. One can go anywhere in Australia today and find areas in which the unemployment figures are much higher than those in South Australia. Western Australia is not far behind South Australia with an unemployment rate of 7.4 per cent. The Federal Government has never denied that it is prepared in the interests of its economic policies to tolerate a high level of unemployment. The great bulk of unemployment in South Australia is clearly federally induced as it is throughout Australia. Only a fool would deny that. 
What is at issue is the margin or the excess over the generally high levels of unemployment in the nation. I make one comparison. Would Liberals want to argue, given their peculiar logic, that the fact that Western Australia last month had the worst unemployment in Australia was the fault of  Sir Charles  Court's Government? 
I know that it is the custom of this House, in the case of the introduction of a Bill that has already been passed by the other place, that the second reading speech in this House is virtually word for word the speech given in the other place. However, when the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  introduced this Bill on 22 May, the fact that he repeated sentence for sentence and paragraph for paragraph the speech delivered some three months earlier by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in the other place did show a certain contempt for this House. Indeed, in the Minister's speech there were only four alterations. One paragraph and three sentences were altered. That does seem to suggest a certain contempt for the profound and extensive debate that had taken place in the other House. Was it not worth the Government rethinking at least some of that introductory speech in the light of the impressive debate that had taken place in the other House? 
Today we are dealing with a package of measures designed to provide a legislative structure for the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. We have long had such an organisation, but it has had no adequate legislative structure. The present- the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act 1956- is skeletal, vacuous and perfunctory. It fails to spell out precisely the functions of the Organisation, its powers, or the form and extent of its responsibility. Let it be said that this package of measures at least attempts to lay down a charter for ASIO and a definition of its functions, the extent of its powers and the rights of citizens with respect to the Organisation. In that sense this Bill is at least an improvement on what we have. 
It is a regrettable necessity that any country will need intelligence agencies of some kind to protect it against forms of external espionage, subversion, sabotage and terrorism by foreign powers. The nature of the international environment makes that a necessity, although I think it should be noted that we in Australia are probably much more fortunate than most other embattled societies. Secondly, it is an evilperhaps a necessary evil- that we may also require intelligence agencies to counter internally generated subversion, sabotage and terrorism. It is somewhat paradoxical that a democracy should require such protection against its own citizens. Indeed, in one sense it is a measure of failure. The greater the power, the authority and the activity of secret intelligence agencies with respect to its own citizens, the weaker that democracy is. There is almost certainly an inverse correlation between the strength of secret intelligence agencies and the strength of the democracy. 
Taking the full extent of the continuum, on one end is the totalitarian state where secret police are an essential instrument of coercion and control, and at the other end is an ideal democratic state which is fully confident about its internal situation and which needs no protection against its own citizens. Therefore, those who wish to preserve an open and democratic society need to be peculiarly aware of, and concerned about, the secret arm of government. That is the reason why this legislation needs very special attention. It may be that paradoxically it is necessary that we have a secret arm of government to preserve an open and democratic society, but that should never render us complacent about the supervision, accountability and responsibility of that organisation. 
History should warn us that the so-called guardians of the democratic way of life often becomes its gravediggers. If one examines the betrayal of the Weimar democracy, one of the agents of that betrayal was its own secret police which owed a higher allegiance, or at least another allegiance in that deteriorating situation in Weimar Germany in the late 1 920s. 
The role of the American secret agencies in the Mccarthyite perversions of the 1950s was a threat to the very democracy that the secret agencies were designed to protect. These agencies have been used by at least one American President to deny American citizens their democratic rights, and in fact used by him to corrupt the electoral process which is surely at the heart of the democratic system. 
We in Australia have no cause for smugness about the performance of our own security organisations in the past. In his report on intelligence and security  Mr Justice  Hope stated: 
There are limitations upon what a security organisation should do in a democratic society. Aims, even of security, do not justify all means. What has to be kept secure is not simply a physical entity; the society which exists within Australia is one with standards and principles which secure rights and freedoms as well as obligations. That society is not to be safeguarded by a repudiation of those standards or those principles with the consequent erosion of rights and freedoms. 
This has certainly occurred in other countries.  Mr Justice  Hope continued: 
Material before me establishes that there have at times been departures by ASIO from these principles. The departures have been of varying significance. Their justification has also varied in weight. 

 Mr Justice Hope was very discreet, but let us not pretend that we did not have our own McCarthyism in this society in the 1950s, that we did not have our own anti-communist hysteria and we did not have ASIO involved in the slime of those events. As  Mr Justice  Hope points out, there was much bias, inaccuracy and sheer waste involved in the material collected by ASIO in Australia. This was also made very clear in the examination done by  Mr Justice  White in South Australia when he looked at the work of the Special Branch in that State.  Mr Justice  White stated: 
My perusal of Special Branch files shows that many hundreds of people have done nothing more than take an active part in many causes where time and changing opinion have usually proved them to be right in the eyes of most Australians- campaigns against involvement in the Vietnam war or conscription for the purposes of that war, the importance of the environment and ecology and so on. They are the kinds of activities that active persons with a social conscience and a vision of a better Australia are entitled to be involved in without the brand of suspected subversion. 
Indeed, much of  Mr Justice  White's report indicates that anything slightly left wing was treated as subversive and therefore worthy of the surveillance of the Special Branch agencies. 
Again, we know that ASIO in this country has leaked material to the Press in order to help to corrupt the democratic process itself. Information collected by ASIO surveillance has then been leaked and used politically. In this regard  Mr Justice  Hope stated: 
Evidence is available to me that satisfies me that ASIO has in the past provided selected people with security intelligence material for publication. 
So let us not be smug. We have had the same perversions in this country by the secret arm as the United States of America has suffered and as other democracies have suffered. We need to ensure that, as in other democratic societies, the secret agencies of government do not contaminate the democratic process. Therefore, we need to be particularly vigilant, and particularly vigilant today when the threat of terrorism is too easily used as a justification for breaching the liberties of all citizens. I think it is very easy to create a climate of fear about terrorism, much the same as the climate of fear of communism in an earlier period. 
Therefore, for these reasons, the Opposition will not simply bow down to the kind of vacuous rhetoric- reasons of state, defence of the realm, national interest- which has been used down the centuries to prevent and inhibit inquiry into the secret actions and agents of government. We are not prepared to leave this legislation unchallenged because the present operators responsible for ASIO, the Attorney-General,  Senator Durack,  and the Director-General,  Mr Justice  Woodward, are men of integrity. We do not deny that these two men are men of integrity but that is no reason for accepting this Bill. We know that organisations like ASIO are themselves corrosive of the integrity of men, and others, with previous reputations ibr integrity, have been corroded by such organisations. But, more importantly, neither  Senator Durack  nor  Mr Justice  Woodward is immortal and there will be other men working under the provisions of this Bill. Certainly one could have no confidence in the future of this organisation unless the Bill before the House is radically amended. 
We have four major fields of concern. Firstly, there is the supervision and accountability of ASIO. What we want to try to secure is to involve the Parliament in some way in this supervision. We want to secure a periodic judicial audit. We want to strengthen the role of the Minister visavis the Director-General, that is, strengthen the role of the representative figure against the bureaucrat. We want a greater involvement of the Leader of the Opposition in this supervision. We want to institute a proper system of financial accountability for the organisation and we wish to reduce the inhibitions on public discussions of ASIO. Only by that whole complex of changes can we assure effective supervision of and accountability by ASIO. 
The second major cause of concern is the scope of security activity. We desire a redefinition of the concept of security, in particular of the critical element of subversion. It is far too broad and all encompassing. The third major concern is the need to balance security requirements against the right to privacy of individual citizens; that is, whatever security needs there may be for bugging and wire tapping, those needs have to be balanced very firmly against the right of the individual to privacy. Therefore, we want to tighten the circumstances under which warrants for wire tapping and electronic surveillance should be issued. We want to restrict the period for which such warrants should operate. Our fourth major field of concern is that we want to look at the security appeal system. We recognise it as an advance, but we would like to see an element of retrospectivity introduced into the system and we want to broaden the notification provisions. 
Let me take each of those briefly in turn and particularly the all important issue of the supervision and accountability of ASIO. It is an extremely difficult and complex task to ensure effective supervision and accountability of a secret agency. Indeed, I think it is more difficult than was recognised by  Mr Justice  Hope himself. It is certainly not satisfactorily resolved in this Bill. 
First is the question of responsibility to the appropriate Minister; that is, the normal pattern of government responsibility with the civil servant being responsible to the appropriate Minister. There is a danger here, what I might call the Nixon phenomenon; that is, there is always a danger in that kind of relationship that the secret arm of government may be perverted for the political domestic ends of the executive concerned, as was clearly done in the case of  President  Nixon. I think this Government is aware of that problem in terms of ministerial responsibility. It has tried to cover it fairly clearly in clause 8 but, in doing so, it has run into the other danger, the alternative danger, what I might call the authoritarian arrogance of the private arm of government. It is exemplified by the Weimar phenomenon, or, in South Australia, the Salisbury phenomenon where the secret service believes it has a loyalty to some higher concept- to the state, to the Crown, or in the case of ASIO, to the Central Intelligence Agency; it has some loyalty over and above, higher and more important than its loyalty or responsibility to the elected executive. 
All of these situations which I have just mentioned- the Weimar, Salisbury and the ASIO responsibility to the CIA- deny the responsibility of the intelligence agency to the democratically elected government of the day. Thus in seeking to avoid what I call the Nixon perversion, there is a real danger of allowing an autonomy to the intelligence agency which is equally subversive of democratic interests. Too great a supervision has its dangers but, equally, Weimar should remind us that too little supervision is equally fraught with peril. It seems to me that in this Bill the Government is insufficiently sensitive to the threat posed by a security service with a dangerous degree of autonomy. 
But even if this relationship is satisfactorily solved, if both the Nixon danger and the Salisbury danger are avoided- that is, if we get a satisfactory balance between the Executive and the agency- the problem is not solved because, as Justice Hope notes in his third report, often the Executive becomes very perfunctory about its responsibilities. He states: 
There has been a tendency over the years for ministers to take the intelligence security business for granted or to leave it to go its own way. 
That the Executive becomes perfunctory or careless is one danger. The other danger of the relationship is that it becomes symbiotic- the Executive and the agency are parasitic on each other. That, of course, is the sort of typical relationship between the Executive and bureaucracy throughout the whole Public Service. There is a belief that the Executive and the bureaucracy together know what is good for us all and that they alone have the expertise to manage things. Such a relationship needs to be criticised by this Parliament. In the case of security that criticism is essential. Security is just too important to be left to this unholy duo of Executive and bureaucracy. Therefore, the Parliament must be brought into the supervisory role. 
I think it must be said of Justice Hope that he is rather cavalier about the Parliament. Of course, too many people in this Parliament tolerate that kind of cavalier attitude toward the Parliament. He dismisses the notion of a supervisory committee being provided by the Parliament. Further he argues that Ministers should not respond to parliamentary questions on ASIO. In addition he opposes provisions to ensure the presentation of an annual report by ASIO to the Parliament, and he is against adequate financial information on ASIO being placed before the Parliament. Whilst Justice Hope dismisses all of these proposals for the Parliament to play a role in ASIO- he says that none of those things are possible and that Parliament cannot play a rolebut at the same time he maintains that ASIO has a role in supervising individual politicians. We need to think a little more about that relationship. Unfortunately, because of what Justice Hope said, in this Bill the Government gives no role whatsoever to the Parliament. The Labor Party believes that it is necessary to involve Parliament in the supervision of ASIO. 
I am not saying that such a proposal provides any easy solution. There are too many historic cases of secret services becoming simply the instruments of popular prejudice manipulated by demagogues. I am not suggesting that the Parliament is in itself a solution. For instance, in the Mccarthyite period in the United States the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency became willing instruments of a Congress reflecting the popular anticommunist hysteria of the time. 
-There are similarities between these secret arms of government and the role played by ASIO. I agree that we can also make distinctions between them. We need to note today the ease with which in our society popular prejudice can be manipulated against small religious sects, particularly those of oriental persuasion, and this prejudice can infect the Parliament. Thus Parliament provides no answer in itself to the complex task of supervising and rendering ASIO accountable in Australian society. Therefore, finally, we need to involve the judiciary in the process as well. 
If honourable members have followed the argument that I have tried to build up about supervision of ASIO, they will see that what we need to meet a complex problem is a complex, multifaceted system of control. There is a beginning in this Bill and we need to complete it in the amendments that we make. Believing that the autonomy of ASIO is the least recognised danger, the Labor Party would strengthen the powers of the Minister vis-a-vis the DirectorGeneral to ensure that the only information the Director-General could withhold from the Minister would be the content of files relating to particular individuals. To protect the people against an Executive bureaucratic alliance we would first of all strengthen the role of the Leader of the Opposition by ensuring full and regular briefings. Secondly, we would try to involve the Parliament by providing it with an annual report and financial information on ASIO. It is simply nonsense to suggest that useful information on these matters could not be provided to Parliament without endangering security of ASIO personnel. I would be perfectly content with a one-page report which included the number of telephone taps and their duration and the number of listening devices placed and the duration of their placement. If that one-page report came to this Parliament we would have some chance of supervising the incidence of this type of cancer in our society. It may be necessary to have these devices, but at least this Parliament needs to be able to supervise the incidence of their use. Such a report would give away no security secrets. Indeed, it might suggest how active our security is. 
I do not believe that even the honourable member for Lilley could oppose on any ground whatsoever this piece of information being provided regularly to the Parliament. 
This debate will continue and we will deal with many of the other issues which I have raised but it seems to me that the first and most important question is to try to involve the whole complex of our authorities- judiciary, Executive and Parliament- in an adequate supervision of this organisation. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health and I do so as a result of his rhetorical concern to keep down health costs. Has the Auditor-General, in his report tabled yesterday, made nine specific criticisms of unsatisfactory matters in the payment of Commonwealth medical benefits since 1 November 1978 and a number of shortcomings in checks on the daily bed payments of private hospitals? In view of the fact that $593m and $75m respectively are involved in these areas of expenditure, will the Minister order an urgent review of his Department's methods to prevent both private hospitals and health insurance funds from further ripping off the taxpayer? 
ln my brief period in this House I have strongly supported the establishment of Estimates committees, although I am afraid that I have had no consultation on this matter with members from the other side. Certainly, all of us here would believe that virtually any change in the process for the handling by this House of the Estimates would be some improvement. 
The Opposition is clearly unhappy about both the substance of the proposals that have been presented and the manner in which they have been brought forward. Two critical points of substance have already been made- the problem of the logistics of the two committees and the problem of the amount of time for discussion at the report stage. I think the honourable member for 
Moore  (Mr Hyde)  made a considered response to those problems. There is a great danger that these committees, as they are conceived at the moment, will emerge as very superficial committees. I do not think that sufficient consideration has been given to the problems inherent in them. We may get simply a superficial palliative. I worry about this because there is already growing disillusionment about the workings of the legislation committees of this House. It seems to me that if we are to succeed in reform we will need a thoroughly worked out plan so that the system works reasonably well from the start. I think that the legislation committees are in danger of just dying in this House because of the way in which they have been used. 
The other problem is the manner in which these proposals have been brought forward. I do not think that the manner in which these proposals were initiated give us very much confidence about reform. I understand that the proposals evolved from a so-called reform committee on the Government side and that now, in a somewhat attenuated form, they have been bestowed on the Parliament by the Executive. I say quite clearly- and this is a chance to protest about this procedure- that that is not the way in which to reform this Parliament. This institution cannot be reformed at the behest of the Government parties alone. This institution cannot be reformed simply by the Executive bestowing upon the Parliament what reforms the Executive will accept. If reforms are to be accepted and acceptable to the Parliament they must meet not just the needs of the Executive, not just the needs of the Liberal Party and certainly not just the needs of the Labor Party, but the needs of the whole Parliament. It seems to me that it would be wise in future to determine any reform through the appropriate all-party committees of this House or, if need be, to create an all-party committee to do that. I believe that unless we concern ourselves with the manner in which we develop these reforms they will fail, as I fear the legislation committee proposals are beginning to fail in this House. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
Has the Australian Atomic Energy Commission or any other Federal agency established a trans-uranium register of persons who have come into contact with uranium or its radio-active products so that the long term effect on health can be monitored: if not, why not 
-I cannot see what the last five minutes rhetoric has to do with the word 'ultimately'. I just ask to have half the time used by the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  simply to correct the prime historical fallacy, because it relates fundamentally to this debate. As I suggested the other day, the important point is that, both in the case of Weimar Germany and in the case of democratic Austria in the 1930s, the government was betrayed by its secret police. In both of those cases forces within the secret agencies owed their loyalty either to an old regime or to bodies outside the democratic government. The whole of our purpose in this debate is not to destroy the authority of democratic governments but to prevent those sorts of things from happening- to make sure that the secret agencies which we necessarily have to employ but which we regret employing are, in fact, responsible to the democratic government. 
-As it was necessary yesterday to make a protest about our non-involvement in the evolution of these schemes, I take this opportunity today to congratulate those back bench members of the Government who were responsible for the evolution of this scheme. I hope that in the future when efforts are made to reform this institutionand I believe that is necessary- we will be able to do that activity at least co-operatively. I also think that this is an important advance in what I see as being a major institutional struggle in this country between the two Houses of this Parliament. It always seemed to me to be an anomaly that the Senate should have Estimates committees and that this House, which, whatever the debate, is certainly the primary House in the field of finance, did not have such committees. 
I think it was regrettable that when the Joint Committee on Committees for the Parliament examined these issues, although it recognised the prior claims of the House of Representatives in finance it nevertheless decided against recommending the establishment of Estimates committees for this House. I think that in making this decision today a minor but significant gain has been made in what we see as being a vital institutional struggle in this country. Of course, it is now up to the members of this House to make sure that our Estimates committees work more successfully than, according to rumour do some of the Senate Estimates committees. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to 8 p.m. 
-We are discussing the third of the definitions of subversion- the one which I find the most suspect of the three. As it stands at the moment, the definition refers to:  activities directed to promoting violence or hatred between different groups of persons in the Australian community so as to endanger the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. 
We propose, in our amendment, to retain the word 'violence' but to omit the words 'or hatred', partly because we find this perhaps the most subjective and difficult of all the definitions in clause 5(1). With the indulgence of the Chair, I will take as a guiding principle the guidelines provided by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)-  the 'Lilley-Dundas guidelines'- on how to approach these definitional problems. It seems to me that in their arguments today they have produced three major guidelines as the basis for rejecting the amendments proposed by the Opposition. One is that the definitions should not be changed because we must allow an exercise of judgment to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Another is that the definitions must not be changed because we must trust ASIO. The third is that we should not meddle with definitions; rather, we should approach them, in the words of the honourable member for Dundas, with a little caution. I am perfectly happy to take those guidelines on board in discussing this particular amendment. I refer first of all to the claim that we should not interfere with those definitions because we have to allow the ASIO agents an exercise of judgment. Let me make quite clear the agents about whom we are talking. The honourable member for Dundas suggested a moment ago that all these issues, such as defining which group was creating hatred, somehow would go to the Director-General. Quite clearly that is a naive approach because time and again the decisions will be made locally by individual agents, and because the definitions are broad enough, or wide enough, then the agent can justify his decisions. Indeed, on this exercise of ASIO judgment, even if the Government accepted every amendment proposed by the Opposition, there still would be enormous room for ASIO to make judgments. 
What we are arguing on this side is that this Parliament has a responsibility to be as precise as possible in the definition of the functions of ASIO. So, even if it accepted all our amendments, there still would be a considerable area in which ASIO agents could exercise their judgment. The Opposition is saying that it is the responsibility of this Parliament to make these definitions as precise as possible. There is then the issue of trusting ASIO. I always thought that it was the conservative parties that had the rather pessimistic view of the nature of man. Here we have a situation in which there is a powerful organisation with, in the Opposition's view, quite inadequate supervision. Yet, somehow the Government is now displaying an extraordinary optimism that we can trust these people, particularly in this very subjective area, to exercise their judgment in some completely impartial and perhaps non-political way. All the evidence we have of these types of secret agencies, both overseas and in this country, does not give us confidence in trusting such organisations. I suggest that we must use the track record, the evidence that we have. 
I do not believe that we can accept the guidelines offered. We are providing inadequate supervision. If we had much wider supervision the Parliament would be capable of giving a greater amount of trust because it could then check on how that trust was being exercised. However, because there is inadequate supervision provided by this Bill, on the evidence I do not believe that we can trust the ASIO agents with the kinds of extensive powers that they are being given in this definition of their functions. I again refer honourable members to the activities of the Central Intelligence Agency and other related secret agencies in the United States. Thenactivities over the last ten or fifteen years have shown that they are not the types of organisations one can trust. The honourable member for Dundas this afternoon asked why we on this side of the House always talk about the CIA and similar agencies; why did we not talk about the KGB. That seemed to me to be simply a piece of partisan rhetoric. I have not bothered to consider the KGB in this debate because I believed that the Committee was debating the role of a secret agency or a security agency in a democratic society. Therefore, the KGB is not relevant to that consideration. However, having listened to this debate all afternoon, I am beginning to suspect that many honourable members on the Government side do not have a very full or clear appreciation of democratic values. Indeed, if one follows through the implications of some of their statements, those doubts must grow. 
I think that is completely irrelevant. What I am arguing for is a little caution about these definitions. I think we should be particularly cautious in relation to hatred. There are three reasons for being cautious about the introduction of hatred as part of the definition of subversion. One is that, in a sense, it is novel in that this is not a proposal - 
Debate interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)-  Order! It being 10.30 p.m., I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
I direct a question to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Why did Australia, in the United Nations last week, support the retention of the Kampuchean seat in the General Assembly by the ousted Pol Pot regime described earlier by the Minister for Foreign Affairs as 'an evil and vicious despotism'? Would not the interests of Australia, the Kampuchean people and the international community have been better served by Australian support for the Indian compromise proposal to leave the Kampuchean bench empty for the time being? 
-I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Bonython moving that this House censures the Government for toleradng within its ranks a Minister against whom there have been findings of a gravity and seriousness unparalleled in Australian political history. 
I move that motion- 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 

 A division having been called and the bells being rungMi Yates-  Mr Speaker,  I raise a point of order. We are now entering our second hour. I draw your attention to Standing Order 86. It states: 
. Should any of these questions be negatived  . . if the  Speaker  or the  Chairman  is of the opinion that it is an abuse of the orders . . . of the House, or is moved for the purpose of obstructing business . . . 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) What was the total cost of an advertisement, headed 'In the National Interest' and signed by the Prime Minister which appeared during the Telecom dispute in July 1 979. 
In which newspapers and on what dates did this advertisement appear. 
Which advertising agency prepared the advertisement and what was the cost of preparation and placement. 
Which Department funded the advertisement. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) How many persons granted temporary entry into Australia for any purpose have been granted permanent resident status while in Australia since 7 June 1978. 
How many were (a) spouses and dependent children of residents in Australia, (b) refugees with valid entry permits, (c) aged parents who would have qualified for admission if they had applied overseas, (d) private overseas students able to meet the criteria for permanent residence in Australia and (e) others. 
How many applications have been received by his Department for change of status since 7 June 1 978. 
-Tonight I wish to discuss that organised hypocrisy, the Liberal Party of Australia. I want to illustrate that remark by reference to its actions as compared with its words on unemployment. During the recent South Australian election we were inundated with advertisements telling us how much the Liberals were concerned with the unemployment problem in South Australia. We have listened to the Minister for Unemployment consistently prate about his band-aid schemes for the young unemployed. However, I think the height of sanctimoniousness was reached by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  on 28 August when he said: 
I am not prepared to sit in this House day after day and be lectured, indeed hectored, by the honourable member for Port Adelaide on the supposed fact that I have no concern for the unemployed, that the policies that are being pursued are nonsense. 
He went on to say that he too loved the unemployed. Let us contrast those words with the actions that are now taking place right round Australia in relation to unemployed youth. In the Budget the various schemes to reduce youth unemployment were severely cut. The Special Youth Employment Training Program was simply gutted, the National Employment and Training Scheme was cut by half and the Community Youth Support Scheme was cut by 14 per cent. 
The people in the electorate of Bonython, where there are some 3,000 young people unemployed, took the Minister at his word and in the last 18 months got under way a whole series of programs under CYSS. In the city of Elizabeth the scheme had been given $47,000; in Salisbury North, $51,000; in Pooraka, $35,000; and in Teatree Gully, $43,000. Local community people got together, set up their committees, worked with a project officer to get this money and in August were all operating on budgets which had been approved for that year. At the beginning of September, without any discussion with the various groups that had been appointed, without any discussion with the committees that ran these schemes, and without any discussion with the project officers, a cut was simply authorised across all the schemes. As a result, $6,000 was taken off the Elizabeth scheme; $1 1,000 was taken off the Salisbury scheme; $2,000 was taken off the Pooraka scheme; and $3,000 was taken off the Teatree Gully scheme. 
In one of the regions where there is the worst youth unemployment in Australia these was a cut of $22,000. This was in an area where the Liberals only a fortnight before had said that unemployment was increasing. This is how we can measure the words of this organised hypocrisy. In one of the worst areas for youth unemployment $20,000 was cut without consultation with any of the people who in the last six months to a year had put a great amount of effort into getting those schemes off the ground. That is not the end of that kind of hypocrisy. The Minister concerned had the hide to send me the following telegram: 
I am very interested in seeing the Community Youth Support Scheme utilised to assist young people looking for work. Therefore I am pleased to advise you that a grant of $39,749. 1 7 has been approved under the Scheme to fund the proposal from Department of Youth, Salisbury, for a period of 39 weeks. 
First of all, that is a lie; it is 52 weeks. He does not like to admit that, in fact, that is the cut. So that it ran - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! I ask the honourable member to withdraw that. 
I withdraw that. That is an incorrect statement. The $39,000 does not cover 39 weeks; it, in fact, covers 52 weeks. Nowhere in that congratulatory epistle does the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  tell me, or any of the other committee members, that that in fact is the cut figure. A budget was approved three months ago and the community groups were working on a budget of $51,000. We are now blessed with this telegram which tells us that we should be happy about the $39,000, with not a single mention that it involves a cut of $1 1,000. 1 believe that the people in my community are not going to accept these decisions. I am prepared to use all forms of resistance in areas such as Bonython to resist the kinds of cuts that are being unilaterally made without discussion with the groups concerned. 
I think that it is a well recognised, if regrettable, fact that the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is given to the utterance of terminological inexactitudes. One could perhaps put it in a mild way and say that he has a tendency glibly to varnish the truth. It has become necessary for us on this side of the House to look specifically at the statements that are being made by this Minister about unemployment in this country and constantly to test them as soon as we can. Yesterday the Minister made a series of statements about unemployment in this country, particularly in relation to the Community Youth Support Scheme. I want to take some of those statements and examine them in the light of the evidence that is available. First of all the Minister said: 
It was on the basis of information that the Government had as to the requirements of those State committees- 
That is the CYSS committees- that the appropriation of $ 10m was made. 
The Minister is arguing that the cut from $ 10.7m to $10m was made on the basis of information that the Government had as to the requirements of the State CYSS committees. I can only say that in the case of South Australia that is nonsense. We can see that it is nonsense by the fact that for the year 1979-80 the CYSS committee in South Australia had already allocated approximately $941,000 to the various 31 projects operating in South Australia. The committee has now been required to cut that allocation by $151,000. There is no evidence whatsoever that the State committee in South Australia believed that it was possible to cut the budget. It in fact had argued for a budget which it is now required to cut back by a further $151,000 after that amount had been promised to the project committees. I would be very interested to find evidence that the Minister is acting on the basis of information from the State CYSS committees. 
We can go even further than that. We know that in South Australia the  chairman  of the CYSS committee wrote to the Minister. The  chairman  claimed that he had written earlier to the Minister expressing the State CYSS committee's concern and objection to the on-off allocation of funds and the detrimental effect this had on the operation of projects. Rather than provide information which would enable a cut to take place, the CYSS committee in South Australia had been advising the Minister of the detrimental effects of the policy that he is now pursuing allegedly on the basis of information received from the State CYSS committees. We then see the Minister's next statement. He said:  . . the overall objective of using this year as one of consolidation in order that the good projects may be maintained and those that are not working so well can be either disbanded or brought down to an appropriate level . . . 
Apparently the cuts were to be made so that the good projects could be consolidated and the others could be disbanded or run down. But again that is nonsense in relation to the situation in South Australia. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Home Affairs. As it is now3 years since the Horton report on public libraries was presented to this Parliament, I ask the Minister Has the Government, in the Minister's own words, formulated any views on this report yet? When will such views be presented to this Parliament? 
-When the debate on the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill 1979 was adjourned some four weeks ago, this chamber was debating the amendment moved by the Opposition that the words 'or hatred' be eliminated from clause 5(1) (c). I said before the adjournment of the debate that there were three reasons for being cautious about the introduction of 'promoting hatred' as part of the definition of 'subversion'. For all those honourable members who have been hanging on my words for four weeks, let me explain what are those three reasons for acting with great caution in allowing the words 'or hatred' to remain as part of the definition of subversion'. At the moment, the definition refers to: activities directed to promoting violence or hatred between different groups of persons in the Australian community so as to endanger the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. 
We propose that the words 'or hatred' be eliminated from that clause. 
First of all, the Government has frequently relied on the authority of  Mr Justice  Hope. It is important to note that  Mr Justice  Hope, in his very comprehensive suggestions for the definition of subversion', did not include in that definition the words 'promoting hatred between different groups of persons in the Australian community'. So, insofar as the Government itself has relied very much on the authority of  Mr Justice  Hope, it is not justified in doing so in this case. In fact,  Mr Justice  Hope went through very carefully the various possibilities of this definition. He certainly made no attempt to include these very dangerous words in the definition. So, that is the first reason for asking the chamber to support the Opposition's amendment. This clause certainly does not have the authority of the man whom the Government has relied on very much in this whole debate about definitions. 
Secondly, the word ' hatred ' is the most subjective and vague of all the words introduced into these definitions. It is possible, for instance, to set up criteria for 'violence' so that one can make a judgment about it, but it is extremely difficult indeed, to set up clear criteria for defining and identifying ' promoting hatred '. ' Hatred ' is much more subjective and much more vague. 
The third reason for asking honourable members to reject this proposal is that by introducing 'hatred' into the definition, one moves the definition of 'subversion' much more clearly into the domestic politics scene than any other of the words used. Basically this is a society which is a pluralist democracy in which there is competition between groups in the society. Sometimes that competition will descend into quite strong verbal conflict, and it is extremely difficult to distinguish that verbal conflict from promoting or inciting hatred. Therefore, all of us and many activists in the community are likely to fall within the definition of subversion ' in the ordinary spirited political debate that takes place in this society. For that reason- the third reason- one cautions against introducing into this definition words which subject much of the active and vigorous political debate in the society to the intervention of ASIO. Thus this House should support the Opposition amendment because inciting hatred between groups is very difficult to define; secondly,  Mr Justice  Hope has not recommended this in the definition; and thirdly, it strikes at the heart of the conflicted political system that we have. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Lionel Bowen's  amendment) stand part of the clause. 
-Clause 8 of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill has become in effect one of the most important clauses of the Bill primarily because of the failure of the Government to provide other forms of control over the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. If I may posit the position of the Opposition, it was in fact to offer a multi-faceted pattern of control for ASIO involving the Parliament, the judiciary and a principle of judicial audit. In the bipartisan approach of the Government all of those proposals for control have been rejected. Therefore the one essential control mechanism provided in the Bill is the control of the Executive over the Organisation. That is dealt with in principle in these clauses. It is because of this failure to use other methods to control this Organisation that clause 8 becomes so important. 
As I said, the principle involved is a difficult one because quite clearly the Government is fearful that one could have what I referred to earlier as the Nixon syndrome. That is, in a sense if the Executive is given too direct and specific a control, then it may be found that ASIO is abused for political purposes, as were the secret agencies of government in the United States. I fear that in clause 8 the Government has been too fearful of that abuse and has rather neglected the other great danger of security organisations or such organisations as ASIO. That is what I call the Hoover problem. The Hoover problem is the creation of an independent agency which is too independent of the democratic authorities in society. It is my view that the way in which clause 8 has been phrased opens up this society to the danger that ASIO will effectively escape democratic control. I would not worry so much about that if we had some form of effective parliamentary control. I would not worry so much about that if we had some effective involvement in the judiciary in the control of ASIO. As we have neither of those things this clause becomes very critical. 
Paragraphs (a) and (b) of clause 8 (2) are in fact aiming to limit the specific power of the Minister to give directions in questions which relate to the collection and dissemination of information on particular individuals. In formulating its amendments the Opposition has gone along with those paragraphs of the Bill because we accept a necessity to prevent political interference in ASIO as it relates to specific individuals. Our amendment tries to strengthen effective democratic control first of all by inserting a general access provision in the form of proposed sub-clause (3). What the Opposition is trying to do is to give to the democratically elected Executive general access to the information of ASIO, subject to the limitations about specific individuals. 
I believe that one of the great battles about  Senator Murphy  concerned the fact that this point was not clear. We believe it is necessary to make it clear by stating quite clearly the authority of the democratically elected Executive to have access to the information provided by ASIO with the specific exceptions listed in the Bill and in our own provision. That will solve the kind of debate or brawl that took place because that access provision was never clear in the Act as it stands. For that reason we have suggested a general right of access, subject to those limitations. 
Our addition in proposed sub-clause (4) of clause 8 aims to deal again with the right of the Government to know whom files are being held on; not the details of the files. We accept the point made elsewhere and the point made previously by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in his second reading speech that it is not desirable that the political Executive be able to have access to the detailed information about persons and individuals in the files. We insist that it needs to be specified in the Bill that the Government has the right to know on which individuals files are being held. Unless that is done, Ministers of the Crown and their colleagues, leading figures either in Government or Opposition, might be subjected to ASIO's surveillance without the knowledge of any member of the democratically elected Executive. We believe that that provision should be spelt out. That is our reason for proposing the fourth amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I ask members on both sides of the Committee to take this clause very seriously because it remains the only major clause which allows some form of democratic control through the Executive over ASIO operations. 
I rise again to speak briefly simply because of the inanities introduced into this debate by the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock).  If that is the best defence that the Government can produce on this clause, there is certainly not much to be said for the clause. Let me take the two major points made by the honourable member for Dundas. I will take the last point first, that is, the quotation from the speech by  Senator Evans.  I am sure that the honourable member for Dundas knows quite well that that quotation was not about the whole of clause 8. It was about one specific aspect of clause 8. Secondly, like all good Labor men,  Senator Evans  expressed amazement that for once on one particular aspect of clause 8 the Government could act more liberally in relation to the Hope report. It was a unique event. Therefore, it deserved some celebration. But it related to one specific part of clause 8. If the honourable member for Dundas had read the speech of  Senator Evans  in the other place in relation to clause 8 he would have seen a fairly thorough critique of clause 8 dealing quite firmly with clause 8 (2) (c) and arguing for its elimination as well as supporting the ways in which clause 8 could be improved. 
The second major point, if it can be called that, raised by the honourable member for Dundas was based on a quotation from  Dr Evatt  which I believe was quoted by  Senator Durack. Dr Evatt  said: 
I do not believe that the people of Australia would approve of an organization like this unless it were perfectly clear that there was, at any rate, a political officer responsible for it, in a general way, to the Parliament and the people. 
He emphasised the words 'in a general way'. This is the very point that the Opposition is making. We have accepted paragraphs (a) and (b) of clause 8 (2) because they relate to specific individuals. But paragraph (c) of clause 8 (2) brings us into the general sphere. We are arguing that those opinions about the nature of advice to be given by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to a Minister, a department or authority of the Commonwealth, are matters of general moment as distinct from - 
It is the argument that we have made in the amendment that we are debating and it is the argument that I have previously made. If the honourable member for Dundas bothers to read our amendment, he will see that we have accepted paragraphs (a) and (b) of clause 8 (2) because they relate to specific individuals. But paragraph (c) opens up the issue in a general way. Our objection to this provision is for the very reason why the honourable member for Dundas quoted  Dr Evatt:  In a general way, we need to have effective political authority. We object to clause 8 (2) (c) because it does deal with general problems and general advice. 
I do not wish to speak at any length on the amendment to clause 8 of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill as I have had an earlier opportunity to make my argument in relation to it. In order to try to secure a more precise and refined answer from the Minister to these specific problems, I wonder whether I could address to the Minister two precise questions which he might care to answer specifically or explicitly in his summing up. Firstly, why is the Government not prepared to give the Minister a general right of access to Australian Security Intelligence Organisation information, subject to the exclusions already set out in clause 8; that is, subject to all those exclusions that have already been passed under clause 8? Secondly, I ask a specific question because I am not clear from the Minister's earlier remarks what the answer to it is. If the Minister responsible requested of the DirectorGeneral whether a file, dossier or record were held on a member of this Parliament would the Minister under the provisions of this Bill be informed of the existence or otherwise of such a file, dossier or record? If the answer is no, how does the Minister justify in a so-called democratic society the denial of such information not to the Parliament but to the elected Executive? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
Has the Australian Government entered into any specific trade agreements with ASEAN, if so, what is the nature of the agreements. 
Have either the Australian Government or the ASEAN states expressed any interest in establishing a formal framework for the mutual economic advancement of both parties. 
Do formal agreements exist between the EEC and ASEAN; if so, what is the nature of the agreements. 
Is he able to say what is the purpose of the ASEANEEC Conferences on Industrial Co-operation. 
Has either the Australian Government or the ASEAN states expressed any interest in a similar ASEAN-Australian conference to facilitate industrial co-operation. 
I would like to speak to the Opposition's amendment (16) and to relate this amendment to amendment (24) to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill which, unfortunately, was guillotined, giving us no chance to discuss it. It is important for the Committee to realise that, for all practical purposes, once this package of Bills has passed from this House, the House virtually has washed its hands of ASIO. For instance, it is quite clear that questions about ASIO will not be answered. Secondly, there is no annual report to Parliament by ASIO, so there can be no check through that means. There is no effective parliamentary audit of ASIO and, in the Opposition's view, we have ineffective ministerial control of ASIO. We are in the paradoxical position where Parliament has no effective control in relation to 
ASIO, yet ASIO is empowered to investigate individual members of Parliament. 
As a result of this Bill we are in the extraordinary position where honourable members of this House may be examined by an organisation over which, for all practical purposes, this House has no effective supervision. This is why we are proposing an annual report to the Parliament, both in the ASIO Bill and also in the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill, in relation simply to warrants involved with telephone tapping in this Bill and to listening devices in the ASIO Bill. I want really to ask all honourable members on the Government side, particularly those honourable members who outside the House posture as defenders of civil liberties, what is wrong with having an annual report on the issue of telephone tapping and listening devices. I give due credit to the honourable members opposite I have had my doubts during this debate, particularly in regard to some of the remarks made by honourable members opposite, but I do give them credit- in believing that none of them believe that telephone tapping and listening devices are desirable things in this society even though sometimes they may be necessary.If it is an undesirable feature of our society it is very important that the Parliament retain some oversight of the development of that cancer in our society. 
All that we are asking in this report is that each year the Parliament be told the number of warrants issued in relation to wire taps and in relation to listening devices and be given some details in that regard. I do not believe that anyone who honestly says that he is concerned with civil liberties can object to that. It in no way endangers the security operation. We are simply asking that this Parliament be told the extent of this development in our society. It in no way threatens any particular security operation. It in no way affects any Customs operation in toto because we are asking just for general fig toto beures. Unless this Parliament gets that information there is a real danger that year after year this cancer will creep through our society without this Parliament having any effective supervision. I would hope that all honourable members opposite who talk about civil liberties will support this particular amendment proposed by the Opposition. 
-The package of Bills that we are discussing tonight has four objectives. The first objective is to plug a number of gaps and anomalies in the social welfare provision in this country. The Opposition welcomes most of these efforts at greater consistency and the effort to make more comprehensive and solid the protective social welfare framework. We note, however, as one of the ironies of politics, firstly, that changes always produce new anomalies and, secondly, that the plugging of certain gaps in the existing framework merely highlights some of the remaining gaps in that framework. The second objective of these Bills is to reintroduce twice-yearly indexation of pensions and benefits. As the Government's rather contemptible handling of this issue over the past year makes it a quite revealing saga, it deserves separate attention, as I am sure the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  would agree. Thirdly, the package of Bills aims to continue and reinforce the Government's treatment of the unemployed, not merely as second-class citizens but as second-class welfare recipients. Fourthly, the Bills aim to extend the Service pension to veterans of allied countries. As this is an extremely complex issue, the ramifications of which the responsible Minister quite certainly does not comprehend and is deserving of quite separate treatment, I will reserve my remarks on this point to a later debate. 
The first objective of these measures is to plug a number of gaps and anomalies in the social welfare provision in this country. First of all, there is a rise in the income limits for pensioner fringe benefits. Secondly, there is an extension of health and pharmaceutical benefit provisions to supporting parents. Thirdly, there is more generous provision for the wife's pension. Fourthly, there is payment of the family allowance on a daily basis for a child moving between parents and an institution or between one person and another. Fifthly, there is a continuation of the payment of the handicapped allowance to parents or those usually responsible for the care of the child when the child is temporarily in an institution. Sixthly, there is a revision of the maintenance provisions for pensioners in benevolent homes. Seventhly, there is clarification of the payment of the double orphan's pension with reference to children adopted under the law of another country. Lastly, there are powers to recover sickness benefit payments once compensation has been received for the same incapacity for which sickness benefits were previously paid. 
As I said before, the Opposition welcomes most of these changes. Indeed we have long campaigned for a rise in the income limits for pensioner fringe benefits. If I may refer to the Australian Labor Party  Platform, Constitution and Rules  booklet, which of course is frequently quoted by honourable members on the opposite side, it reads: 
Labor will update the income tests for social security payments and fringe benefits in line with inflation. 
So we have long campaigned for that. Secondly, we have advocated the extension of the health benefit card to supporting parents, and this is a campaign which we have conducted throughout the history of this Parliament. Thirdly, my colleagues, particularly the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and  Senator Bishop,  played a key role in drawing the attention of the responsible Minister to anomalies in specific cases arising from the monthly payments of family allowances. 
However, I do not need to dwell on the virtues of this legislation. I have no desire to deprive Government members of one of those very rare opportunities to extol the generosity of this penny-pinching Government- a government whose penny-pinching almost always has been at the expense of underprivileged Australians. It should be noted, of course, that even some of these anomaly corrections are designed to save money. We think the financial savings implicit in Division 3A of the Social Services Amendment Bill, which relates to compensation and sickness benefits, is a sensible and reasonable amendment. Nor do we have objections to the possible savings deriving from tightening the provisions relating to the double orphan's pension. On the other hand I think that the new maintenance provisions for pensioners in benevolent homes, given the very small numbers involved, seems peculiarly parsimonious. To insist that a newly admitted pensioner entering a benevolent home may keep only $7.95 a week from the pension while a pensioner already resident in the very same home and on the same pension can keep $18.75 is anomalous, discriminatory, unworkable and will lead to bitterness and dissatisfaction. 
I am speaking of the comparison in these very few benevolent homes. It seems an extraordinarily parsimonious decision - 
Well, you just have a look and see the discrimination that exists. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member for Bonython will address the House through the Chair. 
-This is but one clear example of either new anomalies created or old anomalies highlighted by this legislation. Let me mention some further anomalies highlighted by this legislation which suggest either government neglect or deliberate discrimination or, in respect of the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  simply ignorance. We welcome the extension of fringe benefits to more old age pensioners and supporting parents. But what of those unemployment beneficiaries who are denied both health and pharmaceutical concessions? What of those on sickness benefits denied health and pharmaceutical concessions? What of the special benefit people- among the most deprived in the community- who are also denied health and pharmaceutical concessions? It has already been admitted by the Department of Social Security that there are no administrative difficulties in correcting these anomalies that 
I have just listed, nor should the cost be exaggerated given the operation, albeit rather unsatisfactory, of the disadvantaged persons provisions in the health legislation. 
Again, the changes that have been made highlight the fact that not since the Whitlam Government has the supplementary allowance been increased. If provision had been made for inflation this allowance would now stand at $8 a week rather than at the $5 a week originally set by the Whitlam Government in 1975. Again, not since the Whitlam Government has the pensioner children's allowance been increased. If this payment had kept pace with the cost of living, it would now stand at $ 12 a week rather than at $7.50 a week originally set by the Whitlam Government in 1975. 
Thus, with reference to its first objective, that is, the first objective of this package of Bills which the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  pointed out are the objectives- the correction of anomalies- the Government has been too timid and too cautious. With only minimal administrative changes and relatively small expenditure increases, a much more comprehensive welfare floor could have been provided. As it is, it is through the holes that remain that some of the most disadvantaged Australians fall. 
Let me look at the second objective, that is, the restoration of twice-yearly indexation of pensions. The Opposition naturally welcomes this restoration. Indeed, on every possible occasion during the past 15 months the Opposition has voted unanimously for the restoration of twiceyearly indexation. But this reintroduction of twice-yearly indexation compels us to examine the quite discreditable record of the Government on this question. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his policy speech of 1977 promised: 
We have taken politics out of pension increases by linking them automatically with the consumer price index. 
Given this Prime Minister, of course, that perhaps is not quite sufficient. But he did say nine months previously in March 1977: 
We are committed to take politics out of pensions by providing increases in line with price rises twice a year. 
That is certainly a more explicit commitment. Again, during the election in December 1977, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said in an advertisement publicised throughout this country: 
We believe that to maintain the purchasing power of pensions and benefits is important. We said that we would do that and we've done it and I believe that this is one of the things that has been most thankfully received by those people who do receive them. I've had lots of people say to me 'You've given us dignity because you don't argue about rises every six months '. 
Yet in the very first Budget after these clear pledges were made, the Government simply removed twice-yearly indexation and took away the pensioners' dignity by arguing again about rises every six months. 
It is important, I think, to ask ourselves what excuses were advanced by the Government for this quite blatant repudiation of precise and apparently unequivocal pledges. 
-No, even better than that, the excuse was the Government's success on the inflation front. The Minister for Social Security said: 
The decision to index pensions annually was taken in the light of the anticipated reduction in the rate of inflation and in the belief that with a level of inflation of something like S per cent or lower an annual increase is appropriate. 
Thus, on the Minister's own reasoning, the decision this year to restore twice-yearly indexation is a confession of failure on the inflation front. The Government did not get anywhere near the 5 per cent figure, let alone lower, that the Minister talked about regarding inflation. Thus, on the Minister's own reasoning, this utter failure on the inflation front compelled the restoration of twice-yearly indexation. But I do not think failure on the inflation front was the only reason for the reversal. The second reason was simply that 1980 is an election year- and this decision on twice-yearly indexation produces no effective increase until May 1980. Nothing so concentrates this Government's mind as the thought of an election. We are thus returning to the quite opportunistic days prior to the Whitlam Government, when it was only in an election year that pensioners could expect an increase in their pensions. But however discreditable the Government's record on the issue, we do welcome the restoration of twice-yearly indexation. We say simply that it should never have been abolished. 
The third and most contemptible of the objectives of these Bills is the further development of this Government's policy of treating the unemployed not merely as second class citizens, but as second class welfare recipients. The dole bludger epithet may now be rejected in Government rhetoric, but the dole bludger syndrome is alive and active in the reality of this Government's social welfare policies. Let me just prove that point. First of all, unemployed persons without dependants- some 78 per cent of all unemployment beneficiaries- have not received any adjustment in their benefit for the past 18 months, and apparently will receive none in the next 12 months. If they had received these adjustments, as has practically every other welfare beneficiary, their benefit in November would be some $7 a week more. Secondly, the young unemployed under 18 years of age are given in these measures no rise in their benefit, which is a mere $36 a week, and which has remained unchanged since April 1975. In that period it has lost 60 per cent of its value. 
Thirdly, the permissible income that the unemployed can receive remains at $6 a week. This again discriminates against the unemployed as compared with nearly all other categories of welfare recipients. Again, the unemployed are denied the supplementary rent allowance, and despite the widening of fringe benefits in these Bills, those fringe benefits are not extended to the unemployed. No justification is offered for this discrimination against the unemployed and none can be offered. It stems from the Government's refusal to recognise in anything but rhetoric that we have, in today's unemployment, the most serious social problem that this country has faced since the Second World War. 
But these Bills do more than simply tolerate the existing welfare discrimination against the unemployed. They seek to make even more rigorous the conditions under which unemployment benefits will be made available. Under clause 4 1 of the Social Services Amendment Bill that we are discussing, the postponement of payment of unemployment benefits provisions is tightened. In future, anyone whose unemployment is defined to be as a result of voluntary action or deriving from his or her misconduct as a worker, or resulting from his or her failure to accept suitable work will, in mandatory terms, have to wait at least six weeks and possibly up to 12 weeks before being paid unemployment benefit. Thus, for instance, a girl who may voluntarily give up her job because she finds her boss's attitude offensive, or a worker dismissed by his employer, allegedly for misconduct, or someone who refuses to accept what the Department deems to be suitable work can, if single, in effect be fined at least $347.40 and up to a maximum of $694.80; and if married, be subject to a minimum fine of $579 and a maximum of $1,158. Those are quite extraordinary fines and quite inappropriate penalties in relation to social wen.l fare measures. They are much more severe, for instance, then the fines usually imposed for drunken driving in this country. The decisions on which those fines are based and which have quite severe consequences, are dependent on discretionary and extremely subjective judgments, often by junior officials of the Department. The prevailing discretionary postponements that operate already reveal great discrepancies in their application from State to State. The only logic or consistency that these proposals possess is that they are consistent with the Government's revealed antipathy to the unemployed. 
Finally, the Government seeks to further use social welfare as an instrument in industrial warfare. I would be very interested to know whether the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  supports that use of welfare provisions. In the past, unionists actually on strike have been denied unemployment benefits. The amendments to the Social Services Act seek to extend this denial to any unionist, belonging to the same union as the striking union, who may be stood down as a result of the strike. This denial is quite irrespective of the fact that the unionist may be in another establishment, may be in another State, may be ignorant of the strike and may even be opposed to the strike. I believe that this quite savage welfare punishment of unionists as the result of the industrial action of fellow unionists is wrong in principle. It is quite inappropriate to use social welfare provisions in this way. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  quoted a whole number of Liberals who equally disagree with this proposal and a whole series of Press comments from newspapers which have no love for us but which also disagree with the proposal. I just wish to make one quote from the  Age  newspaper, which referred to this problem when it arose two years ago. I think it stated the principle very clearlyand I hope that honourable members opposite will agree with the principle- when it said: 
Unemployment benefits should be regarded as a right for those people jobless through no fault of their own. They are not a privilege and they most certainly are not a plaything for politicians. 
Let me say in conclusion that just as this Government's whole policy towards the unemployed is beginning to tear this society apart, so provisions such as these will contribute directly to the growing and tragic polarisation of this society. 
I wish to speak against clause 41 which is one of three or four clauses in this Bill which are aimed at making the securing of unemployment benefit more difficult. We have the extraordinary position that, as jobs per worker become fewer in this society, this Government makes it more difficult for those unemployed to secure unemployment benefit. Indeed, one could say that this practice runs contrary to the practice of practically every country in the civilised world where, as unemployment has grown, governments have become more generous and more supportive of the problems of the unemployed. 
Clause 41 amends section 120 of the Principal Act. At the moment, section 120 provides the Director-General with two discretionary powers. One is the discretionary power to judge whether a person has left work voluntarily without good or sufficient reason; whether a person has left work due to his own misconduct or has lost his job due to his own misconduct; or whether a person, without good or sufficient reason, has failed to accept an offer of employment. In those three cases, the Director-General has discretionary power to judge a person in relation to the payment of unemployment benefit. That discretion is already an extremely difficult one to operate fairly. If one looks at the figures from State to State, it is obvious that there are clear differences in operation in quite an arbitrary way between States. In some States this discretion is being used generously while in other States it is being used in a very tight fashion indeed. It raised the very problems that my colleague the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has just referred to; the difficulty, for instance, of a young girl who feels that she cannot go on in a particular job and voluntarily leaves that job, but who then has the extremely difficult problem of proving the reasons for her voluntary abdication from that employment. Others may leave a job for what they see as good and sufficient reasons, but the reasons are not good and sufficient in the eyes of the bureaucratic judges. Indeed, often these bureaucrats are relatively young members of the trade; often they have very little experience. So that discretionary power is already a dangerous one. It is already operating in this society in a particularly arbitrary way. 
The other discretion, and a more generous one in some ways, leaves the Director-General with the power to determine for what period the unemployment benefit will be denied. In this Bill, the Government- determined to punish people such as these- has made it mandatory that if the Director-General or his agent makes a judgment in any of the cases referred to, then the person will be denied the unemployment benefit for at least six weeks- it must be six weeks; the Director-General will have no discretion- and up to 12 weeks. It is true that over the period from six to twelve weeks, the Director-General will have some discretion. Thus as the employment situation gets tighter in the society, so this Government pursues a policy of making eligibility for the unemployment benefits tighter in relation to this set of situations. 
The effect of this is to impose quite drastic fines on people. One can see the denial of the unemployment benefit for this period as, in fact, a fine imposed on the person for leaving a job or for particular misconduct in a job or for not accepting a job offered by the Commonwealth Employment Service. The fines are substantial. For instance, the minimum fine for a single person is $347.40- that is, the amount of the six weeks benefit denied. The maximum fine for single person, if denied the unemployment benefit for 12 weeks, is $694.80. If the person concerned is married the fine becomes even more severe. For any judgments made in this field, fines for married people would range from $579 for a sixweek period to $1,158 for the maximum period. That kind of fine is a more substantial fine than a fine imposed in most courts of law for quite a serious offence. For instance, a whole series of dangerous and drunken driving offences will not incur fines of that order. Because people refuse to go on working for a particular employer often for what they see as very good reasons, although they cannot convince the Department of their merit, these kinds of fines are imposed upon them. 
Opposition members argue very strongly against a provision which is already severe and which is now made worse by the six weeks period being made mandatory. While the original judgment remains discretionary, an adverse decision automatically imposes a six week postponement, and possibly at the discretion of the DirectorGeneral a 12 weeks penalty. Therefore this amendment imposes major fines on these groups of unemployed. We find this kind of attitude totally unacceptable in a situation in which the number of jobs per worker is declining. One might take quite different views if there were a relatively healthy employment situation in this society, but under this Government the unemployment situation has got worse year after year. Despite all the hollow promises it will get worse next year. Yet, these are the kinds of punishments and fines being strengthened and toughened, not just in this provision but in two or three provisions of this Bill. It will be tougher and harder for the unemployed, for the people who have to bear the real burden of this Government 's economic policies. The contemptible Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  gets up in this House and says that we have to have more unemployed for the next 12 months in order to solve the problems of this economy. 
That is what the Treasurer and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  seem to be arguing. If that is so, then the Government is bounden to do something about the unemployed who are suffering as a direct result of their avowed policy. Yet, the Government is making it more and more difficult for the unemployed to get the necessary benefits in an era of very high unemployment, a condition which the Government accepts as a necessary part of its own policy. I do not really believe that the people of Australia and the members on both sides of this House should go on accepting those kinds of attitudes. We may disagree about how the economic problem in this country will be solved but, surely, if Government members argue that it is to be solved by a long period of increasing unemployment then they have real, humanitarian responsibilities to the unemployed, responsibilities which are denied by the provisions of this Act. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  I refer to page 2262 of  Hansard  of 18 October 1979. His remarks were: 
As I listened to the honourable member for Bonython  . . all his diatribe and innuendo, and his ready admission that he had not even read the Bill, let alone understood it . . . 
I make no reference whatsoever to the vituperation, but the misrepresentation occurs in the phrase:  his ready admission that he had not even read the Bill, let alone understood it . . . 
I made no admission, ready or otherwise, that I had not read the Bill. I made no admission, ready or otherwise, that I had not understood it. I had certainly read the Bill and it is not my practice to suggest to the House that I am familiar with material which I have not read. As to whether I understood the Bill, of course, that must be left to other people to decide. But I am perfectly happy for those honourable members of this House who can exercise an impartial and detached judgment to read my speech and the speech of the honourable member for Darling Downs and judge who had or who had not read the Bill and who had or who had not understood the Bill. 
-The Overseas Students Charge Bill bears all the hallmarks of another of those ill thought out - 
Motion (by  Mr Hodges)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-My question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce relates to a speech by the Managing Director of General MotorsHolden's Ltd,  Mr Chapman,  last Monday in which he warned that participation by GMH in future world car plans was dependent on the Government's increasing the incentives available under the export facilitation scheme and that his company understood from its discussions with the Government that ' further percentage increases were on the way'. Has the Government, in fact, given any such undertaking to GMH? If so, will the Minister explain why this has happened, when the Government has made no public announcement of any decision on the Industries Assistance Commission's final report on this matter? If no such undertaking has yet been given to GMH, does the Government intend to acquiesce in such blatant industrial blackmail by acceding to GMH 's request? 
I want to take the opportunity provided by this debate to comment on the experiment that we have conducted with the Estimates committees. It is clear that there are very differing views in this House about the success of those committees, but I think there are certain advantages which are indisputable. First of all there is no doubt that they are much more successful as an informationgathering process than the procedures for debating the Estimates which were followed in previous years. One needs only to compare the amount of information dredged out of Ministers in last year's Estimates debates with the information that has been secured from Ministers and public servants this year. There can be no doubt that in relation to information-gathering the Estimates committee system is a far more successful procedure. I hope that the benefits of that information gathering will be seen not just in this very limited debate- I want to say something more about that in a moment- but in the course of a whole year. 
Secondly, the Estimates committees have enabled a relatively structured discussion between the back bench members of this Parliament and the political and bureaucratic executives. It is very difficult to think of any other opportunity that is provided in the general business of this House for such a discussion to take place. As a result of this kind of interchange in these committees we have also had more opportunities for adequate answers than are provided by what has become a parody, that is, Question Time. I think the fact that supplementary questions are possible in the Estimates committees and the fact that the advisers are on hand ensure a more effective questioning procedure than we have in Question Time in the House. We therefore get a more effective means of cross-examination than any other provided in the House. The honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  noted the other night that we all need to improve our techniques of questioning in these situations. No doubt we also need to impose on ourselves some greater self-discipline, but that is part of the learning process of adapting ourselves to new institutions. 
I think too the system has enabled us to make judgments about the Ministers and about civil servants, which is an essential responsibility of all members of this House. One of the roles of members of parliament in a democracy is to make continuous judgments about the Executive. These Estimates committees have certainly contributed to my ability to make judgments about the Ministers and their advisers. As the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  noted, it may well be that as a result of the inter-action which has been provided by these committees, we will have a more effective and sensitive government in the coming year. 
However, it is important that those of us who have supported these reforms and who have been enthusiastic about the experiment should note that considerable criticisms of the Estimates committees have been voiced by members of this House. Firstly, I think it is important to recognise whether these criticisms are fundamentalwhether they are inherent in the nature of the Estimates committees system- or whether they are contingent, that is, deriving from the rather inauspicious circumstances under which the committees were set up. It is true that there is a nostalgia for the good old days- for the days before Estimates committees. I am afraid that on both sides of this House there is a suspicion of institutional innovation. I do not think that is peculiarly distinctive to the conservative side of the House. Secondly, as one would expect, there are clearly differing talents amongst the members of this House. Of course, committee procedures do not always suit some types of talents, just as the procedures of the House satisfy other types of talents. The rumbustious political orator is not well suited to the nature of Estimates committee work. The demagogue who has a mania for publicity is also not particularly suited to committee procedures. Such committees do not provide great opportunities for political stunts. Given these differing qualities, we can expect some criticism because of the particular types of opportunities that different institutional procedures offer different people. 
Despite these qualifications the general point can be made that the development by the legislature of better information-seeking procedures is simply inevitable. It is an inevitable feature of twentieth century societies. Information has nowadays become power and in the highly bureaucratic societies in which we exist the legislature must seek to challenge the bureaucratic monopoly of information. The Estimates committee system properly developed provides one way of doing this. One of the weaknesses of this legislature, and particularly of course of this House, is that by comparison with many other legislatures it has been tardy in the development of adequate and effective information-gathering procedures. 
Another objection to the Estimates committees is that they detract from the House of Representatives itself, interfering with the business in the House, distracting from the representative function and downgrading the representative chamber. A part answer to that criticism is that the Estimates committees are simply an extension of the House of Representatives. They are governed by the same rules, subject to privilege, open to the public, recorded in  Hansard  and of a partisan composition similar to the House as a whole. A related and important objection is that the Estimates committees de-politicise our activities, minimising the critical attacking political function that is an essential part of the democratic system of government. There is no doubt that the Estimates committees de-politicise activity. They are not conducive to vigorous and uninhibited political debate in the same way as this House. But perhaps it is desirable that there be a whole range of functions within this legislature and we may not desire that every procedure that takes place in this Parliament should be characterised by the adversary style of political debate. 
I think many of the criticisms that have been launched against the Estimates committees derive from the rather unfortunate circumstances in which the experiment was introduced. Firstly, the experiment was evolved in a partisan fashion and not as I believe reform in this chamber should evolve, that is, as the result of bipartisan consultation. I think if it had resulted from bipartisan consultation the issue of de-politicisation, which affects the Opposition much more than it affects the Government, would have been given greater consideration and more care would have been taken to see that the Estimates committees were designed not to limit some of the political activities which are essential to the Estimates debates. Secondly, the experiment was introduced by a government which was prepared to tolerate, and even to accommodate, Estimates committees but which was quite unprepared to make any real sacrifices for them. For example, it was clear from the outset that the provision of Estimates committees was in no way to be permitted to jeopardise the legislative program of the Government. Many of the time-tabling difficulties complained of by members derive from that fact. Thirdly, the experiment was introduced one month after the presentation of the Budget and was never able adequately to cope with this delay. Failures in preparation and the totally inadequate time in the House for consideration of the Estimates committees reports stemmed from this belated introduction. In my view we could have had a much more effective Estimates debate if we had been given adequate time in the House to use the information received in the Estimates committees. I believe that that would have been possible if the Estimates committees had been set up earlier and not one month into the debate on the Appropriation Bills. 
I wish to suggest four reforms that we might consider in relation to these committees in the coming year. I suggest firstly that the Estimates committees should be set up co-incident with the presentation of the Budget; secondly, that the appropriate material for committee members should be provided when the committees are established; thirdly, that the committees begin to meet two weeks after the presentation of the Budget and that their meeting times coincide with the debate on the Appropriation Bills in the 
House- that will overcome some of the timetabling difficulties; and fourthly, that there be a far more generous provision of time to consider the reports of the Estimates committees in the House as a whole. This will enable the effective political utilisation of the material gathered and will counter the charges that the experiment depoliticises the business of the House and undermines its representative functions. Finally, and this is a general consideration, we are a Parliament of very limited resources- limited in parliamentary personnel, limited in staff resources, and limited in physical resources. We might well think, in fact, of combining Estimates committees. Joint Estimates committees involving both the House and the Senate might represent a far more effective utilisation of limited resources and prevent some of the duplication that now occurs. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
What is the purpose of the Project Australia Campaign. 
What was the cost to the Commonwealth of this campaign for 1978-79 and what is the anticipated cost to the Commonwealth of the campaign for 1979-80. 
What is the anticipated total cost of the campaign. 
Will the campaign run for longer than 12 months. 
Who is administering the project. 
Which advertising agency or agencies, and public relations firms are responsible for developing the campaign. 
What fees did they charge for all work undertaken in connection with the campaign. 
I refer the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to the letter written by the Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs to the head of his Department,  Mr M.  A. Besley, on 23 June 1978, which letter has already been referred to. Did the letter say that there was a narrow career structure in the Narcotics Bureau, that Bureau officers were insufficiently experienced, that there was too little regional autonomy, that there were avoidable man management problems, that Sydney Harbour was wide open to drug importation and that problems posed by containers had not been faced up to? Why was it that six months later  Mr Besley,  under cross-examination before the Royal Commission, indicated that nothing had been done in these matters? Why did the Minister fail to act 1 8 months ago? 
-I support the motion of censure because I believe that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  has, in fact, failed in his responsibility to this Parliament and, through the Parliament, to the people of Australia. I stress that he has failed in his responsibility to Parliament because the failures I will discuss relate not just to the Opposition but to information provided to all members of this House. It is important if ministerial responsibility is to mean anything that we as a parliament, not just one side of it, should consider whether Ministers are performing their duties. 
I know it is easy to use the word 'responsibility' in a rhetorical way. I want to show quite clearly what I mean when I say that the Minister has failed in his responsibility to this House. 
First, we would all accept, I believe, that the Minister is responsible to this House for the work and actions of his Department and for the major agencies within that Department. We would all accept that this House has the power of sanction for ministerial failure in those responsibilities; that is, it has the power of censure and the power of compelling his resignation. Of course, we would not want to say that he should be responsible for every minor action or misbehaviour by his Department. True, when we talk about the Narcotics Bureau there is a lot of minor misbehaviour and minor actions. We certainly would not want to make an issue of censure of minor misbehaviour by lesser civil servants. Nor do we want to say that the Minister is responsible in the sense that he could be censured for every action made by a bureaucrat in his Department, even though, in this case, a fairly notorious figure is involved who has been peculiarly active as a departmental chief. Next, I would not argue that the Minister should be responsible- though this is more debatable- for errors arising from deliberate disobedience by his departmental subordinates. That is not being alleged in this case. But a 
Minister is responsible for the general maladministration of a department or of a major segment of a department. A Minister is responsible for those departmental faults and flaws which could have been avoided if he had exercised a reasonable diligence and a proper oversight. 
This is the issue that confronts us in the case of the Federal Narcotics Bureau and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. The interim report of the Williams Royal Commission is an appalling indictment of the failure of the Minister effectively to oversee the Narcotics Bureau and to exercise a reasonable diligence towards that Bureau and the activities and behaviour for which he is responsible to this Parliament. If responsibility is to mean anything- it may be that Government members do not care about ministerial responsibility- it should be asserted clearly in this case. 
Let us look at what the Williams report is saying about this Bureau. It details a series of major aspects of sheer maladministration over at least a two-year period. I sometimes think the Minister wants to shift the blame further back, and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  may be prepared to accept pare of the blame, as the Minister responsible in an earlier period. The report states that the Bureau is inefficient. It states: 
The Narcotics Bureau is not a highly efficient enforcement agency. 
To make the point quite clear, I quote again from the report. It states: 
Within the judicial system, generally speaking, the Narcotics Bureau's reputation for efficiency is lower than that of State police forces. 
Comparatively, it has a low efficiency rating. Secondly, it is argued by the Williams Commission that it is over-centralised and poorly led. On this point the Commission's report states: 
Too much centralised control impairs the bureau's operational efficiency. In this, the use of the Public Service structure for a police agency and lack of effective leadership are principally to blame. 
Those are the very points which the Opposition advanced in 1975 against this form of drug enforcement agency. Again, the report clearly says that the Bureau is obsessed with its image rather than with its task of drug enforcement. I quote again from the report, which states: 
The Bureau spends too much time defending itself and its image . . . 
The Narcotics Bureau has traded upon a flattering media image but has maintained great secrecy upon matters which might conceivably tarnish that image . . . 
Some of the largest seizures in recent years attributed in the media to the Narcotics Bureau have in fact occurred without any real assistance from the Narcotics Bureau. 
Fourthly, the Bureau is distrusted by other law enforcement agencies. Again, the good judge says- this has never been challenged; apparently there is a volume of evidence to support this point; indeed, the Government accepted the report fairly quickly. The report stated: 
There is considerable and increasing distrust of the Narcotics Bureau among other law enforcement bodies. For some years past relationships between the Narcotics Bureau and COMPOL, especially at the top levels, have been bad but now relationships between the Narcotics Bureau and State police are bad in many places. 
Fifthly, the morale of the Bureau is poor. On this point the report states: 
The Narcotics Bureau is not a cohesive force with high morale and pride in its accomplishments. There is considerable frustration and bitterness among many Narcotics Bureau officers whom the Commission regards as dedicated and keen agents. 
Its achievements- the very things that it was set up to do- are regarded by the Commission as disappointing. On this point the report states: 
The Bureau's recent seizure figures reflect failure in its declared aim of detecting major traffickers, especially in heroin, and leaving lesser operations to the attention of State police. 
The report then states that the Bureau's agents are inadequately trained. 
Anyone looking at this as a departmental report would say that it is a fairly formidable indictment of the administration of a particular department. I believe it is an unchallenged indictment, though the whole basis of the material on which these conclusions are drawn is at the moment a matter of confidence; the arguments for them we cannot see. But it is apparently supported by extensive evidence in the unseen appendices, and the Government, for once, has acted rather quickly when it has had a problem in relation to the Bureau. 
Let it be said also that there are even graver charges hanging over the Bureau's head. These are not dealt with in the interim report. Firstly, there is the argument of deliberate noncooperation at times with State and Commonwealth police forces. We have had comment from the New South Wales royal commission today in relation to that. Secondly, there is the charge hanging over the Bureau that it has been penetrated by criminal elements. I know that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs said the other day: 'There was one bad apple we found'. I suggest there is a real danger that that one bad apple may contaminate others in the basket. Certainly there is at the moment an investigation of alleged leaks from within the Bureau in the Wilson case. If it is true that there were leaks from inside the Bureau, then the machinery of the Bureau has been an accomplice to murder. I am going to leave aside those charges because they are only suspicions- 
-Right, I am not going to use them in the argument against the Minister. I am saying that we had better realise that there are these charges as well as the confirmed allegations against the Narcotics Bureau. But I am prepared to base my case simply on the established facts. The Minister has been responsible to this Parliament for this Bureau for over two years. He knows his responsibility. He knew it from the outset. In fact, one can find various quotations from him about how he recognised, as soon as he got this appointment, that one of his responsibilities was the Narcotics Bureau. He knew of the responsibility. He accepted the responsibility, though in the last couple of days he has said: 'I have been there for only two years'. Perhaps the blame should be shifted a little farther back in time. Perhaps he is wanting to shift the blame to the Treasurer. 
When we look at the list of charges in the Williams report we have to ask ourselves these questions: Did the Minister know that the Bureau was widely believed to be inefficient? Why in over two years was it never suggested to this House by the Minister that there was a problem of efficiency within the Bureau? Why in the two years in which he has occupied this post has he never taken this House into his confidence about the problem of efficiency? Did the Minister know that there were allegations that the Bureau was over-centralised and poorly led? The only highlight there was his persuading of  Mr Harvey  Bates to come back after he had resigned over what  Mr Harvey  Bates took to be an affront. Did the Minister ever suspect that the Bureau was more concerned with its image than with its task of drug enforcement? If he did, he has never bothered to tell this House of that in the last two years. Did the Minister know that the Narcotics Bureau was distrusted by other law enforcement agencies? 
We originally raised this question in a bipartisan way. Why were the problems of the Narcotics Bureau not discussed in a bipartisan way? We raised the problem of distrust and the Minister said: 'Let us be bipartisan about this'. One aspect of bipartisanship is to take the Opposition into the Government's confidence on these issues. Did the Minister know that morale was poor in the Bureau? Did the Minister recognise that the Bureau's agents were poorly trained? Did the Minister realise that the achievements of the Narcotics Bureau had been, to put it mildly, disappointing? 
None of those questions was answered in the Minister 's speech. He never referred to any of the charges made against him. If he did know about those weaknesses, or some of them, it was his duty to inform this House. If he knew that the Bureau was inefficient, that morale was poor, that there were serious problems of relationships with other police forces, it was his duty to inform the House. If he knew and did not inform the House, he deserves to be censured. If, on the other hand, the Minister did not know about most of these major weaknesses in the Bureau, equally he deserves to be censured because surely it is the responsibility of the Minister- that is what we mean- to be on top of at least the major problems of the Department. Over two years the Minister has never told us anything at all about the problems of the Bureau. If he knew of them, he deserves to be censured by his attitude towards the House. If, on the other hand, he did not know of them, equally he deserves to be censured because it shows a lack of proper oversight. 
Only one hint has ever been given of the problem by the Minister. He referred to it on 8 March 1979 and repeated it last night when he said that the personnel and equipment of the Federal Narcotics Bureau had been substantially upgraded and that some SO additional narcotics investigators had been added to the Bureau in recent times. That is about the only suggestion this House has ever had that the Bureau has had a problem on its hands. We know now what  Mr Justice  Williams said about that kind of solution to the problem. He said that the Narcotics Bureau claimed that the simple remedy for any deficiencies it may have is to increase its staff, power and resources. He said that the Commission rejected this cure, which, in the Commission's opinion, would compound the problem, not solve it. 
Finally, the Minister has no excuse for not being alert to the problem. He appealed to us a moment ago to be bipartisan. For the last year we have gone along with the principles of the Bills which he has introduced in the drug field, even though sometimes we have had doubts about them. We have gone along with them, we have tried to improve them. We have behaved in a bipartisan way and we have been betrayed. Never during those two years or during that period of bipartisan co-operation were we or this 
House told by the Minister that, in fact, the Bureau to which we have been asked to give these enormous powers- powers related to listening devices and wire tapping- had a major question mark hanging over it. That is one reason why I think the Minister should have been alert to the problem. We have been talking about the Bureau constantly in this House. 
Secondly, the letters between his Department and the Royal Commission should have alerted him to this problem and should have led to more action. He said on the  Nationwide  program last night that he had acted decisively and positively by appointing a Royal Commission two years ago. We say that the problems that have been mounting in this Department, which the Minister has been increasingly alerted to, demanded swifter and speedier action than could be provided by the Royal Commission. It is true that in the end even the Minister began to realise that. He realised that after the Wilson affair. Let me say that the real problem about the Wilson affair is not the problem of the leak which is being investigated. I accept that the Minister is conducting an investigation. The real question is: Why was the Minister told nothing about the Wilsons until 10 days after their bodies were discovered? He knew nothing until 10 days after their bodies were discovered and then he learnt of the affair not from his Department, not from his Bureau, but from the  Sun News-Pictorial  in Melbourne. He has never answered that question. I hope that the Treasurer will explain to us why a Minister has to learn about an event of this kind in his department from the  Sun NewsPictorial  and not from his departmental head. That again should have alerted the Minister. 
I would like to make two comments on the speech made by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  One is specific and one is general. The specific point is that I agree with him on the matter of maldistribution of resources in relation to the poor Catholic schools. I suggest that next year the honourable member should pressure his 
Government to redistribute resources between the wealthy private schools and the poorer private schools. That is the simplest way of solving his specific difficulty. 
But the general point I want to make is that the honourable member for Lilley is a representative of a party devoted to the reduction of the public sector. It is devoted to the reduction of public expenditure in this country though one would never gather that from the speech that the honourable member gave. Of course, the reduction of the public sector, that is the reduction of public expenditure, means in fact the reduction of public provision for the schools of this country, both State and private. It means, as this Government has clearly shown, the reduction of social provision for health in this country, and the refusal of social provision for libraries in this country. This Government basically would like to return to the pre- 19 72 days which are characterised in this country by public squalor, by the failure to provide adequate public provision in schools, in health and in social welfare. If one looks at the social indices in relation to the gross national product under the 23 years of Liberal Party rule, one sees that this country compared more poorly than practically any advanced industrial society. That is what the Government wants to return to. 
After four years we can begin to see the policies of destruction and the undermining of public social provision in this country. Let me give a few examples. In terms of health provision, we have now had a series of capricious hacks at the system which are often quite contradictory. 
-The whole issue is related because the whole attitude of the Government to social provision is the same- contemptible. 
Just look at what the Government has done in relation to health. It is doing the same thing to education. In relation to health provisions the Government has made a series of wild blows. The health area is now in such a mess, because the Government has delivered the responsibility back to the private sector, and we are told that it is about to issue its fifth or sixth health scheme. 
Yesterday in this House we were given a piece of complete negation. The Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  talked about libraries related to - 
Well, if the honourable member for La Trobe had bothered to read the ministerial statement yesterday he would have seen that it referred to libraries in educational institutions. I know he has difficulty in realising that an educational institution is a school but we recognise the problems of the honourable member for La Trobe. Yesterday we had a statement of complete and utter negation by the Minister. After three years of looking at the Horton report, the Minister had the hide to come into this House and say that the Government will appoint another interdepartmental committee to look at the report of the last interdepartmental committee on the Horton report. I am glad that the Minister for Home Affairs never once looked up from his speech because he was so clearly ashamed of the dribble, the nonsense and the negatism he had to put before this House. 
If we have had wild and contradictory health cuts, if we have had utter passivity by this Government about libraries in this country, what we have had in the educational field is simply a nibbling away, a cutting back year by year in a marginal fashion of educational provisions- a process of remorseless attrition. The man who has presided over education has never presented a single educational ideal to this country. He is simply a desiccated calculating machine.  His  only interest in education is somehow to cut back the resources. The honourable member for Lilley dared to talk about a bipartisan, imaginative approach to education. I ask every member of the Government side of the House, at least all honourable members who can read, to go through the speeches - 
-Because I am beginning to realise that some honourable members on the Government side do not read. That is the problem. If honourable members go through the speeches of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)-  I challenge them to examine those speeches- they will find that they are completely bereft of ideas. I think honourable members will search in vain for a new idea in education in any of the speeches delivered in this Parliament by the present Minister for Education. Not a single innovation is suggested in any of those speeches in relation to educational policy in this country. There is not a single imaginative proposal towards educational developments in this country. There is not a single challenging idea about education compared to the wealth of ideas that poured forth from the Labor Minister for Education in the previous Government. Under this Minister education is simply an issue of dollars and cents. 
Indeed, like the whole Government, the Minister for Education when faced with an idea is like a rabbit paralysed before a snake. Let me give an example of that. The Minister told us in September that the Williams Report on Education, Training and Employment, the major report on education in this country in recent years, was under study by the Government and that in due course its recommendations and findings would come before the Senate. For three years Ministers have said that the Horton report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries was under consideration by this Government. After three years they have now said it would be under consideration for another year or so. That is what I fear will happen with the Williams report. It presents a whole set of ideas on which the Minister has never said a single creative thing. Not a comment has emerged from the Minister in relation to the proposals of the Williams report. I am told it is under consideration. I am told it will come out in due course. I know about the meaning of 'in due course' in relation to this Government. 
I want to consider university education which we have not talked about specifically. What is worrying me is that the financial obsessions of this Government are not only eroding the educational potential of this country but also, if one considers universities, one sees that under this Government tertiary institutions have been increasingly entrapped in a most complex bureaucratic machine in relation to the distribution of resources. The Liberal Party claims to be an anti-bureaucratic party. Yet in its effort to control educational finance at university and colleges of advanced education level it has created an appalling, complex administrative process for dealing with tertiary education. In the process for deciding on the distribution of funds 12 steps are now involved, each dependent on the previous one for determining the allocation of resources to tertiary institutions. In order to control the expenditure of money in tertiary institutions the Government has created a complex bureaucratic procedure which has now become unworkable. Honourable members do not have to take my words for that unworkability. The Tertiary Education Commission states: 
Since there are twelve steps in the above schedule, the average time available for each step is one month. Given that formal meetings of the Councils and Commission must be held in connection with most of the steps and that two reports have to be written, it is clear that there is simply not enough time in the year to deal with each step adequately. 
This kind of bureaucratic complexity has been imposed because of the Government's simple obsession with the deficit and finance. As the Commission itself admits, the Government's effort to control universities has become unworkable. 
The problem is compounded by what the Government calls the rolling triennium for equipment and capital, which makes advanced planning virtually impossible. We all know and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  who is at the table, certainly knows that the rolling triennium is a euphemism. The Minister knows that it scarely rolls, and it is certainly not a triennium. The grants are specified for only one year. That means that there are no clear commitments for the second and third years. What does the Williams Committee say about that? I presume that its report is under consideration by the Government. It may even have been read by some Ministers. It states: 
It is quite impossible for the Tertiary Education Commission to perform its functions in consultation with State authorities . . . unless plans and grants to universities and colleges are made on a fully triennial basis. 
The Tertiary Education Commission says the same thing. It states: 
The tightness of the above timetable, combined with the present rolling triennium arrangements, makes considered planning virtually impossible. Apart from the lack of time to undertake a deliberate examination of medium and long term requirements in ternary education, whether at the level of the Commission and Councils, State authorities or institutions, the lack of a guarantee of the magnitude of the funds available for the second and third years of the rolling triennium prevents any effective forward commitments for new expenditure from being made. 
Let me underline the Commission's key statement. It says: 
The present arrangements inhibit all developments of any significance. 
Those comments relate to capital expenditure. The same is true of equipment provisions. Equipment expenditure should be regarded as recurrent expenditure. It is necessary for universities, for both research and teaching, to know in advance over a three-year period what their equipment resources will be. Under the kind of administrative mess we now have, they do not know that. It is impossible to plan research programs with any precision unless the availability of equipment is known well in advance. 
I think it is important for all of us to protest against the growing inflexibility of this bureaucratic procedure and the way in which planning resources are determined for universities and colleges of advanced education. It is imposed by the procedures and the rolling triennium. I agree with honourable members on both sides who say that we need to make universities and colleges of advanced education more muscular institutions. No doubt we have to eliminate some of the fat in those institutions. But we cannot do that unless we give them greater flexibility to do so themselves. Universities are now in a steady state. We accept that. Roughly, the student populations in universities and colleges of advanced education are levelling out. This is the very time that they need much greater flexibility with reference to resources, not less flexibility. With these institutions in a steady state they need much greater flexibility for two major reasons. In order to make the best possible use of their resources, universities and colleges of advanced education need to rationalise imaginatively. They need to expand in some areas and cut back in others. Yet the procedures that have been given them and the lack of triennial funding make this extremely difficult. In fact, it is an anti-rationalisation procedure. I will not quote again from the Tertiary Education Commission's report. I must wind up as the debate is about to finish. The reports of the Tertiary Commission give numerous examples of where rational planning has been denied the universities because of the inflexible procedures imposed and the lack of triennial funding. 
Universities and colleges of advanced education need certain discretionary resources, funds to switch between staff and equipment. Possibly they even need to be able to switch capital funds to equipment and staff. Of course these funds have to be subject to annual and proper audit and accounting. Universities still have to account to the TEC. Nevertheless, despite that accounting procedure one would expect a Liberal Government, at least on its professions, to be sympathetic with these requests from universities for greater flexibility. It is supposedly the antibureaucratic party. It is supposedly the party of local responsibility- responsibility on the spot. It is supposedly the party of local institutional initiative. But these things are denied by the procedures it has imposed. I suspect that it is not  Senator Carrick's  fault. I suspect that it is the fault of the Treasury gremlins who have been getting at all aspects of this Government's activities. Perhaps it is even the fault of the gremlins from the Department of Finance- I am not quite sure. The Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who is nodding his head, accepts responsibility. Of course, the task of those departments is to ensure that every dollar is properly accounted for but a degree of control has been imposed by universities and colleges of advanced education which is in effect a bureaucratic inhibition on rationalisation within the university and college of advanced education sector. I could go on to discuss the way in which the financial resources of universities have been eroded but I will finish by saying that the most tragic impact of the cuts in university funding has not been on capital or equipment but on the very life blood of universities, which is research. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-Tonight I want to draw the attention of the House to the hurricane that cut a swathe of devastation through South Australia last night. I owe a considerable debt to my colleague, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles),  who has returned to Adelaide, for giving me much of the information which I will use tonight and whose electorate has suffered the most severe devastation in South Australia. Although the honourable member and I disagree on many points, I hope that we can co-operate in this matter. I think it is important to know that in Port Broughton nearly every house has been damaged- half of them severely- and there are reports that in various towns throughout the mid-north of South Australia the damage is estimated at between $500,000 and $lm although as yet most of the communications have not been restored to these towns. In the Barossa Valley there has been a band of destruction. Two wineries have been virtually totally destroyed and numerous others have been damaged. The extent of the damage to the vines themselves is still uncertain but what is clear is that the promise of a record harvest has been destroyed. It is not yet sure how much the vines have been affected, not just for this year but also for future years. In the Adelaide Hills the hailstorms that accompanied the hurricane winds have virtually wiped out the apple industry for this year. 
Across a wide area in my own electorate the market gardens and glass-houses have been flattened. I understand that across the Para River in the electorate of Wakefield the damage is even worse. In many cases market gardens often have small resources to enable them to recover. I understand that only a few weeks ago a new natural disasters agreement was signed between the State and Federal governments under which a State is responsible for the first $3m in disaster relief and then the Commonwealth comes in to support the State. I also would like to take the opportunity of thanking the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  who, I understand, has already promised to take action immediately to support the needs of South Australia. I also urge the South Australian Government to work on this as rapidly as possible. I am not suggesting it is not doing that, but of course the initiative lies very much with the State Government and it is the actions of the State Government which are in a sense the initiating force to get the resources from the Commonwealth Government. 
There are two points I would like to draw attention to particularly. I think that in this situation we all want to see support in terms that are as generous as possible for the rural people who have suffered. I know that at the moment in some States certain loan disaster relief money is available at concessional rates of about 4 per cent to 5 per cent. I would like to see that kind of approach taken by the State Government, which is primarily responsible for the terms and conditions of these loans. I think it is important that these disaster relief funds as both grants and loans at low concessional rates be utilised. Another concern, as always in these situations, is that tendencies to exploit the situation arise. Already there have been reports in my electorate that the price of glass for use in glass-houses, which was already in short supply, rose today by 20 per cent. It is important that the Commonwealth Government and the State Government make sure that the suffering and devastation are not exploited in this way by prices such as these. One of the things governments need to do is to take firm action to prevent exploitation in this way of a disaster situation. Governments have to take action to prevent the kinds of things that, according to rumour, are already happening in my electorate, that is, the exploitation of the situation by people greedy to make profits out of it. I am sure that we will all co-operate to bring relief to the South Australian situation. 
-The Opposition shares the disquiet about these Bills- the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Amendment Bill, the Telecommunications (Interception) Amendment Bill and the Customs Amendment Bill (No. 4)- that the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  has so eloquently expressed. He displayed that disquiet when similar measures were introduced in May. It seems to me that what has happened in the five months since May suggests that there should be much more reason for disquiet about these particular powers in this Parliament. We would certainly support the amendment that he has foreshadowed. We would certainly support the basic principle that he has enunciated in these very difficult regions, that is, that the authority of the Parliament, in relation to the exercise of these powers over individual Australians, must be asserted. 
This is a series of Bills to transfer the powers, originally given to the Federal Narcotics Bureau officers, to the officers of the Australian Federal Police. The Bills transfer the powers, which we discussed in this Parliament in long debates in May, that were given to the Narcotics Bureau officers to empower them to place listening devices and to authorise telephone tapping by those officers. It is now proposed, in the very last sitting week of this Parliament this year, to transfer these very important powers in a somewhat panicky series of measures across to the Australian Federal Police. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has clearly stated that it is inappropriate to deal with measures of this importance in the dying days of the parliamentary session under the kinds of conditions which the Government has imposed. I will say a little more about that later. 
There should be no need to suggest in this House that the power to place listening devices in the homes of Australian citizens, the power to wire-tap, to telephone tap the conversations of Australian citizens, are very great powers indeed. They should be powers that all members of this Parliament should be concerned with. They involve a major intrusion into the privacy of the lives of Australian citizens. In May we accepted that there would be certain conditions under which this power would be justified. But we did stress very strongly- indeed some of our amendments were accepted- that we clearly need to protect the rights of citizens if this power should ever need to be used. But let us be under no illusion that the kinds of powers are a threat to the whole democratic way of life which we encourage in this society. The very use of these powers opens up to unnamed bureaucrats, not just information relating to drugs which is the Government's particular purport. This Bill opens up the ability to listen to privileged conversation which has nothing to do with drugs and a whole series of often trivial and sometimes silly remarks. An enormous amount of information is opened up to intrusion by bugging devices and by wire tapping devices. It would be irresponsible of this Parliament not to take this issue very seriously. It is my view that the Government, by introducing these measures in the last week of the Parliament and in the dying days of the Parliament, is treating a very serious issue with a degree of lightness and almost with contempt. 
It seems to me that, even though the Parliament agreed to some of these provisions in May, there is a whole series of new implications raised by transferring these powers to the Australian Federal Police. 
-One of the implications is that, as the Minister suggested the other day, there are considerable doubts already about the kinds of powers that the Australian Federal Police possess in this field. The second implication is that, unlike the Narcotics Bureau, the Australian Federal Police is engaged in a series of other activities. The issue which I think the right honourable member for Lowe brought up is that the use of these powers carries over for the officers of the Australian Federal Police into their other activities or the other activities of the organisation in a way that they did not carry over for the Narcotics Bureau. I believe- and I think the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay)  would agree, even though he admitted the other day that in the field of law he is a much a dilettante as perhaps I am- that in the field of law the situation for the Australian Federal Police is somewhat different from the Narcotics Bureau. I will have a little more to say about that later. 
I am trying to suggest to the Minister that these are very great and serious powers. It seems to me that it is inappropriate that these Bills regarding transference should be rushed through in the last week of the Parliament. We have suggested a sunset clause so that the Government may have the resources to deal with problems in relation to narcotics in the next three or four months. We can accept that. A sunset clause would ensure that as soon as the Parliament resumes we could be given the opportunity seriously to consider these implications. We might all then have the advice of lawyers about some of the problems that derive from these changes that are now being made. This is one of the reasons why we have suggested a sunset clause in relation to this legislation. 
One of the matters that worries me is that we had very long debates in May and June about these powers in relation to the now defunct Narcotics Bureau. A series of events have taken place since then which have caused great disquiet on the Opposition side of the House. I would hope that some of those events since May and June have caused disquiet on the Government side. I shall mention some of the events that have taken place in the light of which we must consider this legislation. 
In June we gave great powers to the Narcotics Bureau in relation to bugging devices and wire tapping. Since then we have had a report on the Bureau to which we gave these powers which I summarise in these words: The Bureau is inefficient- or rather the Bureau was inefficient because it is now defunct- the Bureau was overcentralised and poorly led; it was obsessed with its image, it was distrusted by other lawenforcement agencies; the Bureau was characterised by poor morale; and the Bureau contained agents who were inadequately trained. Since we gave the powers to the Narcotics Bureau, we have had this formidable indictment of the very organisation to which this Parliament was asked to give these very great wire tapping and bugging powers. 
During those debates this Opposition engaged in a policy of bipartisanship with the Government. Nobody can deny that. Yet when we begin now to criticise the Government for its secrecy about the defects of the Narcotics Bureau, we are attacked by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  who says that we have abused the bipartisan approach. A fortnight ago, the Minister referred to:   an abuse by the Leader of the Opposition and the members of his party of this bipartisan approach. 
The Minister used those words because we attacked the fact that we had not been told earlier of the weaknesses that existed in the Narcotics Bureau. Clearly bipartisanship, if it is to mean anything, is a two-way affair. It is not just the Opposition recognising the seriousness of the drug problem and agreeing with the Government that certain rather severe measures have to be taken. Bipartisanship involves the Government being honest with the Opposition about the problems on its side. It is a two-way approach. Nobody now denies that we were bipartisan in relation to these powers in the debates on the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill in May and June. I may claim that, but honourable members may claim that I am a biased witness. But Government members admitted our bipartisanship. In describing Opposition members on 5 June, the honourable member for MacKellar  (Mr Carlton)  said: 
In recent weeks in this Parliament they have been engaged in a genuinely bipartisan attempt to assist the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs . . . in drawing up new legislation . . . 
A member of the Government said clearly that the Opposition had been engaged in a genuinely bipartisan attempt to assist the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs in drawing up new legislation. It is my view that the Opposition, despite all its reluctance about giving the Narcotics Bureau these powers, acted in a bipartisan way. I am afraid that it was bipartisanship in a one-way form. We were not told, even though the Minister had the information, of the very serious doubts that existed in the Government about the very organisation to which we were giving these extensive wire tapping and bugging powers. 
I want to take up the evidence for that. There was an extremely long debate in this House in which there were innumerable opportunities for the Minister to suggest any of the disquiet that he had about the operation of the Bureau, any disquiet about the organisation to which he was giving these powers. In addition, there was a very effective legislation committee inquiry. I think it is a credit to members on both sides of the House that this legislation committee worked very well with the Minister and the officers present. Again, not a single hint was given of the sorts of problems that lay behind the Narcotics Bureau. Yet we know that there were letters from the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs to the Minister casting severe doubts upon the efficiency, the morale, the training and the adequacy of the Narcotics Bureau. Those letters were in existence nine months before the debate took place. 
If the honourable member read the debate on the Commission report he would see that in late 1978 there were letters from the solicitors to the Royal Commission to the Minister and to the heads of his Department detailing many of the worries that the Royal Commission already had. Also, at the very end of the consideration of the legislation there was the problem of the Wilsons. I do not need to go over that whole sorry and sordid affair about the Wilsons. Opposition members in this House said: We have supported this Bill right through its course but we ask the Government, because of these new doubts cast by the Wilson affair over the whole Narcotics Bureau, not to implement these powers at this time'. I do not know whether the Minister then had the full Royal Commission report. I cannot prove that; I cannot establish that. But I believe that when that debate took place in this House- it was a very long debate with a very detailed committee procedure- the Minister, if he was an effective Minister who was aware of what was going on in one of the major agencies under his charge, must have known of some of those doubts. If he wanted a bipartisan approach, which we gave him, it was up to him to give us something in return; that is, to be much more honest and frank about the now defunct organisation to which we were giving these powers. We were reluctant in May to support these powers. But we went along with their provision and we went along with the argument. We are now deeply concerned about having gone along with their provision given the revelations of recent weeks. 
These powers are now to be taken from the Narcotics Bureau; They are to be given to the Australian Federal Police and the Minister responsible. There are now worries about some of the activities of the Commonwealth Police. Certainly in the Greek conspiracy case there is avowed evidence in the courts of telephone tapping which was carried out without the authority of the responsible Minister. The Minister has quite clearly said that this was without her or his authority. There is some debate over who is responsible. Of course, that raises a real doubt about how these powers will be used. I also know that, as the Minister has said- I will come to this point in a moment- there is a grey area in relation to what is a telephone tap and what is a listening device applied to a telephone. Moreover, it is fairly clear from some of the legal reports that we have had that this activity of the Commonwealth Police was almost certainly done without the authority of the law, unless one accepts a very sophistical argument that applying a listening device in relation to a telephone is not somehow a wire tap. I am prepared to agree that there is an argument about that matter. 
-Right, and the State authorities may have certain powers in this field. Nevertheless, I think that even the Minister for Administrative Services who is sitting at the table will agree that the events in relation to what has been called, perhaps wrongly, the Greek conspiracy case give us cause for doubt about the very organisation to which we are now giving these very great powers. In addition, the Minister for Administrative Services encourages these doubts. I quote his answer to a question which I find to be an extraordinary answer for a Minister to give. Last Thursday he said: 
Although I claim some things, I do not claim to be an authority on the law. Certainly, I agree that a grey area is developing about what is a telephone tap, what is a listening device and so on. 
I have nothing to add, except to say that I will not be involved in any questions of law. 
I repeat that he said that he would not be involved in any questions of law. I say quite frankly to the Minister that if these powers are to be given to the Australian Federal Police, inevitably the Minister responsible will have to be involved in questions of law. That is, he will not be able to go on telling the Parliament that he 'will not be involved in any questions of law' because in essence very difficult decisions of law will have to be made. Indeed, one of the things we try to do through these Bills is to give effective authority to the political executive in relation to the use of these devices. In a sense of course that involves the Minister responsible to this House for the Austraiian Federal Police. Since the debate on these matters last took place we have had very disquieting evidence about the organisation to which we gave the powers- the Narcotics Bureau. Now we have considerable and disquieting evidence about the organisation to which the powers are to be given and about the Minister responsible for the overseeing of that organisation. 
In these circumstances it seems to me to be totally inappropriate that these Bills should be brought in in the dying days of the Parliament and rushed through without much deeper and longer consideration of the implications involved. For those reasons we will move for the inclusion of the sunset provision. Being in some ways much more honestly bipartisan than the Government, we recognise that in the next three or four months there may need to be authority in relation to these types of devices. But we want to see this issue and the problems involved, as well as the problems raised by the right honourable member for Lowe, brought back to this House to be debated and discussed. That is the chief reason for the sunset clause provision. 
Our other proposed amendments were criticised by the right honourable member for Lowe. In many ways I have sympathy with his criticisms. But I say to him that we have been forced to bring in these amendments in extremely hurried conditions. They were all designed at very short notice again to try to ensure the most effective defence that we can provide, for private citizens in relation to the misuse of the information secured by bugging and tapping. The amendments may not be perfect. We have not had the time to make them perfect. All we are saying is that for the moment, in response to this hurried legislation, let us have a sunset clause and let us put in, albeit inadequately, the best protection we can give Australian citizens until this matter is more fully debated by this Parliament. I hope that all honourable members on both sides of the House who are concerned about the very great issues involved in these measures will support at least the sunset provision which will give this Parliament a real chance to reconsider this legislation. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 16 September 1979: 
1 ) Further to his answer to question No. 4432  (Hansard,  26 September 1979, page 1600) relating to change of status, is it a fact that 37.9 per cent of all applications approved for change of status during 1978-79 fell into the 'others' category (i.e. outside those categories which according to his statement of 7 June 1978 were to be the only exceptions). 
What are the chief characteristics of this 'others' category. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 15 November 1979: 
Has General Motors, in its discussions with him regarding the export facilitation scheme, supplied him with details of the sourcing of imported components; if so, what are the components and what are the sources from which these components will be imported? 
Will the export credit scheme operate on a value for component basis; if so, what arrangements will the Government introduce to balance the labour-cost component of imports from low-wage countries with the labour-cost component of Australian exports? 
If the export credit scheme will not operate on a value of components basis, what basis will be used? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) Has Australia signed and ratified the Convention on Registration of objects launched into Outer Space; if not, why not. 
Has Australia signed and ratified the Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and use of Outer Space, including the moon and Other Celestial Bodies. 
Does this Treaty affirm that States shall bear international responsibility for their national activities and refers to the State on whose registry an object launched into outer space is carried. 
Has Australia signed and ratified the Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects. 
Does this Treaty establish international rules and procedures concerning the liability of launching States for damage caused by their space objects. 
Does the effectiveness of the Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies and the Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects depend on the establishment of a central register of objects launched into outer space as agreed upon in the Convention of Objects launched into Outer Space. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) How many persons have applied for immigration to Australia since 1 January 1979. 
How many persons have been accepted for immigration since 1 January 1979. 
How many persons were approved in the categories, (a) immediate family reunion, (b) special family reunion, (c) nances, (d) independent applicants, (e) employment nominees, (f) refugees, (g) patrials, (h) entrepreneurs, (i) self-supporting retirees, and (j) others. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
1 ) On what grounds does Australia base its claims of sovereignty in Antarctica. 
Is it a fact, as stated in the  Australian  of 19 September 1979, that Australia's sovereignty claims angered Third World observers at the 10th Antarctic Treaty consultation meeting in Washington, USA? 
Did USA officials at the consultation state, as reported in the  Australian  that Australia's policy on Antarctia was amazing and invalid; if so, which officials made the statements and to whom. 
Did he authorise an article in the  Washington Post  of 18 September 1979 which took the form of a policy statement. 
Has the Government considered the possibility of the inter-nationalisation of Antarctica; if so, what attitude has it formulated; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 15 November 1979: 
1 ) Further to the reply to question No. 4568  (Hansard,  16 October 1979, page 2084), is the formal framework referred to the same as the early warning system, referred to by the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, whereby trading partners were told of intentions to increase barriers against their exports  ( Weekend Australian,  27-8 October 1979). 
) Is an early warning system the only formal framework Australia has for economic relations with ASEAN. 
If so, why has Australia failed to negotiate a trade or industrial cooperation agreement with ASEAN. 
Will the negotiation of an industrial cooperation agreement between ASEAN and the European Economic Community and the absence of an agreement between Australia and ASEAN place Australia at a comparative disadvantage in developing closer economic links with ASEAN. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 21 November 1979: 
Will the proposed examination of Aboriginal land rights legislation referred to by the Minister on 1 3 November 1 979 be without detriment to the basic principles of the Act; if so, will the power of veto possessed by the Aboriginal community over developments at Jabiluka not be abrogated as a result of this examination. 
