-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether he can advise the state of the inquiry currently being conducted by  Sir Henry  Bland, into the cessation of the Tasmanian rail passenger service? Can the Senate be assured that no substantial redundancy will result from the takeover by the Australian National Railways Commission of the Tasmanian Railways? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, concerns repatriation hospitals. Would the Minister agree that the community would receive a far wider scope of hospital services, the staff of repatriation hospitals would be given a greater stimulus and the traditional patients of these hospitals would benefit if the Government gave consideration to extending the role of repatriation hospitals to provide for the community use of emergency departments? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the Auditor-General 's acknowledged criticism of standards of internal auditing in the Public Service, will the Minister give an assurance to this House that the standards will be upgraded and that adequate professional staff will be allocated to this important function? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that the trading banks are moving away from the traditional overdraft form of lending to fixed sum and term loans to increase their profitability? Can the Government, through control of the statutory reserve deposits of the Reserve Bank of Australia, reverse this trend and restore bank overdraft accommodation as an option to borrowers and prospective clients? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether he can inform the Senate of the latest figures on Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development consumer price increases? How did consumer price increases in Australia, in the 12 months and six months to June 1978, compare with the OECD averages for the same period? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, concerns Public Service accounting. Will the Government give consideration to classifying costs on a functional basis where practicable in the accounts of the departments under Public Service Board  control to  conform with modern, accepted accounting standards? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Will the Minister give an assurance to the people on the north-west coast of Tasmania that Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia will continue to service that area through the airports of Devonport and Wynyard? Further, will he give an assurance that his Department will continue to maintain a high level of service to both airports? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations concerns the visual displaying of job vacancies at all Commonwealth Employment Service offices to assist the unemployed to get work. Will the Minister, with the consent of the employers concerned, arrange for all vacancies on record in Commonwealth Employment Service offices to be listed on public display under appropriate classification headings to enable unemployed persons personally to pursue job vacancies.? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
Will the Government give consideration to classifying costs on a functional basis where practicable in the accounts of the departments under Public Service Board control to conform with modern, accepted accounting standards. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Despite severe cost disciplines, will the Government make a request to the Australian Broadcasting Commission to tape transcripts of the popular and informative  Science Show  to meet a growing public demand for this service? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that continuing delays in releasing specifications for a new computer system for the Australian Bureau of Statistics are causing departmental concern about the Bureau's ability to handle its current work load? Further, despite substantial lead times in procurement and installation of the equipment and in getting software running, can the Minister assure the Senate that the Bureau will be in a position to handle the 1981 national population census and other related matters, including the early implementation of the economic census that will result in a rationalisation of business returns for Australian companies? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that the policy of the Australian National Railways Commission of tendering Australia-wide for Tasmanian railway rolling stock is having a prejudicial effect on employment in the Tasmanian railway workshops in Launceston? Is it the policy of the Australian National Railways Commission to reduce the construction departments in Launceston to mere maintenance departments? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. As a means of giving effect to the need to conserve petroleum fuel, will the Government give consideration to increasing the proportion of lower horsepower four cylinder cars within the Commonwealth car fleet? 

 -Mr President, I wish to congratulate you on your reelection as  President.  I am aware of the qualities of impartiality, sense of dignity and respect of individual differences that you bring to this high office. I also wish to congratulate my fellow new senators on the success they have had in representing their States and their parties in this chamber. May we all work together in harmony to achieve tolerance, assistance to those in need and security for present and future Australians. 
I am deeply conscious of the duties required of a senator and of the contributions made by my predecessors. I particularly wish to refer to the Honourable  Sir Reginald  Wright who, for 29 years, untiringly fought to uphold legal and constitutional propriety and sought to maintain the Senate as a strict House of review.  His  utter.ings were not always popular but his speeches were thought-provoking and his messages were clear. As a new senator I recognise that my obligations extend far wider than to the people who directly elected me as I now have responsibilities to the whole community of Tasmania- a State that I am proud to represent. In this southernmost State the feelings of kinship are generally strong and protection from the dictates of the decision-makers of the more greatly populated mainland areas is sometimes required. It is for this reason that the Tasmanian contingent from both sides in each House is often a vocal one. Regrettably, to some, the glitter of the Tasmanian Emerald Isle' is a little tarnished at the moment not only by government actions but also by corporate decisions because demands of profits have caused certain established companies to leave the State, all too frequently neglecting obligations to employees and townsfolk in decentralised areas. The vacuum causes difficulties as alternative job opportunities are frequently lacking and labour mobility is low. Displaced persons in such situations find themselves with either no employment or a job where their capabilities far exceed those required of the position. 
Naturally morale in such an environment is not always high. 
In this setting I mention the closure of Kelsall and Kemp, regarded for many years as the finest woollen mill in Australia. This is one of the reasons for my presence in this Parliament and the tone of my speech tonight. Hopefully my contribution will bring a degree of sanity to our protection policy and prevent similar occurrences. At that mill there was a working environment that would be the envy of most industrialists because people were not regarded as cogs in a machine but as contributors to a joint working experience producing high quality products based on a pride in workmanship frequently handed down within the family circle. I recall one such dedicated group where 19 members were employed in various departments. Another unit boasted of service through three generations. One such member wanted to be the last to leave despite other job opportunities that were offered in the meantime. This was typical of the loyalty of those men and women. 
The effect of government decisions on people was therefore brought home very strongly to me during those tortuous months of closure of the mill. On one occasion a government official spoke glibly of the little social consequence of the closure since in his mind most of the men could obtain jobs and a high proportion of the women were married. In such a plaintive analysis, by merely examining the prefix  'Mrs' to  a person's surname, he did not account for the social implications to the divorced, the separated and the effective breadwinners often because of a strained domestic situation or because work was a means of supporting a family suffering tremendous financial hardship due to illness or accident or even a means for a mother to seek relief and companionship on a five-hour twilight shift while the husband handled the family pressures of a prolonged terminal illness of one of their children. I ask honourable senators not to take decisions lightly when people 's livelihoods are in jeopardy because the spin-off effects on social life are tremendous. 
Governments in nearly all highly developed countries provide a measure of protection to their industry. North America, the European Economic Community countries and Japan perhaps provide the best examples. In the interests of Australia, the popular academic and Treasury thinking now prevailing must be tempered by examining Australia's position in 1978-79 rather than by what may be good theoretical economics as taught by the London School of Economics in earlier years and which apply to a typical British 
Isles situation of a small, densely populated country surrounded by world markets on its doorstep. 
Many of our economists refer to the 'inefficient manufacturing sector' of the Australian economy, but in so doing ignore five important factors. Firstly, Australia, since the Harvester decision, has been a high labour-cost country and our past tariff policy has rightly contributed to a reasonable and, until now, growing standard of living for the majority of Australians. Secondly, the size of the Australian market often places limitations on the scale of manufacturing operations. Thirdly, balance of payments difficulties, which, despite some statements to the contrary, are not entirely new to this country, in the near future will place increasing pressures on government to restrain imports and so save a deteriorating foreign exchange situation. Fourthly, there is a need to maintain a reasonable level of selfsufficiency in times of national emergency. Fifthly, and most importantly, there is the employment crisis, especially amongst the young. This situation will not be resolved while the manufacturing sector's proportion of the gross national product continues to fall. It should be a matter of Australia-wide concern that the numbers employed in manufacturing over the five-year period to June 1978 decreased by 18.8 per cent. No wonder we have an unemployment problem. This situation must be reversed. I therefore call upon governments to reverse this trend. 
A part of the price of reducing unemployment from the present unacceptably high levels is to encourage, by appropriate quotas and other measures, protection to manufacturing industry. Manufacturers in this country do not ask for 100 per cent of the market, but what they do seek is that their market share will not be continuously eroded. I know of one sector of industry where in 1973 imports accounted for 10 per cent of the market. Now those imports account for 40 per cent of the market and are growing steadily. With capital investment costs increased because of inflation and a fall in share of the market due to the impact of imports, I ask from the manufacturer's point of view: Is there any justifiable reason why investment decisions should not be pruned or placed under close surveillance? Industry needs to be assured that provided it is reasonably efficient in terms of output per man hour, there is a reasonable expectation for it to have an agreed share of the Australian market, whether it be 30 per cent, 50 per cent or 80 per cent, depending on the government's philosophy, which in turn is an expression of its own political priorities. Manufacturing industry provides for a diversity of employment opportunities and a fulfilment of educational training by applying high technical skills to the practical needs of business. This expertise requirement rubs off onto the tertiary industries, to universities and to technical colleges. 
I think it is important that in quite simple terms 1 should come back to this question of efficient industries. During the last 12 months a major manufacturer mentioned to me that during his visits to places such as the Philippines, Korea, Hong Kong, Japan, Italy and the United States of America, despite 'sweat workhouse' conditions in some of those countries, he could not find one case where the output per employee for a certain packaged lingerie item exceeded on average production in his own plant. But according to Industries Assistance Commission criteria, he was regarded as an inefficient operator. He agreed that his labour costs were significantly higher than those overseas but I must stress that this was due to government and union policy in maintaining a reasonable standard of living by way of paying an adequate wage. Therefore, if it is government policy to maintain a high level of wages in Australia, surely the victims must not be the source that provides this remuneration. 
Textiles have traditionally been regarded as a dispensable industry because of so-called failures to meet standards of efficiency or because of ancient plant. However, I could show honourable senators the most advanced computerised cutting section at Wentworth outside Sydney that draws industrialists in textile technology from all round the world to view this particular plant. Bonds Industries was also amongst the world leaders in developing the revolutionary open-ended spinning process, and that company pioneered the commercial technique in Australia. The reduction in textiles output and employment levels has been quite disastrous, especially in areas outside the major capital cities. For example, the decline in the number of people employed from June 1973 to June 1978 was 44.7 per cent in Tasmania compared with the Australian average of 28.2 per cent. 
Traditionally primary producers have been against any measure of protection. In simple terms their philosophy has been one of free trade. But now the situation is changing. For example, imports of fruits and vegetables to Australia have increased almost four-fold since 1972-73, and imports for the year 1977-78 exceeded $92m. That is a matter of increasing concern to local growers. Many Tasmanian producers are only too well aware of the difficulties faced by certain manufacturers and primary producers in that State because of the free trade agreement with New Zealand. Despite criticism, which has come principally from automobile associations and farming groups, the policy of increasing oil prices was not only realistic but also in Australia's long term interests. The sooner we find an alternative fuel to oil the more insulated the Australian economy will become and the less vulnerable it will be to the political manipulations of the oil exporting countries. The Government's policy recognises that world supplies in terms of world production are falling. Therefore, irregularity of supplies and further price escalations by exporting countries must be anticipated. The increases in the price of petroleum fuels must lead to an increased interest in oil exploration in Australia. This will be a factor of considerable importance in improving our balance of payments situation. I would like to see greater funds provided for research into alternative fuels because I feel that this is essential for Australia 's prosperity. 
The exploration industry provides the best example of the need to ensure an adequate return for risks undertaken. The often maligned concept of profit deserves some analysis and it is one to which I shall give increasing attention during my term in this Parliament. Profit and exploration are not synonymous terms. I now wish to distinguish at least three contributors to profit. The first is a return on investment for capital equipment. Such a reward should be somewhat higher than the long term bond rate. The profit is therefore related to the cost of finance; in other words, it is an excess over the cost of capital. Secondly, there must be a further reward for special entrepreneurial expertise or innovative skills. The third contributing factor to profit is the concept of a reward for risk taking. In this last component of profit the reward must understandably be high since managers are not in a position to chart a profitability graph as they can when they are in a position of uncertainty or a still happier position of complete knowledge. Regretfully, none of the contributors to profit appears to have been fully recognised by the Prices Justification Tribunal or by government departments. As a senator who is deeply conscious of the contributor of Australian-owned companies, I stress the importance of maintaining a high and increasing equity in Australian mining, manufacturing and tertiary industries. 
I wish to place on record the tremendous work undertaken by the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd in securing Australia's future. That company has provided Australia with a low cost iron and steel industry. It continues, despite poor returns, to invest new funds in its steel division. For example, for the year ended 31 May 1978, $107m was expended and it is expected that this figure will be exceeded in the current year. The company operations are highly decentralised. They extend from Mount Newman in the west of the country to Queensland, from Groote Eylandt in the north to Temco in Tasmania where that raw material is processed. Had it not been for BHP investing substantially in the Sarich orbital engine, this invention would surely have been lost to overseas interests. BHP's contribution in buying back the farm- in other words, putting Australian ownership in the hands of Australian corporations- has been quite significant. The best example of this contribution was the purchase of the American Peabody's interest in the Moura coal field in Queensland. This was the first Queensland coal interest which had large scale exports to Japan. Three years ago, BHP purchased the interest of the British company, Burmah, in the North West Shelf project. With the technical and financial help from the Shell company which is a joint manager, this project has great possibilities. In the new development area, BHP pioneered the manganese deposits on Groote Eylandt with the result that that mineral is now exported all over the world. 
However, the company is not involved only in exploitation, namely, the quarrying of the raw product for direct sale to overseas markets. Much of the manganese from Groote Eylandt is further processed at Temco in northern Tasmania. A new development involves a coal project at Gregory where $230m will be expended and in relation to which the first deliveries are due to take place in 1 980. BHP provided the initiative in offshore drilling for oil which commenced in 1954 not far from Sydney. This culminated in the successful discovery of oil and its commercial recovery in collaboration with Esso in Bass Strait. A further project could involve the liquefying of natural gas in Western Australia. Feasibility studies on this project are now in their final stages and a decision on the future of it may be made next year. To proceed with this project, an investment of $2,000m will be required. A further study involves the new oil discovery on the Exmouth Plateau which is 200 kilometres offshore. This area is regarded as the last prospect for a major oil find off the Australian coast. It is anticipated that $10m could be spent on a single oil well. A new technology will be involved as the drilling is expected to commence at 1,000 feet below the sea surface. The first of these wells will be drilled next year. This is the sort of company that Australia requires. It is a company that is Australian owned, staffed and managed. It develops products that the country needs and at a price that it can afford. 
In many ways our tax laws are archaic and hinder both progress and enterprise. Furthermore, they do not recognise many new situations faced by today's industries or assist in tackling community problems. I will cite one example. There is a need for the creation of a completely new subdivision to deal with forestry, with provisions as extensive as those sections which deal with mining. The Asprey Taxation Review Committee provided a comprehensive scheme for the overhaul of our taxation system. Despite the need, little has been done, apart from the haphazard closing of loopholes. Many of these changes required up to 40 pages of amendments. Private companies have been suffering a financial dilemma ever since the increase in the levels of private company taxation to levels commensurate with public company rates, simply because there were no offsetting amendments to the Division VII provisions. An urgent overhaul to section 260 of the Act is needed. Anti-tax avoiding provisions are well overdue because it is widely recognised that artificial schemes are on a grand scale flouting the present intention of the law. I would also like to see the States relieved of the burden of payroll tax which is an iniquitous tax in times of unacceptably high unemployment. 
In our budgeting processes, we need to plan in detail over a longer period than just 12 months. This would involve adopting a concept known as rolling budgets. The adoption of such a concept would take out many of the antics and uncertainties which occur in the long and unnecessary waiting period involved with the present practices. 
In concluding, I wish to refer briefly to my own State, which is blessed, for the most part, with a great variety of scenery, good rainfall, plentiful rivers and lakes. The free source of water provides the State with pollution free hydro-electric power producing an output in excess of at least that from two of the other geographically larger States. Tasmania is a major producer of 1 7 micron and finer superfine wool and a major contributor to Australia's foreign exchange earnings in terms of dollars per head of population. Being an island State, and despite its convivial and envied life style, structural changes, regrettably, have not assisted its economy. For example, the Apple Isle' description is hardly relevant nowadays, for while Tasmanian apple production in tonnes for the five years to 1977-78 declined by 53.7 per cent, production in New South Wales rose by 7. 1 per cent. Such structural changes as are occurring in the fruit industry are happening in other areas and causing difficulties not only to governments but, more importantly, to people. 
Finally, 1 wish to pay recognition to the sacrifices of and the assistance from my wife, Jocelyn, and four children. I wish to express my appreciation for the help of my friends, for the support of the Party, for the wisdom of  Senator Rae  and, for the guidance of Kevin Newman. I also want to thank Don Wing, State  President  of the Liberal Party in Tasmania. Not only has he been a personal friend from school days; he is a man of integrity. Under his direction the Liberal Party has organisational leadership with an ethical standard seldom equalled in the realms of business or politics. 
-I present the following petition from 532 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: - 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the A.C.T. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to:- 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the A.C.T. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, concerns export licences for woodchip operations. In granting future woodchip export licences, will the Minister give consideration to more stringent requirements as to, firstly, regeneration; secondly, replanting; and, thirdly, the minimisation of Are hazards by adequate disposal of tree heads? 
-I did not intend to speak on this subject, but after hearing the sympathetic attitude that  Senator Elstob  took regarding the position of railways, I thought I should point out that in Tasmania we seem to have fared rather badly with the takeover of our railways by the Australian National Railways Commission. I think it is probably relevant to point out some of the things that have been lost to the State. The first to go was the small parcel service. Then, despite an inquiry being held by Professor Bland, the Tasman Rail Passenger Service was eliminated. I found that move particularly obnoxious because, after giving a very detailed submission to the inquiry I was not even allowed to see the report. Then we lost the services of the transport of livestock which was a great loss to primary producers. Despite representations to upgrade the lines, we are now told that the position is one of rehabilitating an old track which essentially is of an 1870 standard. This means that bad curves will not be eliminated and the right weight ratio of rail track to carry particularly heavy loads will not be available. 
Today I was informed that no new construction work would be undertaken in the Launceston Railway Workshops; that instead some of the older equipment from South Australia would be brought across to Tasmania. Unfortunately, we will find that there will therefore be loss of job opportunities. All that we have managed to salvage as a result of repeated representations to the Minister have been about six jobs for women stewardesses who supposedly were to have been retrenched when the Tasman Passenger Service was taken off the run. I assure honourable senators that it took something like a fortnight of hard work before new positions could be found for these people. I only hope that in this reconstruction we will have a system that is efficient and provides a reasonable service to the people of Tasmania because the way things are going it appears that the railways within that State have a very bleak and limited future. 
-My appraisal of the defence estimates is not an echo of the recurrent and perhaps often valid criticism of the lack of preparedness on the part of our defence forces to meet an emergency. Rather, I direct my attention to the civil management processes of ensuring that the Government, and this means the taxpayer, obtains value for the dollars expended. My short experience in this Parliament sitting on various back bench committees, on the Joint Committee of Public Accounts and Estimates Committee F makes me very unimpressed with the attitude of the Public Service to the spending of public money. I find that there is almost a complete lack of internal departmental controls over public expenditure and the Auditor-General's recent reports on the Department of Defence show that this Department is a very guilty offender. 
In Estimates committees I think that at times we may pay undue attention to variations in the figures for this year compared with the figures of the previous year. Important though this must be, I believe that the Estimates committees should examine also the total composition of each item and look at the need to justify each item in the first instance. On the other hand, I must express a degree of gratitude to the officials of the Department of Defence for their frank answers and their written answers to our requests. The limited resources- less than 9 per cent of Budget allocations- must mean that we should derive full value for the dollars expended on defence, particularly the money directed to  the uniformed sections, rather than favour an administrative elite of armchair civilians. To support this contention I cite two years- the year to June 1969 and the year to June 1978. Honourable senators will recall that the year to June 1969 was the year of heavy involvement in Vietnam where, for example, 33,220 full time operative civilians supported 125,562 uniformed personnel, including regular and national servicemen, civilian reserves and other reserves without training obligations. This situation compares with 31,431 or 1,789 fewer civilians supporting 94,341 uniformed personnel in 1978. This situation is perhaps exaggerated when one notes the greater proportion of the top echelon, particularly Second Division officers. This high degree of centralisation of Second Division people is realised when one examines the figures which show that 83 of the 1 17 Second Division officers are located in Canberra. There also have been quite large increases in the number of Third and Fourth Division officers. 
To the uninitiated in Public Service routines this disproportionate decrease must inevitably mean that red tape is rampant or that Parkinson's law has run riot. In such a climate morale amongst the uniformed section will not be particularly high. Therefore, we will have a less effective fighting force. However, I recognise that since 1973 the number of civilians per 1,000 servicemen has progressively been reduced but it is still nowhere near the 1969 figure. In correspondence with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  as a result of certain statements made in the defence estimates, he reminded me that the Australian ratio of civilians to servicemen is half that of the United Kingdom and 20 per cent below that of the United States of America. I believe that the comparisons should be treated with a high degree of caution. Britain has a large army on the Rhine. The United States has commitments to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation as well as global commitments. Furthermore, the Australian civilian figure includes 5,300 people in dockyards. However, as we were reminded in the Melbourne  Age  newspaper not so long ago, Cockatoo Island dock workers have not built a ship for 10 years. Approximately 70 per cent of the workers have never built a warship. 
The Department of Defence is one of the 12 departments and organisations which is labouring on with the Mandata computer exercise of the Public Service Board. It will be committing 38 people at a total cost of $423,000 for 1978-79 for an as yet incomplete personnel and leave records system, a program that commenced approximately six years ago. The figures reveal a certain tardiness in the management of the stockholding of military vehicles or defence vehicles. For example, designation GS B, cross country vehicle section is 1 3 per cent or 1 ,098 vehicles above approved entitlements. On the other hand, 50 per cent or 3,542 vehicles in the category of passenger cars, buses, ambulances and trucks of a commercial design are recognised as over-aged and are scheduled for replacement. I stress the great fixed cost of maintaining certain establishments. I draw attention to building costs and the costs of maintenance and repairs of the two establishments at Russell and Campbell Park. The appropriation for this year on repairs and maintenance for those two establishments is $1,053,300. 
In support of my argument for greater control over expenditure I draw attention to certain criticisms raised in the Auditor-General's report. I am concerned that very little appears to be done about Auditor-General's reports over the years. I cite the following examples: A continuing failure to manage appropriately all aspects of computer services and the great costs incurred thereby. There are deficiencies in the control of departmental holdings of furniture and other assets. The position regarding the establishment of a central asset register is unsatisfactory. There is a need for a system to improve recovery and control over the level of sundry debtors. There is an unsatisfactory procurement procedure for certain assets. Unusual practices are adopted, for example, in servicing certain aircraft. There are budget difficulties in such relatively simple items as office supplies which require special advances from the Minister. I therefore urge the need for greater accountability. I look forward to an early examination of the Department of Defence by the Auditor-General's Office in conducting an efficiency audit. I believe that the Defence Department has a lot to learn in regard to the management of its resources and its accountability. 
-My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  As this chamber is a States House as well as a House of review - 
... will you give consideration to the acquisition and display in this chamber of a flag from each State and the Northern Territory in addition to the Australian flag? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Science. Is it true that as a possible offset against future purchases of Facom Australia Ltd equipment by the Government Facom has offered to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation a computer worth $4m for a period of four years at no charge other than the cost of monthly maintenance? I further ask: Has this offer been accepted, and if not, why not? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. In the light of the Government's refusal to commit extra funds to develop Australian based defence industries, will he assure the Senate that there will be no reduction in government spending on defence support industries within Australia during the next two years? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry explain why the Australian Wool Corporation has been so tardy in its financial support of the Australian wool symbol, a mark which is designed to encourage greater use of Australian wool in manufactures here in Australia? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, concerns the interim profit of Telecom Australia. When there is a change in accounting practice it is normal reporting procedure to indicate the dollar effect of such a change. Firstly, why was this not done in reporting the interim profit of Telecom and what was the amount involved? Secondly, why were substantial capital costs to Telecom written off in the year in which the costs were incurred instead of being carried forward or allocated to future years which would benefit from those costs, as is the recognised accounting practice in this country? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Will the Minister give consideration to allowing unemployed workers to earn up to $20 per week before such income will affect their unemployment benefit? Does the Minister agree that such a scheme would provide work experience, would put unemployed workers on a parity with age pensioners in relation to earnings and would serve as an encouragement to them to seek part time employment, which in the majority of cases leads to full time employment? 
-The Audit Bill is, in part, a response to public expectation that increased economy must be practised in the area of government operations where transactions are increasing in volume and, in many cases, also in unit cost, with the result that the necessary funding is taking a growing proportion of gross national product. Few Bills that come before this Senate have received as much scrutiny within the Parliament and its committees and the Auditor-General's office as this Bill to amend the Audit Act of 1901. I wish to concur with many of the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  in that I think it is rather deplorable that it has taken so long for these amendments to reach this House. Under ministerial responsibility each departmental head has the responsibility for the proper management of his department, including the implementation of internal audit. 
Within the Joint Committee of Public Accounts I have expressed deep concern at the lack of internal audit procedures in the majority of departments. The Public Service Board, under section 17 of the Public Service Act, is charged with promoting efficiency and affecting economies. As a third tier we are now adding this concept of efficiency auditing to be conducted by an independent statutory officer, the Auditor-General. 
Until now, the legislative requirements of the Audit Act have been designed to ensure regularity or compliance of financial transactions, and to provide the Parliament with an assurance that the departmental accounts have been properly kept and that the Treasurer's statement is in agreement with those accounts. This Bill extends the concept of auditing to a second and more important phase- to allow the Auditor-General to carry out efficiency audits not only of government departments but of public authority undertakings of the Commonwealth, of Commonwealth organisations and of companies which are owned by the Commonwealth. The definition of efficiency auditing in the Bill covers an examination to ensure that efficiency and economy are practised, and to look at the functions performed, the procedures of implementation and the operations to be carried out. Therefore, the resources, personnel, plant and equipment must be utilised in an economical and efficient way while inadequacies in the information systems are highlighted. 
Regretably in some respects the Bill does not incorporate a third and most important phase of auditing known as effectiveness or purpose audits which are concerned with the relationship between purpose on the one hand and result on the other. Thus a program, effectiveness or action audit results in a situation where an action is effective if the purpose for which it was initiated has been achieved, and then that effectiveness must be achieved with an economic use of resources. One reason why the Bill did not extend to this third and most challenging area of audit arises, as  Senator Wriedt  mentioned, because of our Westminster style of government where the lines of demarcation between executive and legislative arms are not as distinct as in the Presidential system. However, I think it is extremely important that the Auditor-General guard against becoming involved in political judgments as it is imperative that he maintain his independence and objectivity at all times. 
As we are aware, the Auditor-General reports annually to Parliament. He is the agent of Parliament and not of the Prime Minister. The scrutiny of public funds is most important. This Parliament recognises the importance of the scrutiny of public spending and one medium that it uses is the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. This Committee is said to be a link between the executive and the legislative branches of government. As such, the Joint Committee of Public Accounts has a very close liaison with the AuditorGeneral. This Committee, which represents members and senators from the major parties, is an effective medium in opening to public scrutiny matters which may not otherwise be disclosed. 
I believe that the administrative arrangements within the Auditor-General's office, the centralising of the whole of the efficiency segment of his work here in Canberra is to be condemned; rather the officials should be deployed in the areas where many of the examinations are to be performed such as Melbourne, Sydney and other principle locations. But this decentralisaton does not mean that it is not desirable to provide some form of central co-ordination of efficiency audit activities here in Canberra. The Act recognises new auditing standards and techniques that apply for the safeguarding and control of information through the increasing use of computers. I welcome the section 54 amendments in Part XI which require that public authorities keep proper records of transactions in accordance with accounting principles generally applied in commercial practice and that the annual financial statements are reported upon based on criteria which are not fundamentally different from those required under company legislation relating to the private sector. 
Let me draw the attention of the Senate to one aspect which I believe will not be repeated as a result of this legislation. I refer to a matter which I raised during Question Time and that was the interim profit result of Telecom Australia, because as I stated then and as I state now that profit result is false. It is misleading because capital or asset items which affected future periods had been charged to the current year's operating costs, resulting in a substantial reduction in reported profit, and furthermore the effect of that decision was not disclosed. Such manipulations, I believe, would be covered in the AuditorGeneral's report by virtue of clause 54 requirements for standard accounting and auditing provisions. Division 4 relates to the summary of financial transactions of the Commonwealth Government and recognises a practice that has been carried on for some time, but which was not covered within the scope of the previous Act. 
I wish to draw the attention of the Senate to a comparison of not only the Budget figures but also the figures for this year to date as compared with last year, because as a Parliament I believe we should be concerned at the increasing cost of government. Where, as a result of misconduct or gross negligence there is a loss of public money, public property or the destruction of Commonwealth plant, equipment, et cetera, then under the Act the person responsible is now required to make good those losses. This is somewhat similar to the situation which applies in private enterprise. The Auditor-General was of the opinion that the previous provisions in the existing Act were insufficient. I do not wish to gaze at a crystal ball, but I believe that implementation under these new provisions will not be as easy as is envisaged by the Act, because blame will be difficult to apportion as a result of departmental structures. The Auditor-General has been given a major area of new responsibility, yet we find that he is being hindered in the execution of many of his duties due to staff ceilings. These are causing his Department severe embarrassment because of the insufficient numbers to perform work that is required. I therefore suggest to the Senate that to overcome such problems as staff ceilings and other such blanket measures and in order to improve accountability to this Parliament, the Auditor-General should be made an officer of the Parliament. Further, I believe it is appropriate on this occasion to call on the various accounting bodies, the directors' institutes and corporate affairs commissioners in the respective States to seek the implementation of efficiency audits for companies and trusts which borrow money from the public, or which are listed on a recognised stock exchange. Such an audit would highlight features that are hidden in a jungle of statistical figures in the modern company's report. 
I feel particularly sorry for retired people seeking a financially stable company in which to invest their life savings or lump-sum retirement benefits. Many of those people seek a reputable name in a prospectus, and having found one, they assume that the company is competently managed. Last week my attention was drawn to an instance where $25,000 was deposited with Associated Securities Ltd in such circumstances. I believe that this Bill will further enhance the important and influential role of the AuditorGeneral. It will seek information in areas of cost production and efficiency of government operations, and provide taxpayers with an improved reporting in the management of the nation's resources. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Because of the greatly changed political situation in Rhodesia and an acknowledgment that trade sanctions are causing economic crises, bringing famine to some sections of the African population and playing into the hands of communist backed guerrillas, will the Government consider the lifting of sanctions in non-military matters? 
-On behalf of  Senator Townley  I present the following petition from 41 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments "that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to:- 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Acting Clerk- Petitions have been lodged for presentation as follows: 
-In speaking in this debate on the Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Amendment Bill tonight I feel that I must correct a number of interpretations placed by my colleague,  Senator Ryan.  Undoubtedly, as a responsible senator for the Australian Capital Territory,  Senator Ryan  wishes to see a continuation of the rapid expansion which has occurred in Canberra in recent years. I submit that Canberra is now experiencing a period of consolidation which is not uncommon to other areas in Australia which, having experienced very rapid expansion, inevitably must face a period of consolidation. One only has to look at the miles of bitumen suburban roads in the new suburbs without houses. These would surely be the envy of many other cities around Australia.  (Quorum formed) 
Although I support this pay-roll tax Bill I wish to use this opportunity to draw attention to a number of disquieting features of our payroll tax laws. As a measure to assist small business in the Australian Capital Territory, the raising of the general exemption from $60,000 to $66,000, a level commensurate with that which is now existing in New South Wales, is to be commended, although I believe the Bill could have been introduced at a very much earlier stage. However, I think it is appropriate that we should examine some of the historical developments of payroll tax. In the 1941 debates when this legislation was first introduced into the Parliament we find that the purpose of introducing this revenue raising legislation was to finance child endowment. The revenue was expected to raise something like £8m to service the financing of child endowment which was estimated to cost f 13m in the first year. The scheme was modelled largely on a plan which was then operating in France. The Bill provided for a 2!£ per cent tax on wages which were paid by employers, with a few exceptions which included charities, religious organisations and hospitals. In addition there was a general exemption of £1,040 per annum that applied for each financial year. 
The arrangement was for the Commonwealth to collect this tax, to pool it and to distribute the funds to the needy- the families. At the time there were some reservations about this tax becoming permanent. Nevertheless, the Bill was introduced with some lofty ideas. The then honourable member for Richmond,  Mr Anthony,  stated that few of the taxation measures ever introduced into the House had had a worthier object, that is, the provision of funds to supplement the income of the family man. Further,  Mr Anthony  prophesied that in a few years there would be few young men and women to carry on the work of this nation and to develop Australia. In one generation- in 28 years- how things have changed. How wrong was the prophesy because, instead of having few young people to develop Australia, we now have a situation in which, in effect, we have a redundancy of young people who are seeking work opportunities that are no longer available. 
At this time of very high unemployment, I feel that it is rather intolerable that we should be legislating for a continuation of payroll tax, albeit the raising of an exemption level for the small business, commendable though that may be. I understand that 80 per cent of commerical operations in Canberra are regarded as small business. What this Parliament should be doing is to abolish payroll tax because, not only is it an inflationary tax, but it is also more importantly a tax on employment at a time when governments and oppositions in this Parliament and in the various other State spheres are seeking measures to improve employment opportunities. In fact, employers should be provided with some incentive to create employment rather than employers being penalised. 
In 1977, one Western Australian company  chairman  stated that payroll tax accounted for more than double the dividend paid to the shareholders. This emphasises the fact that payroll tax is discriminatory against labour intensive industries and bears no relationship to profitability. Therefore, it is contrary to at least two of the four major canons relating to taxation which were enunciated by Adam Smith as long ago as the eighteenth century. Those canons should be as true today as they were then. We now find that the labour intensive- what I term medium sizebusinesses are the principal targets of this iniquitous tax. These are the entities that are frustrated by difficulty of access to finance because of their private company status or because of their very highly specialised nature. These medium sized industries, particularly the manufacturing ones, are under threat and are receiving very little government attention. 
Is there any wonder, therefore, that the medium sized businesses are disappearing from the trading scene, again especially the manufacturing industries? The more prosperous of them find themselves being swallowed up by the large multinational conglomerates which, on acquiring a company, set about displacing labour by introducing sophisticated machinery. The medium sized company is faced with an array of impositions, charges, inquiries and demands that require highly paid and sophisticated middle management which the medium sized companies nowadays can ill afford because of the generally low rate of profitability. Therefore, a continuation of these medium sized businesses is becoming an increasingly difficult exercise. Further, payroll tax is paid not only on direct effort but also on indirect effort. It is a tax on total payroll, which includes holiday pay and sick pay and therefore is not altogether related to productive work which, to some extent, could offset this iniquitous expense. Therefore, is there any surprise when one reads in the Press almost daily of companies being forced to lay off people and to move increasingly to automation? 
In November 1977,  Mr Spicer,  Secretary of the Victorian Employers Federation, was quoted as saying that payroll tax was the most inequitable tax operating in Australia, acting as a disincentive to employment. In May 1977 the same body, the Victorian Employers Federation stated that 153,000 people could be employed if the money levied in payroll tax were used as wages. Many employers state that payroll tax can be regarded as the twenty-first employee on the payroll because that is its effect.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I seek leave to table a statement of payroll tax collections for the 1967-68 financial year which was prepared by the Parliamentary Library. The table shows that payroll tax collections amounted to $ 184.4m in 1967-68 but rose to $ 1,442m in 1977-78. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Jessop)-  Is leave granted? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  It is necessary to seek leave. I ask  Senator Watson  whether he seeks leave to table the document or to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
-I seek leave to have the document incorporated in  Hansard. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Watson, I suggest that at the end of your speech you seek leave to incorporate the document in  Hansard.  That will give the Minister time to examine the document. 

 The document read as follows- 

Payroll Tax Collections collected by Commonwealth and State Authorities. 

<graphic href="080232197903071_47_0.jpg"></graphic>

-The table of payroll tax collections appearing in the document shows that payroll tax provides the States and the Territories with not only a growth tax but also a substantial source of income. In fact, for most States it is second only to revenue provided by the Commonwealth. State Premiers are reluctant to give up this inequitable tax. Unfortunately, it has been used for propaganda and economic purposes by some States. Queensland boasts that its payroll tax rate is the lowest in Australia. In my State of Tasmania we found that part of the large Universal Textiles Australia Ltd company in Hobart was lured to Victoria on the basis of generous decentralisation payroll tax rebates. Such incentives cost the Victorian Government approximately $1 1.3m in 1976-77, but in the following year cost the Tasmanian economy a far greater social amount. It took only four years for the percentage rate of payroll tax to rise from 2 te per cent to 5 per cent. In addition, there have been large increases in wage levels which have resulted in higher payrolls on which this inequitable tax is based, inequitable especially from the point of view of labour-intensive, medium-sized industries because it is these rather than the capital-intensive industries that are severely penalised. 
In conclusion, I repeat my earlier request that parliamentarians should be seeking a complete elimination of payroll tax, especially in these times of high unemployment. I believe that such a step would assist to improve the job prospects for Australian workers. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
-Thank you,  Mr President,  for the privilege of being able to ask a question, my first for about 10 days; and then it was only after making representations to the party Whip about a fair allocation of questions. 
The representation was made last week, not this week. 

 -To Senator Baume. My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. Now that stricter tests are to be applied to the payment of unemployment benefit will the Minister consider relaxing the conditions of the relocation assistance scheme to aid those who are forced to move to another area for employment? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs aware that the rates of dependants' pensions paid by the Department of Veterans' Affairs have not been increased since 1964? Can the Minister give an explanation as to why this is so? Can he give an assurance that these rates will be reviewed in the context of the Budget this year? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Will the Government give consideration to varying unemployment benefit to meet the circumstances of, firstly, retrenched employees, secondly, family men genuinely seeking work and, thirdly, single folk to take account of their domestic living costs? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer Will the Government give consideration to relieving confusion about the extent and trend of unemployment in Australia by selecting one appropriate and consistently accurate monthly indicator of the level of unemployment in this country? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Defence explain the reasons for the procrastination and delay in the appointment of a Chaplain-General of the defence forces? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. Will the Government give consideration to the establishment of career information centres at all Commonwealth Employment Service offices as part of the wider role of the CES to assist young people currently at school in selecting future employment commensurate with their interests and educational standards? 
Tonight I wish to speak for a few minutes in the Senate adjournment debate. I apologise for speaking at such a late hour. I had hoped to have the opportunity to speak during the first reading stage of a Bill or possibly when the statement by the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  was presented in the Senate. I believe that it is important for us to have a debate on the economy and on economic issues. Associated with the debate on economic issues is the current position in relation to, what I term, wage-push inflation. 
If this continues and gets out of hand- and I believe the Government must take a firm stand to ensure that excessive or irresponsible wage demands are curtailed- once inflation starts and goes awry it will be very difficult to get it back again. I therefore speak with a degree of feeling on this matter. Some honourable senators may doubt the wisdom of my speaking on a topic such as management of money supply. Some may argue that money supply in relation to gross national product is declining and is a matter of insignificance. Others may say: 'Well, after all the record has been pretty good; why raise matters of concern?' Let us get back to basics. After all, money is not only the medium of exchange, the store of value and standard of value, but also its supply affects the amount of spending. In the simple analysis we should have enough money to buy at current prices all the goods and services that the economy is able to produce. In this simple analysis, in spending less there will be idle capacity, and spending more leads to higher prices but no extra goods and services. 
Two fundamental propositions arise from this. Firstly, there is a need for fine tuning. If the quantity of money is increased substantially the price is likely to fall and commodity prices will rise. We have already seen steps taken in just this last week whereby certain of the financing of the wheat was transferred to the commercial bill market. This is an indication of a step that the Government has taken to mop up what may have been regarded by many and myself as excessive liquidity in the economy. The second element is that I do not believe the Treasurer can control both the rate of interest and the quantity of money. I think attempts at this have proved unsuccessful. 
The third element that must be recognised are the international movements because Australia, as a major trading nation, cannot isolate itself from movements that are happening on the world scene. I recognise that measures must be taken in relation to the control of money supply and I believe that one measure which may have to be taken- it may not necessarily be popular- is that, to some minor extent, we may have to introduce a degree of minor flexibility in our exchange rates. I believe the time has come when essentially we should be thinking of revaluing, but more of that anon. If a responsible government does not take continuing steps, we are likely to see ad hoc stringent measures, such as the Whitlam 25 per cent across-the-board tariff cuts or the Fraser 1  Vh  per cent devaluation, which was subsequently reduced and caused considerable loss to a number of importing  companies. I know of one such situation where $200,000 was out on finance as a result of goods imported from abroad and because of this unnecessary measure $35,000 was lost overnight. I therefore give that as an example of the need for continual fine tuning rather than ad hoc stringent measures being taken too late. 
Later in my dissertation I will give some indication of the need for up-to-date indicators rather than what I shall call lag indicators and a response to those. Before doing so I wish to say that up to 1978 the Government has done a pretty good job, but I plead: do not let it go. The sacrifices have indeed been painful. 
We have to deal with a delicate economy. Probably people outside the Parliament do not realise how vulnerable the economy may become in the absence of wise economic decisions. Some of the decisions are not always popular, and certainly not necessarily popular in the Press. I believe that if we allow a situation to arise in which inflation reaches a level of 10 per cent or more, then inflation will become rampant. We have seen previously the effects of such a situation. In the interests of employment and of this nation we must not let this happen again. 
One of the problems facing Australia is that as export prices and profits are high these have largely caused a resurgence of wage demands. From the union point of view I suppose that those demands are not unreasonable. The consumers realise what is happening. For example, on the shop floor the housewife is now paying prices for beef that are four times what they were two years ago, and twice what they were 12 months ago. In such situations wage costs must be curtailed but a degree of price restraint is also needed. Let us look at some of the figures. The consumer price index was reduced from 15.1 per cent in 1975 to 7.9 per cent last year. Honourable senators may recall that the consumer price index of 7.9 per cent compared very favourably with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development figure of something like 8.5 per cent. So Australia had done remarkably well. For the first time, its consumer price index figure had fallen below that of the OECD average. 
That reduction in the consumer price index from 15.1 per cent to 7.9 per cent in four years, was accompanied by a remarkable wage unit cost when compared with productivity gain. In other words, in respect of wage unit costs, we had a productivity gain. This alone enabled Australian industry to become very much more competitive. A lot of our manufacturers find that because of this situation they are now able to compete successfully on the export market. In addition, they are able to compete much more successfully at home. Honourable senators may ask how this was achieved? It was achieved by two means, namely, monetary policy and fiscal policy. I must admit that some of the fiscal steps taken may at the time have been a little misplaced, but their long-term effects or implication are there. I will mention only one. The investment allowance was heralded as great but, in retrospect, we have seen that the 40 per cent investment allowance was expended by companies not on purchasing Australian machines but those from overseas. However, the long-term effect will be that those Australian companies should be more efficient. Australia has indeed been a lucky country. At the same time as these two situations were happening- that is one in relation to the consumer price index and the other in relation to the productivity wage ratio is terms of unit costthere was a mild depreciation of the Australian dollar. That resulted from the adjustments that took place following the major devaluations and revaluations that were necessary after the calamity of 1976. 
Let me give some figures that emphasise the importance to our international trading pattern of the depreciation of the Australian dollar in terms of world currencies. The figures are for the years 1975 to 1976 and they relate to the purchasing power of the Australian dollar in terms of special drawing rights as calculated by the International Monetary Fund on a mix of worldwide currencies. So I will be using representative figures that are used, as it were, in the balance sheets of the International Monetary Fund. In 1975 the Australian dollar bought the money equivalent of 1.074 SDRs. In 1978 it effectively purchased 0.893 SDRs. The result was that our exports were very much more competitive. Australia was indeed a lucky country. So we can say that fixing our exchange rate in relation to this selective basket of currencies operated quite successfully to the country's benefit during this period. In other words, by 1 978 the Australian inflation rate was below the figure for the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Australia outperformed OECD countries, which was very commendable. In addition we had productivity gains on unit costs. 
However, over the last six months we have seen a change. World inflation is beginning to take off. It is accelerating. This is partly because of the fairly buoyant situation in the economies of the leading industrial trading nations. It is also due to an increasing trend in oil prices which has been exacerbated by the situation in Iran. The United States had an inflation of 10 per cent for most of 1978. In February 1979 the rate had risen to 15 per cent. This is a somewhat alarming figure. Because on our basket of currencies arrangement in setting the exchange rate, we may now be in a situation where, if we are not careful, we could tie ourselves in with world inflation. While world inflation was coming down we were outperforming other countries, we were doing remarkably well. 
But I add a word of warning. As the world inflation rate is rising- and one only has to see the figure for America- we are in dilemma. We must do something about our exchange rate because I believe that the basket of currencies situation is not entirely appropriate in a situation of world inflation. We must guard against importing of world inflation, as we did once before. A certain amount of imported inflation is inevitable, but as a government we must mitigate its effects. Certain domestic restraints may postpone the effect for a while, but not for long. World market prices for beef have been quite significant for Australia. But I believe that we must be somewhat careful in looking at these world beef prices, because of what  President  Carter has done. He has opened the United States to a tremendous influx of beef to keep domestic prices down simply because- I remind  Senator Baume  of this- a presidential election is coming up and he wants to keep his cost structure down. I submit that as soon as this presidential election is over we will be in a situation in which, because of the powerful United States lobby, many of these beef markets could be lost. I therefore believe that we must examine and embark upon a policy of a very mild appreciation of our currency, rather than a manipulation through the Industries Assistance Commission by knocking off one company through tariffs. We must have a mechanism which affects the whole community. This is why I believe that there is some value in adjusting the exchange rate. 
The reason I say that the exchange rate can be appreciated mildly or to a very small degree is that Australian producers are at the moment showing not unreasonable profits on world markets; some would say that they are showing high profits. This is true both in agriculture and in manufacturing. This situation, not unnaturally, causes new wage demands and these wage demands, as I mentioned earlier by reference to the shop prices, will be fuelled by rising food prices that effectively reduce the real wage. We must be careful that the world inflation does not speed up the demand for wage rises. I believe that such a situation would endanger what was accomplished during those hard years from 1 975 to 1978. If we keep the exchange rate fixed I believe that we could get a degree of conflict between a restrictive domestic policy and world inflation. I believe that Australia should not repeat the experience of 1970 to 1972. Australia should start to appreciate its currency very gradually and, if need be, depreciate it to some extent. 
If we look at the situation of the progressive and successful countries round the world we note those countries that have followed such a policy of appreciation in the situation in which Australia is now placed. Those countries include Germany, Switzerland, Japan, Austria and the Netherlands. In fact, they include most of the European Economic Community countries. On the other hand, the countries that have followed a policy of deflation or devaluation have had severe troubles. Look at the position of the United Kingdom. Between 1968 and 1978 the United Kingdom pound was worth only about 60 per cent of its former value in terms of the United States dollar. Only in the last two years has the situation of the pound improved, and I submit that that is largely due to the oil position in the North Sea. Canada is another country which has undergone deflation. We also know the situation in Italy. 
We must indeed be careful of this cost push, because certain unions actually have a monopolistic position. They are in a position to push excessive wage demands, but unfortunately nowadays the economy is so delicately balanced that the result is further and higher unemployment. The small businessmen who are unable to pay the wages disappear; the larger business enterprises continue but with machines replacing men. In such situations unemployment continues to rise. Unfortunately, to counter this we usually find that most governments tend to increase the monetary supply to try to offset some of the unemployment situations, because governments must meet the electorate 's expectations about the unacceptably high unemployment levels; and this is one way that it may be achieved. Therefore, we must not postpone this revision of the rate of exchange because if we wait too long, if we do not take steps to control the money supply, it may be too late. 
What about capital inflows? If our currency appreciates mildly, we will attract foreign money, because foreign money tends to move to those countries where currencies tend to appreciate. In this respect I think I have already mentioned the countries of the EEC. The movements in the exchange rate must not be excessive. I believe that we must take steps to alter some of our economic indicators because as a government we must not be accused of driving the vehicle through, what I might term, the rear vision mirror. We should not only look at and react to indicators such as movements in consumer price indices, the level of unemployment and prices and the balance of payments positions, to name but a few, because I think we will find that here in Australia the consumer price index lags behind the business cycle and, as such, we may be in a position whereby we close the stable door after the horse has left. What we do need to do to overcome the situation, as businessmen do in their businesses, is to have an up-to-date position on orders and stocks and monetary supply. It is indeed true that the Confederation of Industry, in conjunction with the Bank of New South Wales, takes sample statistics from representative firms, but what is needed is a comprehensive and up-to-date figure on orders. We also need to know the up-to-date position on stocks. It is true that the Bureau of Statistics collects these figures, but by the time they are published they are woefully out of date. 
What are the alternatives to not making an alteration? It is possible that a government could shore up the economy by what I may term massive government intervention, and the more it tries to shore it up the greater that intervention is going to be. I would submit that it is going to be only a short time palliative because it will be out of step with world events. I believe that we must be careful that we do not have excessive government intervention. I will cite two figures. The Dutch Planning Bureau, as compared with the Industries Assistance Commission, operates with a number of people with academic backgrounds on a ratio of something like 1 to ten; and it performs a far wider service. I believe that the Government is justified in acting on the wages policy. It must look at having a degree of flexibility in the exchange rate to ensure that we are not in a position of allowing the inflation rate to get out of hand. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Has the Australian National Line evaluated in detail the provision of alternative vessels, such as Gordon Barton's proposed Tiger Line ships, to ply the Bass Strait run with the intention of containing or preferably reducing the substantially escalating freight costs? Further, is not the Government concerned at the prodigious growth in the freight equalisation costs which have now passed the $50m mark? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Acknowledging that alcohol is Australia's major social problem and is a cause of great distress as, for example, is witnessed at casualty departments of major public hospitals at a weekend, will the Government as a positive incentive to reducing this problem give consideration in the coming Budget to reducing the excise to 50 or 60 per cent of the amount presently payable in circumstances where the alcoholic content of beer is reduced to  2Vi  per cent? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of the number of Australian National Line bulk carriers in mothballs, will the Government insist when it is overseeing major commodity exports that a reasonable ratio of Australian owned and manned ships be used to transport these commodities? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As part of the functions of the Auditor-General in the conduct of efficiency audits, will the Auditor-General's duties include a close surveillance of extravagant and unnecessary expense resulting in a tremendous cost to the taxpayer, whereby many Government departments deliberately set out to expend fully their allocation by 30 June to ensure that their Budget allocation is not reduced in the following year? Will the Government give consideration to the implementation of an incentive to those departments effecting substantial cost savings? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Following the unfortunate events surrounding the Bank of Adelaide and the intention of the board of directors of the Bank of Adelaide to merge the bank with the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd, will the Government, through the Reserve Bank of Australia, consider issuing a licence to a new banking organisation to improve competition in and service to the business community? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. In view of the projected fuel shortages that could affect motorists in certain parts of Australia in the second half of this year, I ask the Minister a series of related questions about this problem. Firstly, is it true that the oil exploration companies have deliberately held back in bringing certain proven Australian fields into production pending further price rises? Secondly what steps has the Government taken to pressure these oil companies into opening up the Bass Strait and to accelerate their plans to bring these known oil fields into production? Thirdly, since 90 per cent of Australian produced liquefied petroleum gas is exported principally to Japan because there is an insufficient demand at present in Australia, has the Government not pressured the Australian car manufacturers into producing cars which use LPG rather than forcing concerned motorists into expensive conversion processes? 
Today we are discussing in continuation two Bills relating to the assessment and taxation of certain moneys or payments which have been derived principally through Aboriginal land. Last evening  Senator Gietzelt  referred to these royalties or what we may call royalty akin payments as not being royalties at all but rather in the nature of some sort of compensation. Today we heard an extension of that argument as if this was compensation relating to a sale of a home or home type assets. I think that this idea of a compensation treatment rather than a royalty treatment as described in the Bill is rather stretching the meaning of the word beyond what was intended. A royalty or payment is made in relation to a continuing extractive type industry. Because so much confusion has arisen within the Senate as a result of talking about State royalties, State compensations- we have heard almost first reading type speeches- I think that it is important for us to look at these two definitions. The first is in relation to compensation and the second Win relation to royalties. Firstly, if we look at the meaning of compensation, the dictionary tells us that it is to make amend, to offset a deficiency, a recompense or it is money for requisitioned property. On the other hand, a royalty is defined as a payment to a land owner by the lessee of a mine. It is a return for the privilege of working a mine. 
Royalties are paid and are assessable in the normal assessment procedures. A typical example is a person who operates a gravel pit. He pays royalties to his local council or State government. 
Royalties are paid, firstly, under the legislation to the Government and then the Government in turn pays them to the Aboriginal communities. In other words, it returns this money. I think that what the Government is doing is quite generous because it is setting aside payments derived from its royalty receipts and giving these back to the Aboriginal communities. I come back to my distinction between compensation payments and royalty payments. A royalty payment is a payment to the landowner by the lessee of a mine in return for the privilege of working it. It is due and payable whether or not the mine is profitable. It is in the nature of rent paid by a lessee for working it and for the disposal of minerals. 
I will look next at the normal taxation treatment of royalties. If royalties are received under income tax legislation they are fully assessable at the normal rates that are applicable. 

 Senator Gietzelt mentioned the case of the Utah Development Co. Utah 's profits are assessable in accordance with the normal assessment procedure and, in addition to the royalty-type payments it might make to the Queensland Government, it must pay tax on its profits at the rate of 46 per cent. In addition, if any of that money is remitted overseas, a dividend withholding tax is paid. Depending on whether the company is a branch of an overseas company or is incorporated in Australia, this further tax is payable, if we have an international agreement with the country concerned at the rate of 1 5 per cent, or if there is no international agreement relating to the country concerned, at the rate of 30 per cent. This gives some indication of the amount of tax taken by the Federal Government from these mining companies. One could argue that there is a tax rip-off on the profitability of mining operations in Australia of 46 per cent plus this further dividend and interest withholding tax that is payable to the Australian Government. Let me make the point that royalty payments under the Income Tax Assessment Act at the moment are fully assessable. 
Let me draw the honourable senator's attention to the consequences of the Whitlam Government's adopting these socalled recommendations. Not only were they anathema to the mining companies but they also resulted in many cases in mining companies almost ceasing to operate because it was not worth their while to exploit these resources. As a result, employment decreased and there were tremendous consequences for our balance of payments and the whole of the economy. 
I come to the other point. Certain royalties- I am again stretching the definition of 'royalty '- that are paid to overseas companies in respect of special-type services attract a pretty high rate of tax. It can be as high as 46 per cent and the lowest it can be is 10 per cent. Under this Bill the gross payment of royalty is only 6.4 per cent of the gross amount. Nowhere in the income tax legislation do we see any particular group, individual or company offered such a concessional rate of tax as is offered in this legislation. We heard a long dissertation on the question of compensation payments. To the extent to which these compensation payments represent income they are assessable according to the normal income tax provisions of section 26 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Tax is payable at the individual rate; or in the case of a company, again the rate is 46 per cent. 
This legislation recognises the setting of a framework for particular types of circumstances that apply to Aboriginal communities. It also recognises that in time- commencing from 1 July 1 979- these royalty payments will become quite substantial. Maybe  Senator Gietzelt  and others would like to see the mining operations not go ahead, but when these projects are undertaken they will yield substantial royalty revenue. What we are doing is setting a solid framework of income tax legislation which is based on the principle of certainty and simplicity. After all, these two principles are essential keystones of any important income tax legislation. I repeat that the legislation provides a very concessional basis of treating the payments. Therefore, the tax itself is not unreasonable. Its application is somewhat similar to the other withholding tax provisions that relate to interest and dividends. However, these other provisions relate to a secondary tax. In relation to the Aboriginals, the Government has decreed that only 20 per cent of the payment effectively will be assessable, and at the rate of 32 per cent, therefore the tax on a gross amount will be applied at the rate of 6.4 per cent. It must be conceded that this tax is very reasonable. It is not a compensation payment; it is in fact a royalty. 
This Bill is to apply in land rights situations, in the Northern Territory. In other words, it has particular, but not exclusive, application where royalties and other payments are attributable to mining on Aboriginal land. These royalty payments, having been collected by the Government and paid into consolidated Revenue, will then be paid out to Aboriginal groups or communities for the benefit of Aboriginal people. It is true that the determination of the 20 per cent element of assessability is arbitrary, but it recognises that substantial payments are made for the benefit of the community and that they are akin to local government type payments that grant certain benefits to certain members of the community. The legislation also recognises that, if this income is received by an individual, because of the certain low income levels of some Aboriginals it will not be assessable. Therefore, the legislation has an averaging effect which recognises that certain people have an income below the normal tax threshold. Although the payment is arbitrary, it is a most reasonable one and it recognises the special cases and needs of the Aboriginal people. 
The point I want to make is that it is a final tax. If the Aborigines go out to work for a mining company and derive wages, what their particular groups receive as a result of these royalty payments forms no part of the individuals' personal incomes. The royalties are not aggregated, as they would be in other areas. Again, the emphasis is on simplicity and economy in collection. The tax is payable within 21 days of the end of the month in which the royalty is paid. Again, there is no distinction between this and the other dividend withholding tax payments. At the end of the financial year there has to be a reconciliation. In fact, this reconciliation must be forwarded to the Commissioner of Taxation within two months of the end of the financial year.  Senator Gietzelt  mentioned that certain other members of the community suffer no penalty as a result of entering into tax evasion schemes. I think it is appropriate that I remind  Senator Gietzelt  that the penalty in such circumstances can be at least twice the amount that is evaded. He may not think that is a substantial penalty; but it would be, in my book. 
Reference was made to the profits of the Western Mining Corporation being colossal.  Senator Gietzelt  quoted the profit of that vast, organisation at, I believe, $8m and stated that it paid very little tax. Would  Senator Gietzelt  deny these mining companies the right to carry forward a loss in one year to another to offset their tax situation? If that were not the case, we would not really have any development of our mineral resources. He gives no recognition to the fact that in the establishment costs of any mining organisation are particularly high and those costs need to be absorbed in the income of future years. It appears that  Senator Gietzelt  submits that such losses should be no longer accepted. Mention has been made of the fact that the Government pays an investment allowance to the Western Mining Corporation. Again, that is not strictly true. What actually happens is that among the legitimate deductions that a mining company can claim is an investment allowance, which is an encouragement that is provided under legislation to enable not only mining companies but also manufacturing and other organisations to become more efficient, to invest in new plant, and to become competitive on world markets. Does the Opposition not want Australia to become competitive? Does he want Australia to slip behind and not meet its commitments? 

 Senator Gietzelt raised the question of the imposition of a resource tax. I draw the honourable senator's attention to the situation that existed in Canada following the imposition of a resource tax. It virtually decimated many areas of the mining industry. I hope that we will not tolerate the introduction of such a tax in this country, particularly as many of these mining companies are only just recovering from the traumas that they suffered under the Whitlam Government as a result of the adoption of many recommendations of the type contained in the Fitzgerald report. I would suggest that the honourable senator should look at what has happened overseas before he talks about applying these principles in Australia. 
I commend this Bill to the Senate in its present form. It is reasonable. It is discriminatory in favour of Aboriginal communities. I would submit that there are many other communities within Australia which would like such favoured treatment. Therefore, I fail to agree with  Senator Gietzelt  's amendment, which would have the effect of virtually scrapping this Bill. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that economy class passengers flying between Canberra and Melbourne are denied bar facilities including the serving of soft drinks, whereas this service is available to first class passengers? Further, can the Minister reconcile this situation with the fact that on a flight of a similar distance, from Melbourne to Launceston, such services are in fact provided to economy class passengers? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the fact that a final decision has not yet been taken by the Board of the Bank of Adelaide regarding the merger of that bank with the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited, will the Government recognise the growing dissension caused by such a proposed amalgamation and encourage, through the Reserve Bank of Australia, a new group to emerge with a banking licence, comprising the Bank of Adelaide, fringe banking groups and possibly an overseas bank, providing there is at least a 5 1 per cent Australian equity shareholding? 
by leave- In view of the very close association between the statement that has been put down and the matters that have been raised by Senators Jessop and Mulvihill, I believe it would be desirable in the interests of conservation and protection of forestry if the Senate could bring forward item 1 7 on the Notice Paper, dealing with the Tasmanian Native Forest Agreement Bill, which I believe raises a lot of the matters that have been discussed. Could that be brought forward so the Senate can concentrate its attention and discussion on this important matter rather than have item 17 left over to the Budget session? 
-I wish to speak very briefly in support of  Mr Kevin  Newman. It was unfortunate that earlier this afternoon there was some play made on the deafness of  Mr Newman,  in regard to the mishearing of a question raised in the other chamber. Those who know Kevin Newman closely know that he is partially deaf in areas where there is a loud background noise. This is due to his military involvement and service overseas. 1 believe that if members of the Opposition are aware of this partial impediment it does not do them a lot of good to make play of that fact. I wish to draw the matter to the attention of this chamber. 

 -As Senator Walsh well knows, the wool market today is indeed strong. Current prices for both wool and livestock are indicative of a continuation of that confidence, at least in the short run. Those of us who have experienced the vagaries of the wool market either from the point of view of being a producer or being a manufacturer know just how fickle this market can be. 
Debate interrupted. 
In view of the upward surge of interest in securities listed on Australian stock exchanges, will the Leader of the Government in the Senate state the current attitude of the Government with regard to foreign ownership and control of established profitable Australian companies? 
-As a relative newcomer to this Senate I wish to seek a degree of clarification as to the manner and extent to which senators can scrutinise the role, criticise the operation and evaluate the outcome of the operations of the High Court. I for one had a certain degree of sympathy with some of the predicaments in which our colleague  Senator Evans  found himself this morning in facing successive points of order. In both the executive and legislative branches of government there appear to be not unreasonable elements of checks and balances, but so far as the role of the High Court is concerned, its deliberations and actions appear to be somewhat sacrosanct. 
Seldom is it necessary for the Parliament or the community to view with concern some of the unfettered dictates of this High Court. Since it is the ultimate authority in matters of the interpretation of our Constitution, and its appellate jursidiction so far as the courts are concerned, it is a matter of real concern when we find it moving in one area, namely that of tax avoidance, to adopt a philosophy which appears to be contrary to that which is put forward by the executive and legislative branches, in other words, this Parliament, and also one that I believe is contrary to the general philosophy which prevails throughout the Australian community. 
When that happens, not only is injustice done to the community at large but also a fundamental danger exists in giving a High Court such power that it can move in a direction which, philosophically, is contrary to that which is in the best interests of the nation. At lunchtime I spoke with the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and was assured that a parliamentary draftsman has prepared a first draft of a new section 260. It is indeed important to get that new section onto the legislative books. At the moment we have a High Court that is throwing out virtually all appeals by the Commissioner of Taxation so far as tax avoidance is concerned. 
I wish to draw attention to a change in the philosophy adopted by the High Court. Honourable senators may recall the handing down of the famous Newton decision, which upheld the fundamental principles of section 260- that any scheme or arrangement, whether oral or written, was absolutely null and void so far as the Commissioner was concerned if it had the purpose or intent of avoiding or evading income tax. If I recall correctly, the present Chief Justice of the High Court was a losing advocate in that particular decision. However, with the passage of years, we have a situation in which the current High Court Chief Justice seems to be the leader in a situation in which it is almost impossible for the Commissioner of Taxation to win a case before the court in matters of tax avoidance. This, despite the fact that these tax avoidance schemes could not really be called tax minimisation schemes, despite the fact that I believe most people in the community feel that they are not commercially viable. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-Before the suspension of sitting for dinner 1 was referring to the Newton decision in 1957- a decision that was supposed at that time to sound the death knell for all tax avoiding and tax evading schemes. I drew the attention of the Senate to how the attitude of interpretation and the philosophy of the Court has changed so dramatically since that time. I think that I made reference to the fact that the losing counsel in that case unfortunately failed to be persuaded by the wisdom of his superiors. I was also referring to the difficulty in which we find ourselves when the High Court of Australia which is directed by a strong and intransigent personality, leads the country and the Court into a philosophy in tax avoiding matters that runs counter to the prevailing community philosophy. 
At the moment, the intent of the legislation in section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act appears to be rather meaningless. No one could say that Curran-type schemes are simple, commercial or mere tax minimisation schemes. On the other hand, they are highly artificial, contrived and anti-social. It will be unfortunate, though it may be necessary, if the Commissioner of Taxation has to be given additional discretionary power simply to overcome a provision in the Income Tax Assessment Act in relation to tax avoidance. I believe that these tax avoidance provisions are being protected by an elitist group. Unfortunately, all the detailed legislation which has been introduced to plug the loopholes by amending and adding substantially to particular provisions appears to be quite inadequate against a foe of highly paid lawyers and accountants who profit greatly for themselves and their clients in this arena. We are battling against overwhelming odds, especially when the umpire appears to be giving such decisions. 
I believe that this Parliament has a problem when the intention of the legislative branch of government is being thwarted by a so-called higher superior who is accountable to no one. On the other hand, all the forces of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Treasury cannot prevail against such a situation. Therefore, we find a great reduction of incoming dollars to the Treasury, resulting in situations which benefit the rich and make a mockery of the principle of taxation equity and having a progressive tax rate structure within the Act. This Act, because it is becoming very much a patchwork Act and a plugging up of loopholes, is now artificially complicated. Unfortunately, it is becoming less and less understood by those who practise tax accounting, other than these highly paid and, what I might term, artificial tax accountants. 
I mentioned earlier that the words of section 260, to the ordinary layman and I suppose to members of the Parliament, are relatively simple. But unfortunately, in their simplicity, the High Court sees ways to assist those who appear to be avoiding their obligations with respect to taxation. Section 260 provides: 
Every contract, agreement, or arrangement made or entered into, orally or in writing, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, shall so far as it has or purports to have the purpose or effect of . . . 
altering the incidence of any income tax; 
relieving any person from liability to pay any income tax or make any return: 
defeating, evading or avoiding any duty or liability imposed on any person by this Act: or 
d ) preventing the operation  of this  Act in any respect, be absolutely void, as against the Commissioner-- 
They are simple words, I contend-  or in regard to any proceeding under this Act, but without prejudice to such validity as it may have in any other respect or for any other purpose. 
Unfortunately, the meaning of this section has changed dramatically in the short space of 22 years. I regret the necessity for raising this matter about the High Court, but I believe that this is the only place in the Commonwealth of Australia where one can safely raise such matters without fear of severe penalty. I trust that when the replacement for section 260 is introduced in the autumn session it will be more than adequate to deal with what I must say is a most untenable and unsatisfactory position at present. 
-The big problem that producers face is that of having very little control over the market which they serve. In other words, they have very little control over the amount to be taken up principally by the overseas manufacturers. To a manufacturer using wool, price stability is of the utmost importance. Therefore the price support scheme is not only important to the producers of the wool here in Australia but also important to the manufacturers who take up a proportion of the Australian clip and produce it here in Australia. 
I believe that the compulsory acquisition of the Australian wool clip, despite certain stated economies in handling, is becoming increasingly under criticism not only from farmers, private wool growers and brokers but also from manufacturers. I believe that we must become increasingly cautious about recommendations which come from bureaucrats because these respected bodies, including the Australian Wool Corporation, often have vested positions and their recommendations often lead to aggrandisement of their positions which are essentially monopolistic ones. 
Since the 1950s the world production of wool has remained relatively static while the output of synthetics has expanded dramatically. Now we have an over supply situation in man-made fibres. It is a matter for some regret that wool's share of the total fibre market in the calendar year ended 1977 decreased by 1.5 percent from the previous year to be approximately one-third of the total market. Therefore it is of the utmost importance not only to growers but also to Australian governments to combine to arrest this trend, especially as Australian sheep produce 30 per cent of the world's wool and provide $1,183,129,816 in export earnings during the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The price support scheme debate this evening is part of an overall plan to assist the wool industry. Honourable senators with a knowledge of the industry will know that producers pay a wool tax at the rate of 8 per cent on the gross value at the point of sale. This tax is made up of two components- first, a 5 per cent charge which is the subject of the legislation we are discussing and, secondly, a 3 per cent component. Because of the constitutional requirement that laws imposing taxation shall deal with one subject of tax at a time, it is necessary to have a number of rating and assessment Acts. Therefore the levy of tax on shorn wool produced in Australia and sold by a broker requires an Act separate from one which covers shorn wool which is produced in Australia and subjected by a manufacturer to a process of manufacturing which requires a second Act. For example, wool that is exported requires a third Act to meet the constitutional requirement. 
Honourable senators with a knowledge of the industry will know that the first wool tax came into being on 1 July 1936. However, it was not until 1945 that the first funds were directed to research and the initial program came about as a result of profits made from the sale of sheep skins during the war. It was not until 2 September 1974 that a fund was created for meeting losses on the floor price scheme. As with so many taxes, this levy was designed to last for one season only. But it has continued on. With accumulated funds now in credit to the tune of $ 1 35.3m at the end of the 1977-78 financial year, some growers are beginning to query whether this levy- this 5 per cent component- should be reduced. These growers argue that now there should be adequate financial leverage and that an element of stringency brings about better economic management and less waste. On the other hand, perhaps the majority of growers would argue that this money should become a revolving fund, as  Senator Walsh  mentioned, when the accumulations have reached in the vicinity of $300m. 
Wool tax collections have jumped quite dramatically over the years. For example, they have risen 550 per cent from $ 13.7m to 389. 1 m in the 10-year period ended 30 June 1978. I believe that honourable senators should be made aware of the fact that, for the first time last year, interest received from the investments exceeded the net cost of the reserve price scheme and this effectively meant that all of the growers' 5 per cent contribution was added to accumulated credit funds. In other words, none of the 5 per cent grower contribution was needed for price support. 
Although wool has a great advantage as a natural fibre for attributes of quality, feel and warmth, in the harsh economic realities of today demand can be sustained only by adequate promotion and this grower plus government support falls far short of the encouragement which is given by the international synthetics industry to its own products. The Australian Government has previously indicated that it will continue to share with growers in the funding of wool promotion. For example, expenditure on wool research, promotion and market administration for 1978-79 is expected to be $72m. I believe that all honourable senators would agree on the need for research and promotion. The total Australian expenditure on research and promotion in 1977-78 was $46. 2m for promotion and $ 15.8m for research. The 5 per cent and 3 per cent levies are concurrently collected from growers on the basis of returns from wool brokers, dealers and manufacturers who must lodge a return together with their remittance within 21 days after the purchase of wool. Exporters, on the other hand, usually lodge a return after each shipment. 
For nearly 100 years, Australia has experienced difficulties in getting its raw wool into the United States of America because of the high levels of protection which have been set up in that country. But due to continuing efforts climaxing in the negotiating skills of Ministers Sinclair, Anthony, Garland and latterly our Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the United States has now agreed to a 60 per cent reduction in duty over a three-year period. This is a most significant development for the wool industry in Australia and for the marketing skills of our Ministers. I think it indicates to honourable senators that when our Ministers go overseas, they do so for a purpose and ultimately achieve their intended results. 
I want to comment also on the International Wool Secretariat. The object of wool promotion by the International Wool Secretariat and by the Australian Wool Corporation is to increase or at least to maintain demand for wool; in other words, to build on consumer preference and confidence in woollen products. 
-That is right. The role of the International Wool Secretariat, which was set up by producers in 1937 as a reaction to the grower problems which arose from the depression in the 1930s, has changed dramatically in the intervening years. As honourable senators will be aware, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has been asked to evaluate the impact of this body's work on wool promotion. This was a matter to which my colleague,  Senator Walsh,  drew attention. It is acknowledged that the International Wool Secretariat is facing a financial dilemma in maintaining its work in encouraging the use of wool, especially in the face of inflation and the appreciation of currencies in the major user countries. The International Wool Secretariat maintains a close working relationship with the textile and clothing industries. It is involved not only in advertising but also in applied research, in product and process development, in technical services- to ensure that the new technology is disseminated amongst the various user bodies involved- in commercial evaluation, in trials, in fashion prediction and in fabric design. Due to International Wool Secretariat promotion the wool mark and wool blend symbols have become household words throughout the world. 
One matter deserves a degree of condemnation, that is, the high degree of secrecy that surrounds the International Wool Secretariat's financial affairs. 1 believe that many people in our community are losing sight of wool's intrinsic qualities. Far too many parents today neglect purchasing woollen clothing, not realising that wool is more flame resistant than most other fibres. This resistance to flame has been improved as a result of the International Wool Secretariat's scientists' finding a cheap and flexible means of improving wool 's natural flame resistance by adding titonium or zirconium salts to the dye bath. This development has spread from carpets to upholstery, to protective clothing and to children's nightwear. Other improvements have occurred in permanent creasing, artificial crimping, computerised colour matching and a colour prediction service for wool dyeing. These are but a few of the valuable contributions from the Secretariat. 
But one of the areas of neglect by the Australian Wool Corporation has been the inadequate promotion of Australian manufactured woollen products from Australian-produced wool. I believe that not only the Australian Wool Corporation but also the majority of wool manufacturers have not helped sufficiently in this direction. It is to be hoped that with the introduction of the Australian wool symbol, both groups will combine to rectify this problem and thus increase the consumption of Australian wool and Australian woollen products. This will not only assist our export industry but also improve the employment prospects of thousands of Australians who are engaged in the wool and clothing textile industries. I commend the Bills to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time, and passed through their remaining stages without amendment or requests. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs aware that certain statutory corporations, including Trans-Australia Airlines, and some government departments have an unwritten policy of not employing people who have been employed previously by other statutory corporations and departments where there is a substantial long service leave entitlement? Would the Minister not agree that this is a blatant discrimination and is against Government policy on employment? Will the Minister issue written instructions that the practice be discontinued forthwith? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he recalls that  Sir Robert  Menzies refused to attend the 1966 Lagos Commonwealth Heads of Government Conference because he believed that its purpose was belligerence rather than peaceful cooperation. Does the Minister see any parallel between that situation and the coming conference in Lusaka, to be attended by the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser? Further, under what conditions will the Government now recognise the new regime in Zimbabwe-Rhodesia? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that $3 13m of foreign investors' capital funds flowed into Australia during the quarter ended 31 March 1979? Can the Minister indicate the areas to which these funds were directed? 
-On behalf of  Senator Townley  I present the following petition from 68 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. In view of the loss of overseas forward naval bases by the United States of America in recent times and the vulnerability of its island base in the north Indian Ocean, would the Government favourably support the establishment of a United States naval base in Australia? Would not such a base provide a needed economic boost to the Australian economy and to employment because of the high degree of local servicing that would be required? Finally, would not such a base strengthen Australia 's defences? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that  Sir John  Crawford is currently conducting an investigation into the nature and extent of aid to Papua New Guinea? Because of the close ties between the two countries, the importance of this assistance to the Papua New Guinea national Budget and the need to assist in the development of parliamentary democracy, and for strategic reasons, will the Minister assure this House that there will be no reduction in the overall quantum of assistance to Australia's nearest neighbour? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: ls there an upward surge of overseas interest in securities listed on Australian stock exchanges; if so, what action is proposed to protect established profitable Australian companies from foreign takeover and control. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Despite the constant urgings of the Industries Assistance Commission and the Minister for Industry and Commerce for Australian firms to become more efficient, is the Minister aware that progress is being impeded by out-of-date sections in the Income Tax Assessment Act? Further, is the Minister aware that the current provisions of the Act generously support the repair of often obsolete plant yet deny adequate flexibility in the form of depreciation allowances for new investment? Will the Minister therefore consider an amendment to allow for flexibility at the discretion of each entity to determine the useful life expectancy of each item of plant and hence its depreciation rate? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. To alleviate misconception and public discontent about alleged profitability, including the reserves of the public health funds, will the Minister give consideration to a requirement that these funds submit to their contributors or policy holders an annual statement of profit and loss together with a balance sheet? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity: In making a $900,000 development grant for a complex large-scale computer to be built by the Melbourne company Information and Graphic Systems Pty Ltd was the Minister aware, firstly, that a claim of breach of contract was taken out in 1 978 against that company; secondly, that it is alleged that the New South Wales Institute of Technology is taking legal action for alleged non-operation of a computer system installed by the company in the School of Computing Sciences; and, thirdly, that these are not isolated cases of unsatisfactory dealings with that company? Did the Minister get adequate technical advice from such a competent authority as the Division of Computing Research of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation before making such a substantial grant to that company? Is it true that a portion of the grant has been used to pay off past debts of the company rather than the full amount being applied to the development of an extremely powerful computer system? Finally, is the Minister now fully satisfied that the company has the capacity to develop such a complex system? 
-In speaking this afternoon to the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2) I recognise it to be part of the Government's revenue-raising measures in that the Budget provides for a 10 per cent increase in the charge for pharmaceuticals. As  Senator Colston  has pointed out, this is the lowest increase that has occurred. The charge will now rise from $2.50 to $2.75 as from 1 September 1979. This increase will apply to a wide range of drugs which are supplied on a doctor's prescription. However, I think there are two matters which deserve specific comment. The first is that this increase does not apply, and cannot apply, to people classified as eligible pensioners- in other words, those who hold a pensioner health benefit card- and to repatriation pensioners. These people will continue to receive free of charge their supply of pharmaceuticals. 
The second aspect that deserves comment concerns the Government's recognition that a further group in society is or could be considered to be disadvantaged. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has acknowledged this and his Department is currently examining ways of assisting such disadvantaged people with their pharmaceutical costs. I hope that amongst those classified as disadvantaged will be, for example, people with two or three children who have chronic asthma on a continuing basis, because I believe that these people deserve help. A high degree of assistance is available already- for example, the facility for doctors to bulk bill patients who are classified as disadvantaged. Most, if they are classified as disadvantaged, are able to obtain drugs free of charge through hospital outpatients departments. Furthermore, subject to a means test, sickness benefits are available to persons who are temporarily incapacitated and cannot work and who have lost revenue or income. Furthermore, a special benefit may be paid to persons who are ineligible but, as a result of unemployment or sickness, they are unable to earn a sufficient livelihood for themselves or their dependants. 
I recognise and support the extension of the pensioner health benefit card to include supporting parents and their dependants and also certain veterans of Allied forces and their dependants. This is very much a welcome move. These increases are, of course, subject to an income test. I understand that the cost to the Government this year is expected to be $8m, and that in a full year it will rise to $ 15.5m, which is a significant amount. I remind honourable senators that the proposed 10 per cent increase in cost follows, approximately, other cost increases which have occurred since the last increase was announced on 1 July 1978. One must acknowledge also that the Government, by pruning the list of pharmaceutical benefits, is attempting to save money. The resultant saving of $20m will be more than offset by expenditure on pharmaceutical benefits for eligible pensioners and their dependants, which is estimated to increase by $2 1.9m. It needs to be stated that the Commonwealth Government meets the full cost of drugs and medical prescriptions for eligible veterans and their dependants, where those drugs are supplied on a doctor's prescription. 
Today I organised a telephone ring-around amongst a number of pharmacists in order to obtain their reaction to this increase. There has been surprisingly little customer reaction to it. However, one chemist indicated that he believed that some degree of disability could result where a number of children were chronically ill over a period. I think that the medical profession has a responsibility not to issue an excessive number of prescriptions when fewer, or perhaps only one would suffice. This is important because some doctors have a tendency to issue what I believe to be an excessive number of prescriptions in certain cases where it is not necessary. That, of course, is purely a matter of opinion or judgment. 
Associated with the Bill has been an increase in the means test applied to the pensioner health benefits. The figure was last revised in 1973, and I am rather pleased that for a single person it has now been increased from $33 to $40 a week, and for married couples from $57.50 to $68 a week. I believe that, administratively, it would have been possible to bring forward the date of application somewhat from 1 November. Nevertheless, the estimated cost of the service will rise to about $23m in a full year. In view of the concessions that have been granted, and the undertakings that the Government nas given in relation to disadvantaged people, I believe that this is not an unreasonable Bill. As such, it has my support. 
Following the discussion last week which centred largely on the drug problem, my conscience led me to examine the wider role of the disadvantaged in our community. I believe that the Senate is an appropriate chamber or forum in which to make such a study. The disadvantaged in our society are those who are regarded as being outside the community, people such as alcoholics, the homeless, the unemployed, the aged, the deserted wives and the mentally and physically handicapped. Unfortunately, a discussion of this nature usually tends to degenerate into little more than a theoretical abstraction, and I hope that my contribution tonight will not fall into that category. Such discussions often sound wonderful to those listening and some feel inspired to act, to help the disadvantaged. Regrettably, their enthusiasm is generally short lived. Rarely does such a discussion come to terms with the real problem. Frequently it is insubstantial, and no suitable solution is found. I hope that my talk tonight will not fall into this category of being just another superficial discussion, one that will be glossed over and forgotten. Rather I hope to offer some tangible solution. 
Disadvantaged people all share the status of being outcast, of being placed outside the society in which they live. They are not there solely due to economic reasons. In fact, there are other factors. If that were not so the solution could be quite simply found by the Government providing an equitable redistribution of income. All would then share equally in the resources of their country. Unfortunately, as I have said, this is not the case. There would still be those who would not be able to pursue the future of their choice, to live their lives as they would wish. I cite an example from Russia, where a reasonably equitable distribution of income has been achieved. Even in that society there is a disadvantaged community which includes religious groups and non-Russian residents. These people are denied advancement in Russian society and therefore are to be classified as disadvantaged. I repeat, not always can one argue logically that economic circumstances are such as to cause a person to be called disadvantaged. However, I believe that that is the major contributing element. Generally, it is those who do not fit into what I call the changing values or mould who become disadvantaged. Many Australians have become so self-centred that they have not time to think of other people. Unfortunately, I am one who believes that the sins of omission are often far greater than those of commission. The centre of the city from which I come has a relatively small population but when one includes the outlying suburbs its population rises to some 84,000. 1 believe this could be regarded as typical of many other towns in Australia. Hence I think that my comments tonight might be regarded as a microcosm of what is generally reflected in Australian society. I think two illustrations might help to prove my argument. Let us look firstly at one of them. I take the case of a widow, who is one of 3,000 people in Tasmania waiting for a Department of Housing home. This widow, with her two children, lives in a three bedroom house that the landlord has allowed to fall into a terrible state of disrepair. Not only is it draughty but also it is vermin infested and has only a makeshift kitchen. This widow was forced to rent this house as there was not other accommodation available to her. But when she complained to the landlord, he retaliated by threatening to raise the rent. 
The second example covers a contentious issue, but a service that is needed in our city. I refer to the Launceston Women's Shelter. I think every honourable senator would be aware of the valuable service that these shelters offer. However, the very fact that these shelters exist indicates just how uncaring people have become today. When a women has to go to one of these shelters it implies that she has nowhere else to go- no friends, no neighbour, not even a relative close enough to turn to or to trust in, or from whom she can find comfort and assistance. Since this shelter was formed four years ago over 1 ,250 women and children have had cause to use it. 
This assistance has not been appreciated by all within the community, particularly those in the near neighbourhood, because they complain that the peripheral activity of such an organisation attracts undesirables, for example irate husbands pursuing their wives. Neighbouring residents have requested that this shelter be shifted to an inner city area, despite the service that it provides. 
Obviously we all agree that these residences should not be subject to abuse from these men who are often in an inebriated state; nor should children be terrorised when answering the door to these agitated men. I would not like honourable senators to think I am suggesting that anybody should have to tolerate such a situation. The point I am making is that these residents are more concerned for themselves than they are for these desperate women who are seeking a refuge. 
Unfortunately, there have also been incidents when political bodies have used the disadvantaged in our society for their own point-scoring, and I must admit with some guilt that both major parties have been party to this. There is also the disregard for immigrants or potential immigrants to this country. The majority of letters to the local newspaper demand, for example, that Australia should ignore the plight of the Vietnamese refugees. 'We do not have enough jobs for Australians', they claim. I think we should really commend the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the Honourable Michael MacKellar, and the Victorian State Minister for Housing and Youth, Sport and Recreation,  Mr Brian  Dixon, as both of these men have displayed a very humane and sensible attitude towards immigrants, despite strong opposition from the extreme poltical wings of their parties. Both Ministers have called for an increase in the intake of Vietnamese refugees in to Australia.  Mr Dixon  has advocated a doubling of the present intake. Their arguments are not always based on humanitarian grounds; they are based also on economic grounds, that the increase would cause an increase in the demand for employment opportunities to such an extent, they believe, that the present unemployment situation would be alleviated. I quote the remarks of  Mr MacKellar  which appeared in the  Australian  on 17 August 1979. He said: 
It would be a tragedy if Australia turned in upon itself as an isolationist continent, sitting on its resources like a dog guarding its bones, refusing to share, denying population growth and being timid about achieving the undoubted potential there is for building a prosperous, free and great nation. 
I hope that the attitude of these two men could be absorbed to some extent in the rest of our community and that our migration policy could be based more on humanitarian grounds than, as in the past, on economic or defence criteria. 
Unemployment has unleashed its own set of problems. I would like the Senate to consider the case of youngsters coming from the country into our cities with the hope of finding employment. Launceston alone has 2,025 people unemployed, and of those 143 are school leavers. Last month only 57 jobs were found. These boys coming in from the country districts are trapped into a most unpleasant situation. They suddenly find themselves away from their families. They cannot find gainful employment. They cannot really return home if they wish and at the same time retain their unemployment benefits. Yet how many of the residents of our town open their homes to these boys and girls? It is ironic that unemployment, which for so long has been a dilemma of the Third World or the emerging countries, is now part of our so-called advanced society. This presents us with major problems. At the moment we appear to be unable to cope as well as those in developing countries. 
I believe that part of the solution to this problem would be to raise the level at which people can earn incomes before losing unemployment benefits. This would only be an expedient, but it could certainly assist. I believe that the figures of $3 for those under 18 and $6 for those over 18 are insufficient, and that if the level were raised to $20 with a phasing-out period we would offer greater encouragement for employers to take on people who are now out of work. It is very hard for one to go from the position of being unemployed straight into a job. It is far easier to go from a position of being in a job into another job. What these people really need is work experience. My experience has been that employers are often reluctant to take on unknown quantities. But, as a temporary expedient, if these youngsters could find a situation where they could be accepted into part-time work, from there, after they had gained experience and if they showed interest, the employer would engage them on a full-time basis. The benefit of such a scheme would be that part-time work inevitably would lead to full-time employment. 
Let me now go to another situation of disadvantage in our community. This refers to the aged. Too many families nowadays are overanxious to put their close relatives, or even their own mothers and fathers, into homes for the aged. They do not want an intrusion or an interruption to their own lives. This contrasts very much with my recent experience in Papua New Guinea. Here, in this developing country, quite a number of people with whom I spoke, who were in quite senior positions in government and in private enterprise, in many cases were prepared to sacrifice, to give up their jobs, to go back to the village and live the village way of life if mother or father demanded it or if mother and father were sick. How does this contrast with our own selfish Western culture? How many of us give up our materialistic possessions, go back to mother and father and look after them in their time of need, when they are less in a position to look after themselves? I believe that these few examples that I have given tonight do tend to typify the general attitude of Australians, unfortunately, as being uncaring and unsympathetic. The following appeared in a French newspaper in 1870: 
Moral indifference is the malady of the cultivated classes. 
I believe this is equally true and could be printed in every Australian newspaper today. Recognising that the disadvantaged are not singled out solely because of economic reasons and that their disadvantage results from members of society regarding them as outcasts, a solution could be to integrate them into society, to enable them to have the same rights and freedoms as everyone else. To counteract this attitude, we must not treat them as outcasts. These cultivated classes of Australia have become too materialistic. There are immense pressures by current moral values for us to keep up with the Joneses. We all recognise the importance of buying that yacht and taking that overseas trip. In this regard, children have become unimportant. This has been manifested by the declining birth rate and the increase in abortions. We deceive ourselves that we cannot afford to enjoy the pleasures of children if we wish to maintain a high standard of living and achieve an even higher level. I think that it is well for us to remember this in the International Year of the Child. 
In surrounding ourselves with beautiful objects, we have become rather insular. We are nothing more than empty shells because we have nothing more to give to society and we tend to become spiritually and morally void. The empty pews in the established churches on a Sunday are testimony to this. As T. S. Eliot has said: 'We are now hollow men'. The paradox is that the more we dwell on our own security the less secure we ourselves become. In caring for others, we become less conscious of the need for our own security. In caring about the needy, we do tend to gain an inner strength that needs no materialistic foundation for support. Therefore, a massive campaign is needed to be launched to alert people's minds to the apathy, to make people realise the invidiousness of their neglect and to foster a more caring and compassionate attitude within our society. This conscience raising campaign could be initiated along the lines similar to the very successful 'Life. Be in it', 'Have A Go', Project Australia or the International Year of the Child campaigns. All these efforts have been aimed at persuading people to realise that all is not right with our society, that specific problems do exist. 
With respect to the International Year of the Child, advertisers prompted people to visualise children as special people, with their own unique problems, needing to be treated in a specific manner. When the 'Life. Be in it' campaign began, most of us could see a little bit of the Norm lurking beneath our paunches. A 'care about your neighbour' campaign could aim at rectifying, as H. G. Wells described it in  The Research Magnificent:  'The inertia, the indifference, the insubordination and instinctive hostility of the mass of mankind'. It could be incorporated into Project Australia. People do need to become aware of their cold-hearted attitude, their scorning airs of superiority. This awareness should make them despise such affectations. Instead, they must realise their nonsuperiority and learn warmth and compassion for other people. There are far too many walls in our society. These divisions need to be broken down before Australia again can progress. Fortunately, there are people who care. I have recently received representations from clergy in Tasmania regarding many of the matters that 1 have just outlined. Underlying their letters is the thought, however, that for the disadvantaged to be helped, the attitude of the general public does need to be changed. As one minister wrote: 
Many are so intimidated by the conservative members of their respective congregations that they are afraid to speak out about issues affecting our way of life. 
Let us hope that we, in a like manner, few as we be in the chamber at this present time, are not intimidated by the constitutuents in our electorates, because I believe that it is up to us to bring about a changed attitude in our society. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the great mass of information referred to in the Federal Budget, which at present follows no recognisable sequence, will the Treasurer give consideration to providing a comprehensive index to the Budget? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity a question without notice concerning Information and Graphic Systems Pty Ltd  (Hansard,  30 August 1979, page 425). 

 -Until Senator Wriedt rose I had intended to say that the honourable senators who were addressing themselves to this Bill were almost unanimous in their consent to it. On the other hand, my colleague  Senator Wriedt  has expressed agreement with its general tenor. The Tasmanian Native Foresty Agreement Bill is particularly important to Tasmania because forests cover 43 per cent of the State's land mass, compared with less than 6 per cent of forest area for Australia as a whole. These forests provide the State with more than 20 per cent of its primary production revenue. The industry, and its associated activities, employs in excess of 10,000 people. It provides 75 per cent of Australia's pulp and contributes 29 per cent of Australia's forest exports. These few but important statistics indicate the significance of the industry to the economy of the island. Therefore it is very worthy of the proposed transfer to Tasmania of the CSIRO Division of Forest Research. I welcome the Government's consideration of that matter, support the initiative and hope that such a transfer can be made expeditiously. At the same time, I would welcome the re-establishment in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation of the Division of Forest Products. I trust that it too can be located in Tasmania. 
The Australian Government has a number of responsibilities in relation to forestry. These include education, research, control of the exportation of wood chips, and financial assistance to the States in regard to softwood forestry plantings. The Bill is quite unique in that it is the first piece of legislation which has given assistance to any State in respect of native forests. It is also significant because it is the first tangible evidence, in legislative form, of the Callaghan 10-point plan for Tasmania. The Budget pronouncements give further proof of the special recognition by the Commonwealth of the difficulties that are faced in Tasmania. 
This forestry project, as such, would not on its own be of momentous value to the State. I trust that it is merely the beginning of a co-operative, co-ordinated approach to forestry between the Commonwealth on the one hand and the States on the other. I agree that it could have been a better agreement. For example, although the repayment period of the loan is not unreasonable, I acknowledge that the method of calculating the interest falls far short of what was provided under the softwood forestry agreement. Therefore, if the forthcoming Callaghan proposals, in legislative form, are to have a major impact on the State, to offset the acknowledged disadvantages that it suffers when compared with the rest of Australia, it would be desirable, if practicable, to have a greater degree of Commonwealth substance in future agreements. If the State does not put forward major proposals to the Commonwealth, one can hardly blame the Commonwealth for waiting for such projects to come to hand. However, as Tasmanians, I think we must show a sense of responsibility to ensure that schemes put before this chamber have an economic or social basis. 
The 2,750 hectares of eucalypt plantation on former farmland together with a thinning of blackwood regeneration in the north west, the reafforestation, and the planting of eucalypt forests along the west coast region with $ 136,000 in loan funds in real terms on a dollar for dollar basis with the State for each of five years. This could not be considered an imaginative or a large project. I feel that many other schemes of a similar nature will follow provided that we can get a better communication process between the Federal Government, the Tasmanian Premier and his Ministers. I acknowledge that there were no payments last year due to the delay in passing the Bill through this Senate and that payments will commence in 1979-80 with a sum of $272,000. Also,  Mr Howard  in his Budget Speech stated that further loan funds of $100,000 per year for the next four years on a dollar for dollar basis would be made to the State to establish eucalypt plantations on marginal farmland and for the purchase of such farmland. I mention that the wood chip industry is increasingly important and significant to the State. The wood chip industry involves the felling of the trees and a mechanical reduction of the wood to a chip the size of something between a 20c and a 50c coin. The first commercial shipment of chips from Australia took place from Eden in New South Wales in 1970. This marked the birth of the wood chip industry in Australia. Although it has brought benefits it has also brought a number of fundamental environmental problems. Since that time we have seen three company operations established in Tasmania; one on the east coast at Triabunna and the other two on the River Tamar in the north of the State. There is a further project in Western Australia and this draws its supplies from Manjimup. The chips are taken from all five areas in specially built and owned Japanese bulk carriers. Whilst the operation is of tremendous commercial value- I emphasise the word tremendous- to the Japanese and to the wood chip companies, the primary producer here in Australia is getting a mere pittance in royalty payment. Incidentally, I believe that the Eden project is wholly Japanese owned. As an example of the rip-off that is going on not only with the Japanese but also with the major wood chip companies, I cite a recent example from my State of Tasmania where Tasmanian Pulp and Forest Holdings has been the subject of a takeover. A rival company offered $15m to this company which, incidentally, has been operating for approximately 10 years. Further investigations showed that that valuation was slightly unrealistic. Within approximately a fortnight a revised offer of $25m was made. Another rival company, Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd then entered the bidding fray. The final settlement, I believe, was over $30m which was twice the initial offer price. This gives some indication of the rate of profitability within this industry. This must be contrasted with the very low returns that are being paid to the primary producers who sell their logs to these wood-chip companies. 
I also remind honourable senators that the Japanese are beginning to tighten the screws. At least one company has given notice to the producers on the quality of the chips, refusing to take any dry timber, and it does not want any rot in the logs. As honourable senators will know, if they are timber men, there is often a lot of rot in eucalypt timber. I therefore believe that we need to investigate at a Federal level the Japanese supply situation and provide the State forest services with adequate information on a price structure. Then if prices allow, which I believe they will, future export licences which are governed by the Commonwealth could contain conditions for increased royalty payments, especially to the private land owners. During the early establishment days of this chip industry, the primary producers were assured that the small limb logs and what is known as billet wood could be utilised and that mobile forest chippers would make it possible to convert what is known as the limb wood into the chips. This type of operation has proved uneconomic and the mobile forest chipping operations unfortunately have now ceased. The wood chip companies, therefore, are not getting rid of what we might term the so-called rubbish or the small diameter timber as promised in the earlier days. On the other hand, there is continued pressure by these companies for the replacement of timber. 
The quality of the timber which is extracted from some parts of the State for the chipping is of an exceptionally high quality. This leaves the local sawmilling companies and the environmentalists somewhat annoyed, for the wood chip operators are forcing the traditional timber milling companies, particularly the smaller operators, into the more remote areas because of scarcity of material from their traditional sources of supply, thereby adding greatly to this cost at a time of economic downturn for the timber industry. I reiterate the point that the major Tasmanian sawmilling companies have been rather critical of the generous forest concessions that have been legislated to the pulp and paper combines which are capital intensive and publicly owned. The future State concessions must ensure that there is a satisfactory balance between the sawmilling and the forest company interests, because I believe that forests which are properly managed are a renewable resource. Within a relatively short space of time they can again provide almost all the forest benefits, particularly the public owned forest areas of the wood chip concessions which are not destroyed during harvesting but are subsequently regenerated and protected from fire. This is not the case, unfortunately, with most privately owned forests. 
The granting of long term pulp wood- rights in Tasmania is conditional upon the construction of pulp mills, if feasibility studies justify the projects. It is now, unfortunately, abundantly clear that these pulp mills for export pulp are not an economic proposition, certainly in the short to the medium term. The pulp mills often provide no more employment than woodchip export plants. What is known as the Weseley Vale Act is designed to encourage the establishment of not only pulp mills but also paper mills because it is the paper mills that are the bigger employers of labour. This is what we should be emphasising now with high unemployment. Ultimate power rests with the Commonwealth, which can refuse to grant an export approval for woodchips. On the other hand, the State governments control and allocate publicly owned areas to the woodchip companies. The conservationists are concerned that there are few State government controls over private forests. 
However, I understand that preliminary investigations are taking place in Tasmania into what is known as a Forest practices Act, which will provide minimum standards for all forest operations such as logging and regeneration in order to protect the forests and forest owners. I believe that it is most appropriate that Tasmania should take this positive and forward step to protect its forests and forest based industries to ensure that there is proper management of this most important resource. Firstly, the returns to primary producers must be improved to ensure that there is an adequate interest in the replanting and regeneration of trees. At the moment the extraction rates far exceed regeneration. Secondly, as I have mentioned, there must be a tighter environmental control and a higher density regrowth requirement by the Commonwealth when it assesses the regeneration requirements to meet the export licence needs; in other words, the standards demanded by the Commonwealth are not high enough in relation to regeneration density requirements. Thirdly, there must be realistic government royalties which should at least offset relevant Forestry Commission costs. It is a matter of some concern to Tasmania that the proposed Tasmanian inquiry on forestry royalties was quashed under pressure from vested interests. Fourthly, I believe there is a need for the setting up of a diploma in forestry at the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education. I believe it could be incorporated as part of the Callaghan plan for Tasmania. This would ensure that people who entered the industry had skills appropriate for proper use with forest resources. The need is there, the numbers warrant such a course and all would be aware of the long term benefits that would result. 
Lastly, the tax laws need to be changed to encourage primary producers to adopt proper management practices. In Tasmania especially, because of the importance of forestry operations to the State, the economy is unduly penalised by the outmoded Income Tax Assessment Act under which we are operating at the moment. The State government has followed very closely the recommendations of an excellent report prepared by Merv Everett, Q.C., and  Dr Gentle  from New South Wales. The State government set up a private forestry division within the Forestry Commission. This private forestry division advises private forest owners on proper management techniques in relation to their forests. On the other hand, the Commonwealth has been quite slow in recommending some of the ideas of  Mr Everett  and  Dr Gentle,  and other interested parties, on taxation matters in relation to forestry. 
I believe that many of the recommendations of  Dr Gentle  and  Mr Everett  do not go far enough to offset the worst effect of woodchip operations. Let me give honourable senators an example of the current situation, which I think will emphasise my point. Under current legislation, if a farmer sells timber to a milling company he pays tax on a royalty basis; in other words, it is included in his normal assessable income under section 26. On the other hand, the selling of a whole area or block to a woodchip operator makes the proceeds tax free, or a capital gain. Here is the rub. As soon as a private farmer employs a forest consultant, implements a plan or even takes advice from this newly created private forestry division of the Forestry Commission, he is technically operating a business of forest management and can be assessed on the whole of the proceeds. Therefore, he pays tax in one year on the total proceeds of the harvesting of a crop which, in fact, takes from 40 years to 60 years to produce. This is indeed an inequitable situation and one under which farmers' accountants say to beware of introducing a forest plan, proper management practices or taking advice from the private forestry division of the Forestry Commission because what otherwise would be a capital receipt would suddenly become fully assessable. Honourable senators know what an astute farmer would do- he would sell the bush block and get a capital profit. Unfortunately, there is no proper planning. 
I have referred to the revenue side. I now wish to give honourable senators an example on the expenditure side because here there is a further complication. There are numerous cases which show that people practising silviculture, which is the business of harvesting and planting trees in high density areas, are placed in a situation whereby their expenses are not always deductible in the year in which they are incurred, but are allowed by the Taxation Office over a 10-year period on an equal instalment basis. This is no way to attract farmers into the process of regenerating and replanting for silviculture. As I have mentioned in this chamber on previous occasions, and from the examples that I have given just now, honourable senators must agree that further amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act are desirable, or preferably a special division, should be inserted into the Act specifically to cover this growing and important industry of forestry operations to prevent the exploitation of our forests, to protect Commonwealth revenue, to legislate for accepted accounting procedures, and also to promote a renewable resource. 
At least one important submission on taxation reform in this area has already been shelved. The Government of Tasmania and the Australian Forest Development Institute have almost completed a submission on formulation of a tax plan in relation to forestry. I believe that this will be submitted to the Federal Government very shortly. Regrettably, as I mentioned earlier, extraction rates do exceed the rate of replacement of trees. In addition, I believe that society should be made aware not only of the monetary but also of the non-monetary impacts of forests. Certainly the aesthetic qualities of a forest are greatly reduced after clearing. But with the employment of trained forest officers, some of the worst effects of the problem can be alleviated. I will cite one example: Bush areas immediately beside a road can be preserved and access to the cleared area can be provided by means of a winding subsidiary road to minimise the view of the destruction to passing tourists or motorists. 
Some major companies are at last beginning to recognise some problems in relation to forestry and are spending money to alleviate some of the worst effects. I think that I should name these companies so as to encourage others in the spending of money in this area. For example, Alcoa of Australia Ltd spends $3m annually on forest rehabilitation, or $10,000 for every hectare of land cleared and mined every year. This indicates that a lot of money is involved. Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd has announced recently that it will increase its royalty payments by approximately 25 per cent upon farmers agreeing to enter into a plan to regenerate private forests on their land. In other words, these private landowners must be willing to regenerate their forests with professional and financial help from the company. The objective is to provide a further welcome incentive for private landowners to regenerate their forest areas unless the land is needed for agriculture. I believe that this is the only scheme of its type operating in Australia, and it is most welcome. 
It is a fact that forests hold and draw mist. Trees purify the atmosphere around a city because they take in some of the carbon dioxide. Trees on hilltops encourage precipitation. Animal life is abundant in the native forest areas. Softwood forests, though necessary, are relatively barren and lifeless in comparison with our native forests which are the natural sanctuaries of fauna and flora. Therefore, the emphasis on the native eucalyptus species in this Bill pleases me tremendously. Certain types of Australian eucalypt now are facing the serious problem of dieback. Gumtrees in sparsely scattered areas are suffering from a fungal disease which, although present since the early days of settlement, is now becoming a major problem. Of course there are advantages to Tasmania in the woodchip operation. The industry has assisted markedly the rehabilitation of the Tasmanian railways. The woodchip operations have required an upgrading of the railway lines. Fortunately, this increased use of rail transport has taken many timber trucks off our roads and the cargo onto rail and this is to be welcomed. Further, woodchip operators have provided a road network with improved access to forest areas. Ultimately, I believe that this will result in better fire protection in our rural areas. 
Approximately 66 per cent of the publicly owned forests are covered by what is known as woodchip concessions over which the State Government has control. I come back to the point I made earlier: The inadequate returns to primary producers raise a number of fundamental questions. Will the farmers be prepared to replace their forests with no assurance of an adequate financial return? On the other hand, will farmers, being independent people, accept being dictated to by government foresters who essentially are under political control? I agree with my friend,  Dr Maurice  Clark, a not impractical conservationist and former  chairman  of the forestry division of the Tasmanian Farmers Federation, who said: 
With inadequate royalties and government controls, farmers may decide it is better business to thin their forests, leave regeneration to providence, and in the meantime manage to carry more stock. 
In conclusion, I urge honourable senators to pressure their respective parties and constituents to ensure that the necessary legislation is passed to encourage more Australians to become more forestry conscious and to encourage the growth of trees on this barren continent. Forest areas cover only 430,670 square kilometres of Australia's 7,682,300 square kilometres. Less than 6 per cent of the continent is covered with forests. Up until now there has been far too little attention given to reafforestation, particularly in developing suitable species for the low rainfall areas. I believe that much more work should be done by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to overcome this problem and to cover our barren continent with a greater range of trees. It was gratifying to note that earlier this year at least one Tasmanian operator- Tasmanian Pulp and Forest Holdings Ltd, which has now been taken over by Australian Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd- donated more than 1 ,000 young gum trees as part of a State celebration for World Forestry Day. I hope that other companies will follow suit. I commend the Tasmanian Native Forestry Agreement Bill 1 979 to the Senate as a small beginning to a very important project, improving native forests, not only in Tasmania but throughout Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Under section 78 of the Income Tax Assessment Act the Government recognises the worth of philanthropic bodies and educational institutions and allows taxpayers a deduction for donations and gifts exceeding $2 to the named bodies. Will the Government consider adding to this list the Child Accident Prevention Foundation of Australia as recommended by  Mr Justice  Meares? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I understand that  Dr Peter  Clyne, a tax avoidance advocate, has finally made certain arrangements with the Australian Taxation Office. Does that mean that  Dr Clyne  is now lodging full and complete returns, as required under the Income Tax Assessment Act, for the period to 30 June 1 979? Further, what steps has the Government taken to close the loopholes which  Dr Clyne  had advocated be used? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. The index of material inputs into the manufacturing sector has recently shown an unprecedented upward movement which, because of the imbalanced weighting of the index, is not representative of a wide range of manufacturing activities in Australia. Since the inadequacy of the index is due mainly to unduly heavy weighting of certain items- for example, beef prices- will the Minister consider reviewing and redrafting this index so that a more accurate description of manufacturing material inputs will be available? 
Government senators- Good question! 
-On behalf of the Government I continue this debate on a matter of public importance, concerning the alleged increasing cost of consumer credit, which was raised by Opposition  Senator Gietzelt.  I must state initially that at first I believed that  Senator Gietzelt  must have misread this matter of public importance as his contribution was directed largely to indicating a recognition of the extensive use of and growth in consumer credit. I remind the participants in this debate and those people listening to the debate that it concerns an alleged increase in the cost of consumer credit. I contend that, rather than there having been an increase in the cost of consumer credit, in effect in the period with which I will deal there has been a significant decrease in the cost of consumer credit. Perhaps it was  Senator Gietzelt  's understanding, on investigation, that interest rates and charges had actually decreased and not increased that resulted in his change of emphasis and his getting away from a recognition of the fact that interest rates have actually fallen. 
I think it is necessary to define the parameters within which this debate will be conducted. One can look at a situation in the very long term, the medium term, or the short term. I think what is relevant today is a comparison of the situation in recent past with the present situation. In making that comparison I will examine a couple of periods. But, before doing so, let me say that I believe that we should recognise the importance of credit in the community. The growing importance of credit in the community is a recognition of a change in the nature of trading. For example, there has been a significant movement towards what we might term the cash discount stores. Many people listening today would undoubtedly regret the passing of the local corner grocery store, where once upon a time a family was able to run up credit or, in cases of necessity such as illness, payment could be deferred. But we have a new system emerging. People want cheaper goods. In return for these cheaper goods, they are going to the cash discount store and deserting the traditional grocery store which previously provided the credit. The reason for the change is that the goods are very much cheaper, and that is because inevitably anybody who extends credit must add a cost into the prices of those goods and services. Another regrettable trend from the point of view of people of 20 or more years ago may be the movement from what is termed the traditional overdraft system; but this has accompanied and been made necessary by the change in trading conditions, in what people really want. Nowadays a very much wider form of finance is available to the consuming public, and many of these avenues are specifically tailored or directed to the needs and requirements of particular consumers. 
I think it is relevant, in discussing this matter of public importance, to look at two things: Firstly, a comparison between the situation as at 30 June this year and the situation as at 30 June last year; and, secondly, a comparison between the situation when the Labor Government was in power during 1975 and the situation in mid- 1979, when we have a Liberal-National Country Party coalition Government which has effective control and management of the Australian economy. As I mentioned earlier, the first of these sets of statistics will recognise the growing use and acceptability of consumer credit. I believe that this is something that the Opposition has failed to recognise. I believe that the second set of statistics will display that the Opposition is quite incorrect in its assertion that the cost of consumer credit is increasing. 
Let me quote a few statistics, some of which were supplied earlier by my leader,  Senator Carrick.  One of the traditional methods of home finance has been that provided by building societies. Although rates do vary from State to State and institution to institution, I was able to obtain from the local manager of a building society in Tasmania, which I believe to be a large and representative building society with a sound reputation, some figures from which I discovered that in October 1975 that society's lending rate was 1 1 per cent. The current rate- the comparable figure- is 10% per cent. So there has been a decrease. If we look at the personal loans rate offered by trading banks, we find a decrease in the flat rate from 8.25 per cent in late 1975 to 7.75 per cent in 1979. In the rate on savings bank new mortgages loans we find a decrease; in fact, it is down by two percentage points. In the case of finance companies- this is an area where there is an alleged rake-off- the interest rate has actually moved down by 1  lh  per cent on a representative range. For retailer credit there has always been a relatively high interest charge. There has been no movement, either upward or downward, in that rate. So far as Bankcard is concerned- it has been very much maligned- the interest rate has not changed at all. 
-In fact, what is actually happening is that the Opposition is charging that there has been an increase in the cost of consumer credit. What I am stating, in effect, is that these figures all show that the Opposition is wrong in its assertion that there has been an increase in the cost of credit. During the relevant period there has been a decrease in the cost of credit. 
Let us define our terms. Consumer credit is a relationship between a consumer and a credit provider, whether the credit is provided directly by the business or by an agency. It is true that there has been a substantial growth in financial institutions over the last 20 years. Firstly, let me state the Government's attitude towards interest. After all, it is the interest rate prevailing in the community that determines the cost of credit to the consumer, and that is something many people lose sight of. The Government's attitude towards interest is relevant. In the recent Budget we note the emphasis on its desire to lower the inflation rate and to contain public sector borrowing. Therefore, the Government's antiinflationary policies are squarely directed towards an economic climate in which, in the longer period, interest rates will be susceptible to a fall; but what we must recognise is that interest rates must always reflect the reality of the market situation. 
Whilst the Government's anti-inflationary policies are clearly directed towards an economic climate in which in the long term, other things being equal, interest rates should fall, it must be recognised that Australia, as an international trading nation, cannot isolate itself entirely from world influences, and those world influences include a substantial upward movement in interest rates. For example, interest rates in the United States between December 1975 and July 1979 increased by four percentage points, and since then have skyrocketed. In view of what is happening in the rest of the world, it is therefore of fundamental importance that Australia and this Government keep a tight rein on the economy in order to keep interest rates down and to keep the economy moving. The Government's policy has been endorsed by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and other countries which have inflation under control. This policy cannot be overemphasised. 
I believe that the current rates of interest are entirely justifiable, because they- are a recognition of what is paid by the financial institutions to people who lend them money. If we try to hold interest rates down artifically, there is the problem that there could be an increase in monetary supply which could lead to an increase in inflation. The profitability of a financial institution depends on the interest rates offered on borrowings and charged on lendings. The returns on the funds employed are not excessive and are not a rip-off, as has been claimed by many members of the Opposition. Whilst the interest rates on small loans may appear to be high, we have to recognise the incurred costs of financial institutions. On some small loans the charges made do not always cover the costs of handling. I have to dispute the assertion made by  Senator Tate  when he referred to exorbitant profits. The reality of the situation at present is that because of these costs not all banks are yet in a profit situation as a result of Bankcard, but that a profit trend is starting to emerge. 
The growing recognition of the increasing use of credit is shown by the fact that in the last year the growth in personal loans by trading banks increased by 29 per cent. The assertion that banks are pushing customers to Bankcard is not completely accurate. Personal loans have grown by 29 per cent. The amount on loan from finance companies in the last 12 months has grown by only 5.7 per cent while those from Bankcard and credit unions have each grown by 39 per cent. I think it is significant to remember that savings deposits per head not only with savings banks but also with permanent building societies and finance companies are really at a quite high level, and that these deposits more than offset the increasing indebtedness .of consumer credit. We must recognise that while there is an increasing use of credit, there have also been significant developments on the privacy aspects as a result of voluntary arrangements made between finance companies and governments to ensure that there is adequate protection of the individual. Having, I believe, substantiated my case, I move: 
That business of the day be now called on.  
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. Bearing in mind that single unemployed have not received any increase in unemployment benefit for two years, and bearing in mind that 241,500 people are involved, or 77.5 per cent of those receiving the unemployment benefit, I ask: What further measures will the Government implement to alleviate the range of problems of unemployed persons, especially those with no dependants and living away from home? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services whether it is a fact that certain threats from the Leader of the Australian Democrats were reported to the effect that following the next elections the Democrats will challenge honourable senators taking their place in this chamber on the matter of electoral expenses if his personal requests on public funding are not met. Further, does the Government intend amending the Commonwealth Electoral Act to overcome the present shortcomings following the constitutional crisis in Tasmania? Finally, is this approach by the Australian Democrats the most appropriate way of exercising a party's voice in this chamber on the matter of public funding of political parties? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. All honourable senators would be aware of the great pioneering work on the commercial development of penicillin which has been done in Australia. In view of some doubts which have been expressed about the continued production of penicillin at the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, when can the Australian community expect a government response as to whether the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories or the foreign owned Abbotts Laboratories will be the sole producer of penicillin in Australia? 

 -Mr Deputy President, my question is directed to you. In your opening prayer within this chamber, will you give consideration, firstly, to widening its content to acknowledge Australia's obligations within the world community and, secondly, to using modern English? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I believe that the prayers that are in use, and have been in use in this place for a long time, are basically regarded as suitable to the occasion. Nevertheless, I will give consideration to the question raised. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that planes bound for or redirected to Hobart must at certain periods of an evening rely on information and directions from the Launceston operations centre? Further, what measures are under consideration to ensure that Hobart Airport is manned by air traffic controllers 24 hours each day? 

 - Mr President, my question is about a very old financial institution in South Australia which must be very close to the concern of your family because of its long links with that State. My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer.  Mr Myer 
Solomon, a South Australian businessman, and others have recently called on the Treasurer to do everything possible to allow the Bank of Adelaide to retain its separate identity. 
In view of the stance taken by the small shareholders to keep the Bank of Adelaide operating as a going concern so as not to lessen the competition in the Australian banking system, is the Treasurer prepared to discuss with the Reserve Bank of Australia a revision of the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd takeover of the Bank of Adelaide? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that a single transmitter in the north of Tasmania is responsible for relaying Australian Broadcasting Commission radio broadcasts to 52.7 per cent of that State's population and to areas as remote as King Island and Flinders Island? On the other hand, all capital cities have at least two main transmitters. Because certain areas, including parts of Launceston and Deloraine, have very poor reception, will the Minister consider placing a second transmitter along the north-west coast or alternatively resiting the present one? 
My question concerns an area of possible underpayment of unemployment benefit where the recipient's earnings exceed $6 a week. It is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Will the Minister give consideration to revising the form of earnings accompanying the fortnightly unemployment benefit cheque? Currently a person on unemployment benefit may be at a disadvantage since the dates of working are required to be shown on the form but not the amount of earnings for each day's work. All that is required is a total figure for the fortnight's earnings. For example, $4 may be earned in one week and $46 in the second week, making $50 for the fortnight. I understand that the calculations are now worked out equally over the relevant days stated rather than on the amounts of earnings related to those particular days. Will the Minister examine ways of overcoming this problem? 
-I rise in support of these amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act with a deep sense of concern that some individual members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission are acting in such a way as to require legislative enactment to ensure that, amongst other things, they indulge in a normal consultative process. One of the main reasons for industrial disruption in Australia is, naturally enough, demands for wage increases. In addition to the many disputes about the conditions of employment, the demands are often linked with the wage fixation principle. All disputes have an economic cost, but not all have the same impact, direction, consequence, scope or effect. The final outcome of disputes may even be a lessening of employment opportunities because the economic wage increase impact on the employer could induce him to introduce further technology to replace workers or cause him to reduce the scale of his operations. It could even cause this provider of labour to go out of business altogether. 
We also have to consider the impact of industrial disputes on such matters as the consumer price index and inflation. Inflation is the hidden thief of one's life savings, the destroyer of sound long-term decision-making and of business confidence, the conjuror of stable economic relativities, the tax man's opportunity to bite even deeper into the wage earner's pocket, and the disappearing opportunity for the average Australian to own his own home. Thus, industrial disputation directly and indirectly affects consumers and investment confidence. It affects also our international trade, capital movements and, ultimately, the balance of payments. 
Let us look at the effect of some strikes on the community. Let us look firstly at the effects on the consumer price index. These can be gauged by taking some examples. The two months strike by 600 brewery workers in Queensland who sought service grants and a laundering allowance added 35 points to the December CPI. In another case rural workers were seriously affected by strikes at the Grain Elevators Board in New South Wales. This dispute involved 1,500 members of the Australian Workers Union and caused serious disruption to harvesting, duplication of handling facilities and put at risk a substantial proportion of the New South Wales wheat harvest for that year. Consumers have been inconvenienced by strikes by the Storemen and Packers Union at Woolworths stores which involved superannuation implications and resulted in wage increases ranging from $6 to $10. The nature, frequency, duration and timing of disputes have a significant impact upon the economy. 
Why should unions be above the law? As some of the resolutions adopted at the Labor Party Conference recently held in Adelaide tend to suggest, the majority of the Opposition detests, and rightly so, monopoly influence and monopoly power, but not when it is the sole preserve of the union movement. Unions in Australia have acquired a monopoly power over the supply of labour similar to that which the 1 9th century industrialists had on the demand side for labour. However, this unique position of a monopoly power over the supply of labour must never place the unions above the law. Some communist-led union bosses often use their power in pursuit of social and political changes; they use the benefits and privileges afforded by industrial legislation which is designed to protect the economic interests of their members. 
Regrettably I foresee a great increase in industrial disputation toward the end of this year.  ^Quorum formed).  The departure from the union scene of such moderates as John Ducker is an indication of the growing influence of the far Left. Bob Hawke 's leaving the Australian Council of Trade Unions can hardly be seen as a unifying or moderating influence on ACTU policy. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Jessop)-  There is no point of order. It is the custom in this place to allow reference to notes. I draw the attention of  Senator Watson  to that point and ask him to refrain from reading from notes that are too copious. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I have made my ruling. I call  Senator Watson. 
I believe that there is such great community focus on what we may refer to as the national wage cases that frequently we lose sight of the fact that significant wage increases occur outside the ambit of national wage case increases. I refer to the overaward payments and over-award rates that apply. In Australia we are moving increasingly to what might be referred to as a centralised wage fixing system. We often find that exceptional or particular circumstances in one area soon become exceptional or particular circumstances in other areas and thus flow across industry boundaries to quite a marked extent. On the other hand, I acknowledge that there has been a substantial reduction in payments for margins of skills that apply to skilled tradesmen, and this I regret. All too often we find highly trained technicians and tradesmen in situations where they are getting less money than those who are occupying positions in more sedentary occupations. I think there is some merit in the system which operated some years ago in which we had a basic wage concept and a margin for skill. I believe that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission must give greater attention to this aspect of rewarding skill. The claim by many wage earners - 
I believe it is appropriate that we take a balanced approach. 
-If the honourable senator will permit me time he will hear me cite figures which are actually in favour of certain claims for which he is arguing. There are many claims that wage earners are losing their relativities. For example, it is well known that the consumer price index rose by 7.9 per cent in the year ended 31 December 1978. But average wage earnings increased by 8.8 per cent in the relevant year and average weekly ordinary time earnings increased by 9.3 per cent. 
At present we appear to be very much in the grip of a continuous series of industrial disputations which have caused serious economic disruption. I submit that the number of these industrial disputations is very much greater than the official figures reveal. Information which is provided by and available from the Australian Bureau of Statistics indicate that there is an upward movement in the number of disputes. In 1976 there were 2,055, in 1977 there were 2,090, in 1978 there were 2,277 and the provisional figures for the 12 months to 30 June 1978 indicate that the number of industrial disputes will be even higher. However, the statistics issued by the Bureau refer to disputes involving 10 or more man days lost. There are literally hundreds of disputes which do not fall within that category and of which no particular record is taken. Not all disputes are picked up by the ABS collection techniques. For example, stoppages which occur at different times and in different establishments but which have a common cause are recorded as one dispute. Workers who are protected in jobs or sectional groups which form a small segment of a total industry are often in a position to press for wage increases which the remainder of the community can ill afford, especially in these times of high unemployment. 
We find that precedents set by members of the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's Association of Australasia or by unions working in such industries as the oil industry or the transport industry often give rise to monetary increments that workers in other industries naturally feel they are entitled to receive. Consequently, as I mentioned earlier, we have a spreading right across industry boundaries. The result of the 1 978 transport dispute was a scenario of disputes before, during and following the hearing which in December last year granted $8 per week to drivers and $5.50 to all the other classifications. On the very day that the increases were granted they flowed through to other State transport awards, for example, in New South Wales. Other awards were increased either by consent or by arbitration as a result of this federal precedent. The figures suggest that a further 12 federal awards, including the mixed industries transport award which applies across practically the whole ambit of the manufacturing sector in Australia, were increased by amounts similar to those awarded in the airlines settlement. 
As I mentioned earlier, we often have particular or exceptional circumstances in one industry which do not necessarily apply right across the spectrum. 
The first part of the Bill before us today concerns compliance with principles or guidelines which are set down by the Full Bench. The purpose of this is to prevent the inevitable industrial turmoil which will take place as a result of commissioners making independent decisions or leap-frogging decisions made by their associates. I believe that through the procedural mechanism of a commissioner's consulting with his  deputy president  we must inevitably get a situation of far greater uniformity in commissioners' decisions. I believe it is blatantly unfair that an employee who works under an award granted by one commissioner should receive a higher amount than that awarded by another commissioner. Unfortunately this sort of decision is not checked. I cannot see any reason why it has not been checked within the Commission's proceedings. It can lead to discontent within the community. I believe that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  in the other place had some problems with the term 'consult'. Perhaps this is understandable, as I believe that during the Labor Party's term of office it did not consult with the then National Labour Advisory Council. It did not do so even during 1974 when I understand something like six million days were lost through industrial disputes. So much for that lack of consultation. 
There has been a cry from the unions that they had no input into these legislative amendments. I must remind them that they were invited to attend meetings with this tripartite National Labour Consultative Council at which the proposed amendments were discussed. I believe that on two occasions the Minister wrote to such bodies as the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations, but to no avail. The executive members of the unions simply stayed away. 
I wish to draw attention to the consequences that arise from some of the disputes which have made this Bill necessary. I refer first to the action of Commissioner Deverall in the case of the Transport Workers (Airlines) Award 1978 under which a wide range of increases- as much as $23 a week- were granted. The Full Bench guidelines were circumvented by the expedient of restructuring the classifications in the award. Thus, compensation was paid for increases in what were referred to as flexibility of work arrangements. We not only have work value arrangements; we also have flexibility in work arrangements. That is how Commissioner Deverall circumvented the guidelines. The decision was appealed against and, as a result of the appellant body following the normal guidelines which Commissioner Deverall might have been expected to apply, substantial reductions in the increases were made. Naturally, widespread disputation followed. One cannot really blame the union members for that under such circumstances. If Commissioner Deverall had been required to consult, as is proposed under new section 22A, many of the problems which resulted could have been averted. The Bill does not provide for a direction to be given to a  deputy president.  It merely requires that to ensure a degree of uniformity, a certain consultative process shall be followed. Proposed new section 22A, as honourable senators should be made well aware, provides: 22a. Where- 
a Commissioner proposes to make an award, 
. making provision for, or altering, the rates of wages or the conditions applicable in relation to employees in a particular industry or group of industries; and 
that industry or group of industries, as the case may be, has been assigned under sub-section ( 1 ) of section 23 to a panel of members of the Commission, the Commissioner shall, before making the award or certifying the memorandum of agreement, whether or not he is a member of that panel, consult with the Presidential Member who is a member of that panel. 
Presidential members of panels are effectively in charge. They have a close understanding of the awards and know the particular exigencies of the industry to which they apply those awards. They also have a full knowledge of the principles of wage fixation. 
Another provision of the Bill relating to strike pay amends section 33 of the principal Act and emphasises that a commissioner shall act as expeditiously as is appropriate, noting all of the relevant circumstances and, further, that the matter may be referred to the Full Bench on application to the  President.  I emphasise the term 'may be'. There are a few strikes- I underline the word few'- that enjoy a measure of community support or sympathy. An example was the air traffic controllers' dispute in protest against a successful Public Service Board appeal which removed a $205 per annum allowance granted specifically to cover loss of licence through illness. That action appeared to be somewhat harsh and unjust. The air traffic controllers found certain difficulties with it and went on strike. One may argue whether that was the appropriate course to take, but that there was a grievance and an injustice was recognised. Lest it be said that I am a continual union basher, I state that I recognise that in every dispute there is some measure of genuine complaint. But quite often we find that, as the matter moves through the industrial spectrum, the initial problem is often lost sight of and other issues come to the forefront. 
Let us consider two building industry cases which occurred in Victoria. One concerned Costain Pty Ltd and the other Lewis Construction Pty Ltd. They resulted in commissioners ordering payments for lost time as a result of stoppages. But let me emphasise that, as I see it, the purpose of the anti-strike pay provisions is threefold. First, they are designed to give employees protection against the termination of their employment contracts. Employers in this and other industries are increasingly likely in such situations to sack people, who thus lose their rights and accrued benefits. The second purpose is to minimise the loss to the employer. The third is to encourage unionists to exercise a degree of moderation. I must emphasise that these standdown provisions are not granted automatically, for example, to help an employer overcome a loss situation. 
-Obviously, as the honourable senator knows because of his industrial background, the circumstances will vary from case to case. The actual date of commencement of a dispute is often open to question. I propose to quote remarks of Chief Justice Barwick which I believe to be relevant to the question that the honourable senator has just raised. Chief Justice Barwick said: 
Mere dissatisfaction with existing conditions and a desire for higher rates of pay do not give rise to a relevant dispute until that point of time at which the real and specific demands of members of the union have been denied by the employers. Nothing less in relation to rates of pay can give rise to a dispute which will warrant a dispute in the jurisdiction of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
Certain of these amendments do help to resolve the sometimes difficult problem as to when a dispute arises. To overcome serious inequities and problems that can be caused as a result of protracted discussions at the conciliation stage, these amendments provide that, to decide whether the proceedings are at the conciliation or the arbitration stage, the matter can be referred to a Full Bench. It is important to note that this provision has been brought down in response to the particularly severe Telecom dispute.  Mr Justice  Staples was one of the offenders. The proposed amendments have some relevence, to his actions. Unfortunately, he saw fit to make somewhat unprecedented statements and to draw an analogy with the situation in Nazi Germany in the 1930s. Fortunately, not all of his associates agree with the depth of the criticism that  Mr Justice  Staples has levelled at this legislation. But I suppose that such criticisms are not surprising when one considers  Mr Justice  Staples' very radical background. As my colleague,  Senator Walters,  mentioned last night,  Mr Justice  Staples is a former member of the Communist Party. He has continued to be a controversial character ever since he joined the Commission, I believe in 1975. It culminated in his - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Jessop)-  I think,  Senator Georges,  we have had enough discussion. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I feel I have heard enough to make a determination and I ask the honourable senator to resume his seat. I have taken note of - 
Sentor  Georges- The point I wish to make has not been made. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I can interrupt the discussion on the point of order. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I have heard enough to make a decision. I recognise the concern expressed by  Senator Chipp.  The ruling in this place in the past has always been that one should refrain from making any derogatory statements with respect to the judiciary. References have been made on both sides of the House to the judiciary and it is difficult to avoid it in this sort of circumstance. I would like  Senator Watson  to continue and to refrain from any remarks that could be regarded as derogatory. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  With your permission I think it is appropriate for this chamber to consider some of the remarks that have been made by  Mr Justice  Staples and point out where at least one senator believes he is wide of the mark on matters of his interpretation. I point out an area of difference or discrepancy between  Mr Justice  Staples' interpretation of these amendments and mine. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! Your interjection is disorderly,  Senator Georges.  I want you to remember that.  Senator Watson  may continue his remarks but should bear in mind what I said about any derogatory remarks. 
-Mr Justice Staples was relating to governments' requiring justices to fulfil the will of the state or the will of the Government. This is not the intention at all of this legislation. It is purely requiring a consultative process between a commissioner and a  deputy president.  I think it must be remembered -and I acknowledge the fact- that the Commission is constitutionally independent of government matters. Let us proceed further in relation to deregistration. The Minister must apply section 5 1 of the Constitution which provides for reference of matters to the independent Full Bench for a declaration. So the emphasis is on the Full Bench. It has got to make the decision. There is no requirement, there is no pressure. 
-The Constitution provides for the independence of the judiciary and its function is to decide the legal matters. It is the interpretation of the Constitution to provide it, and this Parliament to legislate it. In relation to this matter of deregistration the words used must refer to a substantial effect on safety, health and welfare of the community or part of the community. On the other hand, the referral of an industrial dispute because of special reasons to the  President  is not unreasonable because, after all, he is the head of the show, the head of the organisation and must always be in a position to step in and take over when special reasons or occasion demands. Otherwise what is he? He is a head in name only. 
It has also been mentioned that  Sir Richard  Kirby has questioned the constitutional validity of some of these amendments. These were made, I believe, at a very early stage in the proceedings. He may not have had the opportunity of studying the full details involved because they were made at a very early stage. Most of the amendments refer merely to procedural matters. I think this is important because none of the provisions are designed to control, they are merely procedural matters. They are not designed to control a commissioner by limiting his discretionary powers in relation to prevention and settlement of disputes. A commissioner is not subject to a direction; it is just a requirement that he consult with his presidential colleague before making a decision. 
In 1976 the High Court examined this matter and stated that the legislature has the power to make laws directing the Commission with respect to procedural matters, but may not direct the Commission on how to settle disputes. 
Let us go back a few years, which I think may assist us in understanding the present problems. The consensus of wages policy of the 1960s was no longer acceptable when we came to the 1970s because the 1970s saw a situation of wage increases with both State and Federal governments in many cases acting as the pace setters with the consequent flow-on to the private sector. We find that 1 974, the year of the Federal Labor Government, was the worst year for industrial disputation since statistics were first collected in 1929. To overcome the situation the Commission introduced wage indexation against quite strong opposition from the employers' group, because this employers' group regarded the move as quite inflationary. But the aim was to introduce a highly centralised system of wage fixation in Australia. It had the attribute of trying to ensure a maintenance of living standards and that increases were related to movements in the consumer price index. The extent to which the Commission has achieved these objectives must be said to be questionable to some extent. 
Now, with the partial recovery of the Australian economy, we find the situation is that many unionists are trying to initiate wage increases outside the national wage cases. In some circumstances tribunals have used work value or work flexibility reasons to escape the Full Bench guidelines on wage restraint. As I mentioned earlier, a sectional victory can give rise to a flow-on across industry boundaries to other related industries. There is certainly a need for a wages policy which has general community support, but the first step will be to obtain a general consensus about a national wages policy. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the stricter work tests that have been operating for the past fortnight. Under these new rules, where an unemployed person refuses work he may lose his unemployment benefit. With this in mind, will the Minister consider raising the present limits on income that a person can earn from  S3  and $6 respectively to $20 a week? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
Has an estimate been made of the cost to the Government in the year 1978-79, had recipients of unemployment benefits been able to earn $20 per week before earnings were deducted from their unemployment benefits; if so, what is the estimate. 
I would be grateful if the Minister could respond to the problem that I raised concerning the realism of collective responsibility in the case of a union which has particularly wide membership covering various segments of an industry. In the case of the governing body of that union not endorsing a strike, I wonder whether a further discretion should be given to the Director-General to determine whether it would be unreasonable under those circumstances for the unemployment benefit to be denied to those union members not on strike but stood down as a result of the strike. 
-I can foresee injustice arising in situations where perhaps a very large union is involved and the government body thereof does not actually endorse the strike in question. I was wondering whether, in such circumstances, the DirectorGeneral should be given an additional discretion- to decide whether it would be reasonable that some of the members stood down as a result of strike action should be deemed to be entitled to the unemployment benefit. I visualise that, in a large union particularly, certainly injustices could result because a segment thereof involved people who, though they had not directly contributed to the strike, may have been stood down as a result of it. In such circumstances I would like to see the Director-General possess a further degree of discretion. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. There is a continuing complaint especially from lower and middle income earners when they compare their average weekly earnings with the figures compiled by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Unfortunately a number of deficiencies show up in the compilation of these official statistics, especially those arising from the private sector through payroll tax returns. For example, not all firms are required to submit returns. Therefore a high degree of estimating is needed. The average does not recognise movements in employment during the month as the dollar figure for the month is divided by the numbers on hand at the end of the month, resulting in an unnecessarily inflated figure. As these are not the only deficiencies, will the Government consider scrapping the current statistics or alternatively examine means of improving the accuracy of the official average weekly earnings submitted by the Bureau? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In a recent newspaper statement, the Tasmanian Minister for Agriculture claimed that the Tasmanian sphere of influence over Bass Strait waters appears to have decreased. Is this so? If so, does this mean that Tasmania's area of fishing rights also has been reduced? Before such decisions were taken, were full discussions held with the relevant Tasmanian authorities? 
Tonight I wish to present a case or an example of inadequate compensation and a degree of misguided alignment which has been inflicted upon a Tasmanian pig producer by various authorities, by some sections of the media and by some people. At the same time, I recognise that the preventative measures were undertaken or executed with the highest motives and with the intention of protecting the Australian livestock industry. I refer to the shooting of over 600 pigs, the slaughter of over 50 cattle, the poisoning of wildlife and the destruction of 17 buildings on a property at Legana in Tasmania. Today it was reported that tests in Britain have revealed no evidence of the alluded to foot and mouth or other blister causing diseases. These tests were taken from samples of pigs that were involved in the recent scare in Tasmania. 
The Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Nixon,  has stated that the Director of the Animal Virus Institute at Pirbright in England has advised that all tests on material from the pigs in Tasmania were negative. The tests have shown that foot and mouth or other vesicular or blister causing diseases were not present. Regrettably, the initial communications with the Press and the public were very poor indeed. Neighbouring residents could hear sounds of shooting from the afternoon until late into the evening. Also police activity was prevalent in the area by the erection of barricades on adjacent roads. All this occurred before any public announcement was made. Rumours in such circumstances usually run rife. One authoritative and respected newspaper reported that the problem was a disease associated with foot and mouth. A further example of some of the inaccuracies in the reporting stages is a description of the area as being south of Launceston. It is well known that Legana is more to the north of the city. 
I commend the promptness of the action taken and the efficiency of those who were deployed on the project, but I am very much concerned at the plight of the affected owner whose livelihood has been ruined, at least for two years, because he needs to rebuild his piggery with very inadequate compensation. I therefore ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Webster)  to re-examine the compensation payments which have been offered at this stage to  Mr Antypas,  otherwise we will find that farmers in like circumstances may not report problems involving diseased livestock. 
I concede the values attributed to the cattle in question to be fair. On the other hand, the compensation for the pigs was less than adequate considering that the pigs of this producer have consistently brought amongst the top prices at the local markets. The person who is given the responsibility for determining these valuations must be a specialist in the marketing area for the livestock in question. Preferably the value should represent a consensus from two independent experts, in this case on pig marketing. However, the compensation for the buildings is pathetic. It originally started at something like $5,000 and was intended to cover 17 structures. Admittedly, they were quite old structures but, on the other hand, they were quite adequate because they were used to house in excess of 600 animals. I would suggest a replacement figure for these buildings to be more in the vicinity of $50,000. This is the amount required at today's prices for buildings to house an equivalent replacement herd. Regrettably, to date, there has been no compensation offered for loss of income or a reimbursement of what may be referred to as the standing or recurrent costs associated with the shutdown. 
With such unfair compensation, given the extenuating circumstances and the ridicule that this man has suffered, often by irresponsible statements and assumptions by those who should know better, livestock producers placed in similar circumstances may quietly dispose of suspect animals or, alternatively, hope that potentially serious complaints could be contained. This could have disastrous effects on our livestock industry. Therefore, let us use this opportunity to ensure that we never again place farmers iri a position which would deter them from immediately notifying the authorities of possible diseases. I have a personal sympathy for the veterinary surgeon who quite responsibly reported the suspected symptoms to the Director of Agriculture. In retrospect, there is a probability that the whole venture could well be a faux pas, though at the time the cautions were deemed desirable considering the implications of the probability of an exotic disease. As I mentioned, there is now some probability that the skin eruption could have been due to a skin reaction to an administered mixture to alleviate a degree of skin irritation prior to calling for veterinary advice. 
Some newspapers carried headlines claiming the outbreak was foot and mouth disease. Regrettably, this has a twofold effect on Tasmania. Some countries placed a ban on animal imports from Tasmania. This had a depressing effect on the rural economy. It also placed  Mr Antypas  in a very embarrassing position. Some newspapers insinuated that he had fed his pigs with swill which included meat. At present in Tasmania it is not illegal to feed pigs on swill provided there are no meat products in it. There is absolutely no evidence that  Mr Antypas  had been doing this, but it was printed in newspapers as one possible reason for the outbreak of foot and mouth disease on this farm. I repeat that this sort of reporting placed  Mr Antypas  in a very embarrassing situation and could well cause other Tasmanian farmers to blame him unnecessarily or to hold him responsible for restrictions placed on the export of meat and livestock from Tasmania. I therefore ask that reasonable compensation and a degree of compassion be given and that the bans be lifted immediately. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services whether it is a fact that consideration is being given to tendering for computer equipment for the Australian Bureau of Statistics for a third time? If so, will the Government ensure that a system is built which can be utilised in the shortest time-span considering current problems as to obsolescence and inadequacy of the present computer? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. What effect will the withdrawal, scheduled for 30 June next, of British missile testing have on the future of the Woomera Rocket Range? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Lionel  Bowen, was recently reported to the effect of advocating the abolition of the Senate 's powers. Does the Government subscribe to this view? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Will the Government give consideration to reintroducing the trading stock valuation adjustment or a similar inflation-countering technique, at the same time restricting it to manufacturing operations in which the lead time between the acquisition of raw materials and their conversion to stock, sales, debtors and cash is considerably longer than in the case of, say, a retailing-type operation? 
I commend  Senator Rae  on the report which he has just presented. The report refers to depreciation charges providing finance to service future asset acquisitions, or wording to that effect. From an accounting point of view, to avoid the report's losing any of its credibility, could that matter be reviewed before the report is printed? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave- I refer to remarks made by me this morning following the tabling of the second report of the Senate Committee on Finance and Government Operations-Statutory Authorities of the Commonwealth'. In that statement I raised a doubt as to the accuracy of certain matters relating to depreciation charges. On further examination of both the text of the statement and the relevant sections of the report, I wish to state that I was in error and not  Senator Rae.  I therefore wish to apologise to  Senator Rae  and his Committee and in doing so wish to withdraw my earlier remarks. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, concerns interest rates. In view of spiralling interest rates overseas, can the Minister advise the Senate of the current situation in Australia in relation to interest rates in comparison with the United States and the United Kingdom? 
-I have several matters to raise on the purpose of providing further clarification of the accounting process when providing information to Senate Estimates committees. I think it is important when the Estimates committees are provided with figures that we be provided also with a reconciliation between those figures which are subject to evaluation by a particular committee and the total appropriation for the department concerned. For example, a Senate Estimates committee looks only at part of the total of the Defence expenditure, and when I requested a reconciliation between the amount examined by Estimates Committee F and the total of the Budget appropriation, the reconciliation ran into something like one and three-quarter pages. I think it is important, when people have an interest in defence matters, that they be provided with a reconciliation at the front of the estimates so that they can go fairly quickly to the other departments such as Construction, Productivity, Attorney-General 's, National Development, Administrative Services and so on to get the complete picture. I request that this type of presentation become a regular feature not only of the Defence Department documents but also of the documents presented by other departments, reconciling the figures for the department under investigation with the total of the Budget appropriation. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the information outlined on pages 80 and 8 1 of the written replies to questions asked during the meetings of Senate Estimates Committee F. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Annex K to DEF 1 10/4/204 of 5 October 1979 

<graphic href="083232197911214_123_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911214_124_5.jpg"></graphic>

-The second matter that concerns me relates to the accounting for works in progress. It is all very well during Senate Estimates committee hearings to say that we expect to expend so many millions of dollars on capital works in a particular year and that so 

<graphic href="083232197911214_124_7.jpg"></graphic>

much remains. It is also important to know the total estimated cost and the expenditure to date. For that purpose, I point to the practice used by the Australian Postal Commission and outlined in 'Service and Business Outlook for 1970-80, August 1 979, ' and recommend that this method of illustrating works in progress be adopted. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  pages 1 1 and 12 of that publication. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="083232197911214_124_6.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911214_124_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911214_125_8.jpg"></graphic>

-Finally, I wish to thank the Department of Defence for its very detailed explanations during the hearings of Senate Estimates Committee F. We go into the matters fairly thoroughly, and I wish to thank the Department for the depth of its answers and its written explanations. I apologise to Messrs Hansen and Ives for keeping them until this late time. I appreciate their services at this late hour. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Currently the Income Tax Assessment Act recognises the increased cost of living in isolated areas of Australia by providing tax rebates in relation to two zones, A and B. In view of the difficulty of attracting skilled people to work in the more remote areas, coupled with the need to develop resources in such places, will the Government give recognition to extending and liberalising the present tax rebate in relation to the respective zones? 
-In speaking to the Patents Amendment (Patent Cooperation Treaty) Bill I wish to emphasise that the Australian patent system has recently seen many innovations designed to ensure that it provides a reasonable incentive for invention and research and, at the same time, encourages a rapid and effective dissemination of technological information. Since June 1978 there have been three major legislative changes in the patents area. These changes have been necessary to keep pace with changes in industry. 
The first legislative change to which I wish to refer was the Patents Amendment Bill 1978. The purpose of that Bill was to reduce the period in which technological information in patent document could not be made available to the public. This brought the publication date into conformity with that adopted by most other countries. The second legislative change was the Trade Marks Amendment Bill 1978. The Trade Marks Act 1955 provided for the registration and the statutory protection of marks used to distinguish the services provided by traders and persons engaged in business from the services provided by other businesses or persons. The amending Bill sought to bring the trademarks used in relation to services into line with the marks used for goods. 
The most important legislative change occurred with the Patents Amendment Bill 1979 which sought to introduce a system of petty patents protection. That system was designed to provide short term protection which could be available in circumstances in which the applicant sought a quick, inexpensive and more readily obtained method on a short term basis. So that was intended to provide a mechanism which was specifically adapted to provide a protection for the simpler mechanical-type inventions which could be exploited by manufacturing industry and which were readily available, but which had a short term life or a short term commercial operation. 
The Minister for Productivity,  Mr Macphee,  in his wisdom decided to effect certain changes to the patents system and sought a comprehensive review of it. As a result of  Mr Macphee  's recommendations, an ongoing committee on industrial property was set up for the first time in Australia. This Committee is referred to as the Industrial Property Advisory Committee. Its purpose is to advise the Minister on matters concerning industrial property, of which the Patents Amendment Bill 1979-the petty patents Billwas one example. So it was set up for the main purpose of reflecting the views of Australian industry and to increase the effectiveness of the system of contributing to industrial exploitation of new technology by Australian industry and encouraging industrial research and development within Australia. 
The Bill before us today actually seeks to amend the Patents Act 1 952 to provide accession by Australia to the Patent Cooperation Treaty. The PCT is an agreement for international cooperation in the field of patents and, most specifically, in the procedure for the protection of inventions and for the provision of technological information relating to such patents. As such, it seeks to eliminate much of the duplication of effort in the present system and obviates, therefore, the necessity for separate filing and consideration of applications in each of the countries in which the protection is sought. It assists not only the applicants but also the countries with which the applications are sought to be registered, particularly in the developing countries. 
The flow of technological information is assured, not only by the patents that may be granted but also by their publication. This system provides a valuable bank of technological information, also the Patent Cooperation Treaty Countries automatically receive the PCT publications without charge. Therefore, it not only improves the access of the public to information, but also fosters and accelerates economic development. The whole purpose is to achieve a system of simplification and rationalisation which is provided by the system of standardisation of application requirements in each of the countries which participate in the Treaty to the extent that the applicants which are recognised in one country are also recognised in every other participating country in which the patent applicant desires protection. 
There is a view by some people that patents should be a mere aggregation of individual private rights. This is probably an historic view and it ignores the capability of patents to contribute to national economic development. I commend this Bill to the Senate as a further step forward in bringing the patents system into line with changes in industrial research and thus promoting national development. 
