It is an honour to speak during the Address-in-Reply debate. I take this .opportunity of congratulating the  Speaker  and the  Chairman  of Committees on their elevation to these two most important positions. I would also like to congratulate other honourable members who have given fine addresses as their maiden speeches. 
I speak as the new member for Franklin, having taken over from  Mr Ray  Sherry who held the seat of Franklin with distinction for 5 years. Franklin may best be described as half of Hobart. It takes into account part of the city of Glenorchy, a busy residential area sprinkled with commercial enterprises both large and small. It also takes in the Huon channel, a predominantly rural area with several large industries concerned with fruit, carbide works and timber. This area was once renowned for a thriving apple industry. The electorate also includes the municipality of Clarence, a dormitory suburb with a small rural sector, fast growing and attractive to the young people of Hobart but with few employment opportunities. Without doubt the electorate of Franklin has some of the most scenic spots in Australia. Of course I am parochial. If all representatives in this House feel strongly about their electorates and are prepared to represent and fight for all people to the best of their ability, Australia will be a better place in which to live. Like all new members, I am keen to work, and as I walked across the floor to be sworn in one good natured Opposition member said: 'He will need good luck'. I say that we all need good luck to right this economy, which is at a very low ebb at the moment. 
My electorate unfortunately was divided by the loss of the Tasman Bridge on 5 January 1975. That was a fateful Sunday evening, as all honourable members realise. It resulted in the tragic loss of 13 lives and caused untold social and human problems to the people of Hobart. It is not my intention to dwell on that disaster, but I should like in my maiden speech to extend my sympathy to the families who lost their loved ones and to pay a tribute to the many people who worked so genuinely and so hard during those months in 1975. They know who they are and their devotion and service during that critical period was not always recognised. To the people of Hobart, who have overcome so resolutely the problem of inconvenience, let it be said that that was their finest hour. 
Fortunately, often a great deal of good comes out of disaster, and ultimately the city of Hobart will benefit by a better road system, a continued ferry service and a second crossing. They will bring further development and a reassurance that previous traffic snarls will be minimised. An alternative bridge is also necessary to compensate for the possible loss of the bridge that is now being repaired. It plays on the minds of many of the people of Tasmania, and in particular the people of Hobart, that if the bridge should fall once again as the result of a disaster there would be a recurrence of the hardships and problems that have been encountered in the last 12 months. I firmly believe that a second bridge should be a priority, and of course I will fight for the construction of such a bridge. 
Local government, which is a creature of the State and sometimes considered to be the poor lost child, played an important role during the rehabilitation period. It is the grass roots government, important to the people it represents and very aware of and sensitive to their problems. That statement is borne out by an independent survey conducted by the University of Tasmania which found that the residents of the eastern shore were reliant on and grateful to local government during this period. In fact, the local government centre in the municipality of Clarence became the blood centre of operations. Most of the people who had problems during that critical time went to the local government authority where they were consoled, assisted and helped. I think that as politicians we should once again get close to the people. We should find out their needs, search their minds and come forward with their problems and not the problems of some of the manipulators who think that they are running Australia. 
This Government was elected by the people and the people are dictating the terms at the moment. They made the decision on 13 December to elect this Government. I will honour that commitment. I will work for the people not just of Tasmania but of Australia, and I am sure that all my colleagues will do just that and work for that one aim. Although many local authorities throughout Australia are shackled with financial and economic problems, I believe that if they were given the encouragement and incentives to make decisions and to assist in improving the quality of life for the people they represent they would do it admirably.  Mr Whitlam  and his Government were becoming aware of local government. I know that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has indicated strongly the intended involvement of the Liberal and National Country Parties in local government. Local government is most important. Many honourable members have spoken about local government today. I think they realise that from grass roots government come men and women who are prepared to right and work for people. The money that will go to local government under the Government's new federalism plan will be in the form of an equalisation or a toppingup grant to be distributed through State grants commissions. If local government is to survive it needs real assistance and encouragement. I can assure that strata of government that I am aware of its problems and will continually promote its cause. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  commented on the critical freight situation affecting Tasmania. I share his view that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is tackling the problem realistically and that eventually, with the introduction of an equalisation plan, the ability of Tasmania to trade on a comparable basis with other States should be greatly improved. Tasmanians will not allow their parliamentary representatives to sit idly by whilst the freight problems continue. I have certainly heeded their warning and I know that all the other honourable members from Tasmania have also done so. Some of my closest friends advised me to sit back and listen before making my maiden speech and, in fact, learn all the tricks of the trade. If listening to displays of bitterness, soaked in innuendo, constitute learning the trade then I want no part of it. I can assure all honourable members that my aim is to work and not become involved in some of the pettiness that I have heard in this place. The House is like a theatre. Someone who is a very good actor apparently gets on and impresses everybody in Australia. But there are many of us who are not good actors but are prepared to work genuinely for the people who sent us to Canberra. 
The Labor Government endeavoured to pursue its economic policies in such a way that wellintentioned and idealistic plans for a welfare state resulted in a political and economic catastrophe. I beleve that some of the Labor policies, such as the Australian Assistance Plan, were moving in the right direction, but the election results must show conclusively that the people of Australia are now aware that schemes to ensure social justice must be coupled with sound economic management. The fallacy that all Liberals care only about the privileged sector is absolute nonsense. I can assure the Opposition that there are many members of the Liberal-National Country Party Government who know what it is like to struggle and know what it is to work hard, but who also realise that the excessive expansion of big government causes more and more areas of the private sector to fail through lack of resources- and the private sector traditionally employs by far the highest percentage of the Australian work force. 
Tasmania must be able to reduce the number of unemployed. I believe that with freight assistance and sound economic planning confidence will again be instilled into the private sector, that new industries will develop and eventually the tragic brain-drain from Tasmania will be halted. Unfortunately, many very competent young people leave Tasmania because they cannot procure satisfactory jobs there. I hope, and I know that other honourable members from Tasmania hope that Tasmania once again will be able to provide sound, secure jobs for the young people, my children and their children. 
Many things have been said about the importance of tourism in Tasmania. High fares and high accommodation costs have had a very damaging effect. It is my earnest desire that a solution be found and that the future will hold greater promise for this essential industry. It would do honourable members and all Australians who have not yet discovered Tasmania a lot of good to visit this beautiful island. During my election campaign I saw many residents of the Huon Valley, who are dependent on the timber industry for their livelihood. They are very sound, good people who live in the Huon because they like it. They came into direct conflict with the conservationists. It is my opinion that less vocal groups such as the residents of the rural area that I mentioned, together with conservation groups, should each be given the opportunity to declare their case when far-reaching decisions of declaring national estates are made. My point is that if both groups work in harmony one section will not need to leave its homes and will not need to look for jobs in the cities; the best of both worlds will be achieved. That is particularly so in Tasmania. 
Those who have preceded me in this debate have spoken in depth about our future economic plans. I believe that with patience and perseverence on the part of the Australian people we will see a decrease in the levels of unemployment and inflation and in high interest rates. This will not happen overnight. The unnecessary rumours that persist at the moment are not making our job any easier. The facts of the last 3 years cannot be discounted. For example, the consumer price index increased by 50 per cent. The average weekly wage rose by approximately 63 per cent. The level of unemployment jumped from 2.4 per cent of the work force to 5.6 per cent of the work force. A dramatic rise of 140 per cent occurred in the number of people registered as unemployed. Expenditure by the Federal Government increased by 99 per cent. Receipts from personal income tax jumped by 105 per cent. The volume of money increased by 63 per cent. 
Tasmania needs a continuing small fruit industry. Whilst the problems of freight and the employment of labour are known, the industry must be given a clear cut assurance by the Liberal-National Country Party coalition that it will have the ability to trade on an equal basis with New Zealand on the local market. Our policy should be to look after our own and not to have a repetition of the situation in which our producers were undercut on raspberries by $200 a tonne by New Zealand producers. Let us have competition, yes; but let us also have protection for our own. This industry and many other industries in Tasmania require clear cut decisions. I believe that we have the Ministers capable of making those decisions and of ensuring a return to economic prosperity and, most importantly, confidence- confidence showing that we wish to continue to employ and to produce. Statistics may indicate that the number of bankruptcies did not increase alarmingly in the last 3 years by comparison with the number of bankruptcies in the 3 years before that; but statistics do not indicate the number of people who left small farms and businesses or who worked with a minimum amount of labour in order to survive. Let me deal further with the Tasmanian fruit industry. Tasmania, often known as the 'Apple Isle', has been exporting high quality apples and pears for more than 90 years. Our fruit industry plays a vital role in the economy of the State, particularly in southern Tasmania where more than 1500 people are directly or indirectly dependent upon that industry for their livelihood. A former Tasmanian Premier, Honourable Angus Bethune, once said that if the apple industry and the zinc works were removed from the economy of Hobart it would collapse. Regrettably, Tasmania's apple industry has declined disastrously in the last 10 years largely as a result of circumstances beyond the control of growers. Those circumstances include ever-increasing costs of production, exorbitant overseas freight rates, currency revaluations and indifference and inaction from Canberra. These have all taken their toll. In 1966 there were more than 1100 registered fruit growers in Tasmania. Today there are fewer than 500. One-third of our orchards have been grubbed out in the last 5 years. Scores of families were literally forced to walk off their properties, leave their districts and travel to the city to seek work. The Huon has not received a fair go from Canberra. It is one of the richest apple growing areas in the world and its orchardists are hard working and efficient. It is scandalous that year after year fruit growers have to wait almost until the opening of the fruit export season before they learn the exact details of the stabilisation scheme that will operate for the season. Growers should know the stabilisation formula no later than November of each year so that they can plan forward for next year's season. It is completely wrong that they should be left in the dark until February or March- literally days before the first ships are due to sail for overseas' markets. 
The apple and pear industry can once again be a great export income earner, not just for Tasmania but for all Australia. It will achieve stability and become a permanent employer for thousands of Australians only if this Government decides here and now that the industry is worth saving and only if it acts promptly and effectively to protect its future. I believe, Tasmania believes and I hope that most honourable members believe, that the apple industry is worth saving. Already my Government has made courageous decisions, sometimes against my own personal judgment. For example, I must in all conscience mention the removal of the funeral benefit of $40 for pensioners. I will always endeavour to express my views as I have already on this subject.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  thank you. 
-Does the Prime Minister recall having warned in an address last Friday to the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures that the prospect was for a tough Budget this year? Was the Prime Minister implying that taxes would be increased during the coming year? What did he imply about the Budget? 
-Did the Prime Minister hold discussions yesterday with the Premier of Tasmania? Did the Premier raise the question of Tasmania's shipping services being concentrated on only one port or the proposal to close 2 airports? Did the Premier express support for the views of the Leader of the Opposition on this matter? 
-Is the Minister for Health aware of the article in this morning's Press in which it is alleged that metropolitan dwellers, especially those connected with motor vehicle transport, are exposed to hazard due to high levels of lead in their bodies? What assurance can the Minister give the House that adequate steps are being taken to protect the health of persons in metropolitan areas from this lead hazard? 

 -Mr Chairman, I rise to speak on this clause because it is one that has caused me considerable concern. 
Yes, sleepless nights. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)The  honourable member will address his remarks to the Chair. 

 -Fine, Mr Chairman. 

It is a very serious matter as far as I am concerned. As a matter of fact I would have walked the floor at night but for the honourable member for Oxley. He baited one of our members and brought this debate to a level of filth as far as I am concerned. It is an issue that in my own electorate has caused those constituents who are pensioners to be concerned about our social welfare objectives and our direction. I too have felt that the withdrawal of this benefit may cast doubts on our overall aims in social welfare policy, but I know that the Government faces severe economic problems. I know that some cuts had to be made. I would have preferred to see this benefit remain but I can understand the dilemma in which the Government finds itself. 
It is under these conditions and these conditions alone that I accept the Government's decision. It is for those reasons that I have tried to explain to my constituents why the Government took this decision. Although I support the decision now I have this to say: I urge the Government in its next review of social welfare benefits to look very closely at the gap that has been left by the withdrawal of this benefit. I hope that the Government will be able to see its way to replace it. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has said that the Income Security Review Committee is examining the whole range of benefits with a view not only of rationalising the odds and ends that now exist, but also of producing a new, better and more meaningful scheme of income assistance for those who are in need. 

 Mr Chairman, these are not just idle words. I come from a working class background and I am proud of it. I have pensioners in my family and I am proud of them. But I have seen them suffer because of the policies of the man who sits opposite, who pretends to be their champion. I have seen members of my family suffer because of the disease called inflation; I have seen them suffer because of unemployment. 
-I will. The deletion of this funeral benefit has caused me concern. I have to say that I believe it is only the first bite at achieving our social welfare objectives. 
-No, it will not make them poorer. It is a program that will not be realised now or perhaps in the next 6 months, but before this Government's term of office is finished the pensioners of Australia wm thank us for what we have done. Those are not ordinary words,  Mr Chairman.  I am convinced that Malcolm Fraser is fair dinkum about pensioners and that at long last pensioners will get a fair go from us instead of being treated like political footballs, as the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and his colleagues opposite are doing tonight. It has been a dashed shame. Several times when a new member in this House has risen to speak he has been called a oncer by honourable members opposite. 
Fine. I will be proud to be a oncer if within 3 years I can contribute to the betterment of the lot of pensioners and the underprivileged of Australia. The honourable member for Oxley and his colleagues can throw as much as they like at me but the pensioners back home know that I am sincere. They know that I Will work for them. The Opposition tonight has thrown slush and muck around. It may have hoped to get results but it will not get those results now because I am awake and a lot of people in Australia are awake also. They know that unlike members of the Labor Party, we on this side stick to our word and we keep our promises. 

 Mr Chairman, I know that the views that I have put and which I so firmly believe in have been heard by the Government and will be considered. I support the Government in what it is trying to do to help the pensioners. I condemn the Labor Party for once again trying to play pOlitiCS with the pensioners of Australia and the underprivileged. 
Progress reported. 
-My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Transport. 
-No it is not on funeral benefits. Behave yourself, bully-beef. 
-No, it is a twicer. My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Transport. What is the present position relating to the construction of a second Derwent crossing north of the Tasman Bridge which is now being repaired? Can the Acting Minister advise details, please? 
-The apple and pear season for 1976 is rapidly drawing to a close. At this early date I for one am unable to assess the total economic result of it. It is well known that I and my colleagues from Tasmania expressed alarm and dissatisfaction at the interim report of the Industries Assistance Commission. That report recommended the continuation of the stabilisation scheme on a modified basis for the 1976 season. With respect to the apple industry, the recommendations were that the maximum level of price support under the scheme in 1976 be $2 a box and the maximum quantity eligible for support be 2 million boxes. It recommended that support should be confined to sales at risk to Europe, including the United Kingdom. Previously stabilisation support for apples covered all apples exported on and at risk basis. 
The Huon Valley, the home of apples in Tasmania, is in my electorate of Franklin. It saddens me, along with many Tasmanians, to see the continual reduction in production and desperate decision to tree-pull to enable orchardists to stay on the land and meet urgent financial commitments. Between October 1973, when the scheme was introduced, and October 1975, 40 per cent of the total tree area was removed. Admittedly some of the trees were old. It is not my intention to criticise governments, but the orchardists must be wondering in what direction to turn. They have answered the call for efficiency to the packing shed and sometimes have worked themselves to a standstill to stay in an industry that has been their life and their livelihood. Spiralling costs of labour and materials, coupled with high transportation costs, make each season a nightmare. But, in a spirit that sometimes the city dweller finds difficult to understand, the growers fight on, hoping that each season will be a better one. In the main, orchardists do not want handouts and a complete reliance on governments for the future. But they do ask for a comparable support to enable them to compete fairly with their competitors, namely Argentina, South Africa and New Zealand. New Zealand, for example, has been aided by its 1975 currency devaluation. 
Exports of Australian apples fell sharply from a peak of 150 000 tonnes in 1971 to 88 000 tonnes in 1975, both of which were offered on production years. Increases in ocean freight costs, particularly since the recent substantial increases in oil prices, have added greatly to the cost of marketing Australian apples overseas. Between 1971 and 1975 the average yearly rate of increase in freight costs to the United Kingdom was 16.4 per cent, which is substantially above the average level of inflation in Australia in those years. By 1 974 freight costs represented just over 50 per cent of the average market value of apples sold in the United Kingdom. The base freight rate for apples sent to the United Kingdom and Europe with the main group of owners of conventional ships in 1975 was $4.43 a carton. In 1976 the freight rate had been increased by 6 per cent to $4.70 a carton. 
Tasmanians should be aware of how vital the apple industry is to the economy. It employs about 2 per cent of the total population and contributes 1 1 per cent of the Tasmanian gross value of agricultural production. One-third of all apples grown in Australia are produced in Tasmania. Tasmania supplies two-thirds of the total Australian export trade. The most important single form of assistance given is through the apple and pear stabilisation scheme. I note with interest that the final report recommended that this assistance should be continued for the 1977 season. Without the scheme there would be only a small apple industry. One is horrified to think what that situation would be like within the economy of Tasmania, especially because of the income the industry generates through shops, transportation, labour, equipment, sales, etc. The main concern of the Australian Government in introducing the scheme was to reduce economic and social disruption at a time of declining profitability in the industry. 
I firmly believe that the scheme should be continued at such a level that prosperity will again return to the Huon and other Australian apple producing areas. The actual amount of stabilisation should be announced well before the ships are due to leave, not as was the case this year. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  whilst appreciative of the problems, should visit the Huon with his advisers and, in consultation with the Tasmanian Government and representatives of the  total fruit  industries, thrash out the problems and endeavour to instil a measure of confidence that has been lacking for many years. 
In many circles a single marketing authority has been discussed, to improve all aspects of distribution from the producer to the ultimate consumer. Even at this early stage there are distinct signs of confidence coming back, and several growers who anticipated grubbing out last season are prepared to carry on. They feel that perhaps a new government sensitive to thenneeds will strive for their future. We, as a government, have a responsibility to ensure that our primary producers are given protection and assistance to enable them to produce the fruits of their labour in a just and profitable way. Both sides of the House must realise that small farms are in a desperate plight. They are part of our heritage and so important to our future survival in a world that already shows signs of massive food shortages. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Does the Government intend to accept the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission regarding assistance to the apple and pear industry for the 1 976-77 season? 
Frankly, as a new member, the continuous character assassinations and the monotonous arguments on money Bills and so on leave me bitterly disillusioned. I now draw the attention of the House to a national problem which deserves to be discussed in a spirit of co-operation. I refer to road safety. The motor vehicle and the resultant problems that have occurred as a result of the massive number of cars on roads throughout Australia today, are of real concern and a vexing problem for governments now and in the future. Motor vehicles dictate our future city planning and dictate by statistics whether we will live to a ripe old age. There are approximately 516 million motor vehicles on the road today and new car registrations for the period 1972-73 numbered 534 139 and for 1974-75 they numbered 624 187. Those figures indicate the growing number of motor vehicles on our roads. 
-That is for Australia. Whilst it is appreciated that the motor vehicle is a convenient mode of transport, it has become a monster, possessed sometimes to the extent of selfishness, an outlet for frustration and a large cost factor in the average family budget. It has been assessed that to own and maintain an average sized motor vehicle over a period of 5 years it could cost as much as $41.86 a week. Unfortunately motor vehicles can kill. Hospitals are full of tragic cases resulting from road accidents. Relatives and friends of victims have had happiness and future prosperity plucked from their reach by what we term the motor vehicle. For the year ended 30 June 1975 some 3656 persons were killed on the roads and 89 782 injured- - some reduced, regrettably and tragically, to vegetables for the rest of their lives. During the peak of 1970 some 3798 deaths were recorded. That was an alarming and tragic year and I think it drew attention to the real problem of road safety. From 1970 we have made great inroads into the problems that are associated with road safety. Despite an increase in population of one million and an increase in registrations of 1 800 000 the staggering death rate has been slowed by concerted efforts in road safety. Seat belts and campaigns stressing safety standards have assisted but more is needed to be done. 
The motor industry is the second largest industry in Australia It employs approximately 254 000 workers in manufacturing, wholesaling and retailing. Consequently, and most importantly, it is a vital and economic growth factor for our future prosperity. We need it but we must be aware of the problems it creates. The motor vehicle is here to stay. The pride and independence of owning one's car, the thrill of keeping up with the model, and possibly the Jones family, is accepted as part of modern living. Consumers buy to satisfy need and this basic human important psychological element in the continual purchase of motor vehicles is with us and will never change. How do we contain this man-made monster? The motor vehicle is a means of transport, of course, but it is also a lethal weapon. Much is said about the tragedy of war and the precious lives lost but we as the Government must make a concerted thrust in the area of road safety. Every State has a responsibility but they must have the support and the expertise of a sympathetic Federal Government prepared to back them and make road safety a national priority. Determined and courageous decisions must be made in car design, standards of safety, road design, compulsory inspection, decisions in behavioural patterns of drivers, alcohol, drugs and eyesight. I could name others. 
The report of the Australian Automobile Association relating to new model defects is alarming, but rather than comment at this stage I would prefer to hear the defence of the industry. As parents, we shudder when our daughters or sons attain the age of sixteen because invariably their birthday request is for a learner-driver's licence. The agonising period for parents until a learner-driver becomes competent is, nevertheless, the beginning of a never ending worry and concern for their safety on the road. We have accepted the ever growing carnage on the roads, the continuing sadness and ever growing frustration that is yours and mine because of the motor vehicle. 
-Thank you. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  chaired a very competent road safety committee which worked extremely hard to present in due course sound recommendations to this Parliament. The committee is now chaired by my colleague, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  and the same spirit of active participation divorced from party politics but with an intense desire to contribute to road safety in Australia is evident and has revived my faith in the parliamentary system. Road safety should be the most important national priority. No expense should be spared in providing research, training and all the necessary aids to assist in reducing the sadness which is caused by the motor vehicle. 
-Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of rumour and speculation to the effect that the Tasmanian Symphony Orchestra is to be abolished? Has the Minister ever heard of any proposals to abolish the orchestra? Has the Australian Broadcasting Commission made any decision to abolish the orchestra? Is there any truth or credence in the rumour that it is Government policy to abolish this very fine orchestra?  (Honourable members interjecting) 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I ask: What is the reaction of the Government to the findings of the Royal Commission on Petroleum? When may we expect any decisions as a result of that Commission for an industry that requires urgent attention, especially in regard to cut price petrol? 
-The problems of road safety are immense and it pleases me to be able to speak once again on a subject which I consider to be of national importance. Forgive me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if I duplicate some of my earlier remarks. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has assured me that no less importance will be placed on road safety as a result of the administrative change and, let me be quite specific, I will not accept less emphasis. Every day an average of 10 people are killed on Australian roads and to the year ended 30 June 1975 there were 89 782 injured. That is frightening but it is real. Man created the monster but to contain it is the responsibility of government. 
During the peak of 1970 some 3798 deaths were recorded. That was an alarming and tragic year and I think it drew attention to the real problem of road safety. Since 1970 we have made great inroads into problems associated with road safety. Despite an increase in population of about one million and an increased number of motor vehicle registrations the staggering death rate has slowed down as a result of concerted efforts in road safety. Seat belts and campaigns stressing safety standards have assisted but more needs to be done. 
The motor vehicle industry is the second largest industry in Australia. It employs approximately 254 000 workers in manufacturing, wholesaleing and retailing. Consequently, and most importantly, it is a vital economic growth factor for our future prosperity. We need it but we must be aware of the problems it creates. The motor vehicle is here to stay. Consumers buy to satisfy need and this basic human and important psychological element in the continual purchase of motor vehicles is with us and will never change. 
How do we contain this man-made monster? The motor vehicle is a means of transport but it is also a lethal weapon. Much is said about the tragedy of war and the precious lives lost but we, that is the Government, must make a concerted thrust in the area of road safety. Every State has a responsibility but the States must have the support of the expertise of a sympathetic Federal Government which is prepared to back them and make road safety a national priority. Determined and courageous decisions must be made in car design. I refer to such things as standards of safety, road design, compulsory inspections, decisions on behavioural patterns of drivers, alcohol, drugs and eyesight, etc. 
The agonising period for parents until a learner-driver becomes competent is nevertheless the beginning of a never ending worry and concern for the safety of their children on the road. We have accepted the ever growing carnage on the roads, the continuing sadness and ever growing frustration that is yours and mine because of the motor vehicle. Much criticism is levelled at dealers and repairers in respect of maintenance etc, but we must be completely fair about the matter. Motor vehicles are driven by various individuals, some careful and some completely irresponsible. I have known cases where new cars have been purchased and never returned for service until virtually the wheels started to fall off. You can leave out a nail in building a house and that does not necessarily mean that the house will fall down but if you leave one split-pin out of a repair to a motor vehicle it invariably means that the car will stop or that it could cause a serious accident. 
In the retail motor industry an Australia-wide program has been developed to improve the level of training of managers, supervisors, tradesmen and semi-skilled staff. This has occurred solely as a result of the promotion of training for industry and commerce, commenced by a former Liberal-Country Party Government in the 1960s and continued by the Labor Government. It arose from a national conference in 1971 called by the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  Growth of the motor industry in postwar years has been exceptional and in the retail sector, which depends far more on skilled staff than the manufacturers, a critical shortage of trained staff has developed. This has been evident not only among tradesmen but in all areas from management down. 
It should also be noted that this is an industry dominated by very small businesses. Less than 2 per cent of them employ over 50 employees and the cost and reliability of vehicle servicing, together with a major element in road safety, depend on the standard of skill and the efficiency of the people working in the industry. Owing to their small size individual firms can do little if anything to improve this standard. The trade associations in the industry, however, prompted and assisted by the Commonwealth, have made a vast amount of progress in 4 years in establishing specialised training courses and increasing the efficiency of the apprenticeship system. This achievement could not have been brought about without the prompting and assistance to which I have referred and the entire project is still not viable without Commonwealth assistance. 
I see the assistance given by the Commonwealth as a catalyst which already has commenced to generate a massive response by the industry to the advantage of the community at large. For example, I see a need in the apprenticeship system. I visualise the serious effect that a decline in apprentice intakes will have on future supplies of skilled tradesmen. Then there is the adverse effect on employment opportunities for school leavers. The existence of age barriers on entry into apprenticeship is such that low intakes in one year cannot readily be compensated for in subsequent years and school leavers who are unable to gain entry are likely to be lost forever to skilled trades. Currently the situation is reaching critical proportions with young applicants for apprenticeships exceeding vacancies by a ratio of 100 to one. If we are to have skilled tradesmen for the future to work on your car and my car it is the responsibility of government to endeavour to improve this situation. 
Today the report from the Standing Committee on Road Safety was presented to Parliament. I must pay tribute to the former Committee which was chaired by the honourable member for Robertson,  Mr Cohen.  My colleague the honourable member for Kennedy,  Mr Katter,  is the new  Chairman.  The same spirit of active participation divorced from Party politics, but with an intense desire to contribute to road safety in Australia, is evident and has revived my faith in the parliamentary system. Road safety should be the most important national priority. No expense should be spared in providing research, training and all the necessary aids to assist in reducing the sadness which is caused by the motor vehicle. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  used this debate today unfortunately to distort the facts and to bring road safety back into the political arena. I compliment my colleague the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  for clarifying some of those distortions in a very fine address. I support the Bill. 
-My concern for the transport problems of Tasmania have been underlined by many concerned constituents. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 10 a.m. tomorrow. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security seen Press reports indicating that there is some confusion in Tasmania over the way in which claims for unemployment benefit from farmers are being processed and whether it is necessary for such claims io go to Canberra for approval if primary producers .are engaged in industries other than beef, dairying Or fruit? Can the Minister inform the House whether this is correct? If it is correct, can steps be taken to review this practice so that claims can be assessed in Tasmania without the need to incur extra time in forwarding them to Canberra? 
I wish to direct my remarks briefly in the time afforded me to the difficult situation of lone parents in society, particularly lone fathers. It must be decided to what extent people should be supported by the community in times of stress or crisis and the need for continuing support for those who have some more permanent social or economic disadvantage. Motherlessness cannot be regarded merely as a private trouble. Because of the fact that it is a product of social change there are more practical grounds for social concern. Family break-up of any kind is a matter of importance to society because the family has a number of important social functions. 
The family has the main responsibility for socialising the next generation. It provides a unique opportunity for the satisfaction of emotional needs and it is an important agent of social control. An incomplete family is likely to find it more difficult than a complete family to carry out these functions. Therefore society is bound to be concerned, and concerned it should be. When a wife and mother is deserted and left without maintenance the community, through welfare benefits, makes provision to take over the breadwinner's role. This leaves the mother free to pursue her accepted role of home maker if she chooses, of course sometimes under great difficulty and strain. It could be argued that if the community is prepared to take the responsibility of breadwinner for a single mother, then it should also take the responsibility for the provision of a substitute mother. However, if a single father stays at home the community frowns on him. 
Whether the father decides to stay at home or continue to work, society is not prepared to support him in his efforts to maintain his family. Deprived of society's acceptance, his self-respect is vulnerable. The widowed must cope with their grief, the divorced with their self-doubts and the unmarried with any feelings of guilt. Above all, they face the mammoth task of convincing themselves and their children that they can manage alone. Many lone parents' needs arise simply from the fact that providing for physical, social and emotional needs of all the family members is usually a full time job for 2 adults. 
The Finer Report, the report of a community on one-parent families in the United Kingdom in July 1974 found that even at the level of disposing of everyday chores and despite the degree of merger between the traditional roles of male and female which has taken place in the last decade, many household tasks still tend to be allocated sexually. The necessity for the lone parent to take on both roles may arise suddenly, leaves no alternative and often is not satisfactorily achieved. There tends to be either a reduction in the tasks performed or a reduction in the adequacy of performance unless there is external assistance. Many men are not acquainted with the skills which are taken for granted in the running of a family home, for example, cooking, house cleaning, budgeting and buying of children's clothes. Men tend to find it difficult to economise on the household shopping and their lack of expertise provides a strong incentive for chosing convenient methods such as instant foods. 
If the father continues his employment it often means that both the housework he has to do when he gets home from work and his job are not properly done. If the children are given tasks to do it may be too much for them. Lack of time is always a major concern. If a father decides to try and keep a family together he will almost certainly find it a struggle to maintain a full time job and still provide for child minding during the time he is away outside school hours. The Finer report found that about one third of lone fathers had to leave their children to their own devices after school. School holidays are also periods of particular financial and emotional strain. Holidays cover about 3 months of the year and it is impossible for a low income earning father to take time off work or to pay for child minding. 
As well as the more tangible needs there is often a need for a lone father to relate to his children in a way which he has not done before. Difficulties such as how to discipline children; how to provide the affection that they previously received from their mother, for example, the mother-daughter relationship, how to support the children when they are embarrassed or hurt by other children who jibe at them about not having a mother. Quite apart from the problems of the lone father in coping with the household and children the lone father needs emotional support purely for himself. Many lone fathers complain of the difficulty in acquiring new friends. Unfortunately, some have reported that they were no longer accepted - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I have spoken twice in the House on road safety. The last occasion on which I spoke I drew attention to the alarming statistics in Australia at the moment which indicate that 10 people are being killed on the roads every day. Last year approximately 90 000 people were injured, some extremely badly. I also drew attention to the fact that - 
-I think this is a very important matter. I would appreciate it if the honourable member would give me 3 or 4 minutes in which to express the seriousness of this situation. On the last occasion I spoke I said that probably when your daughter or my daughter or your son or my son attains the age of sixteen the first thing they will want to do is to obtain a driver's licence. 
I was appalled to read an article which appeared in a large daily newspaper. The article indicated to me quite clearly that we as a Parliament must study very carefully the road safety laws in Australia, particularly the loopholes in the laws which can be responsible for the death of young people on our roads. The article concerned the inquiry into a death of a young boy aged sixteen. It stated: 
The Coroner . . . yesterday expressed concern that there appeared to be loopholes in the law which allowed cars which were 'written off the road ' to be re-registered, and sold without repairs being made. 
It seems appalling that in the year 1976 this situation should occur in a very large city in Australia. The article continued: 
Following the smash, the car was inspected, and it was found that standard coil springs had been refitted before it was sold. A nut had sheered off the upper control arm, and allowed the wheels to fold under. Both front shock absorbers had been ' broken for some time '. 
Had the shock absorbers not been broken, the wheels would not have folded under as far as they did, he said. 
He said he considered the car to be unroadworthy because of the poor condition of the front suspension, worn bushes, broken shock absorbers, a loose wheel cone, oversize tyres, and a modified steering wheel. 
This is an extremely serious situation which may have caused the death of a young boy aged 16 years. Since I have been in Parliament I have been most pleased with the co-operation I have received from the House of Representatives Committee on Road Safety. This Committee seems to be working in harmony and for the betterment of Australia particularly in this serious area. 
I rise to support the Budget and to congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on its preparation and introduction. Unfortunately I have not got time to argue about the matter. I have watched with dismay over a period of many years an apparent lack of concern for an industry that has been thrown literally into chaos, particularly in Victoria. I refer to the petroleum industry, and believe quite firmly that certain recommendations of the Royal Commission on Petroleum, particularly in the area of marketing and pricing, should be the subject of close and careful scrutiny by this Parliament and should not be treated like some previous commissions recommendations have been treated- pidgeon-holed for the term of their natural life. 
The industry's marketing methods have for many years been the subject of substantial criticisms. The criticisms are familiar; they echo those made in many other countries. Through the years, the reports of a long list of commissions of inquiry of one kind or another have referred to them. Specifically the allegations are: Firstly, that there are far too many service stations and that the industry, and through it the community, is burdened by immense over investment in retail outlets; secondly, that motor spirit and other petroleum products are overpriced and that both wholesale and retail margins are excessively high; thirdly, that there are too many oil marketers and that the petroleum market in Australia is irrationally fragmented by up to 9 parallel marketers; fourthly, that the market is sometimes chaotic and often not price competitive; fifthly, that unfair competition and especially discriminatory price practices are rife; sixthly, that the tiers of pricing and the pricing structure generally are archaic and irrational, and, seventhly, that dealers are sometimes dealt with oppressively. 
I believe that on page 2 of the report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum, the introductory paragraph sensibly indicates how the problem should be tackled, and I commend the Commissioners on their far-sightedness and competency in arriving at such an introduction. The report states: 
The Commission finds that all these complaints contain certain signficant elements of truth. Let it be said in the interests of balance that there are elements of positive achievement. How the allegations came to be at least partly true is discussed in the Commission. Not to recriminate or to allot blame, but for the purpose of considering how the industry may be restructured on a basis once more rational and in better interests of the community, and of the oil companies, as well as those who find employment in the industry. 
It would be an indictment on this Parliament to allow this industry to continue on a path of selfdestruction. The lack of apparent intervention and concern by previous governments is illustrated quite clearly in a letter received by the Commissioner of the Royal Commission on Petroleum,  Mr Justice  Collins, on 13 May 1975 from the then Minister for Minerals and Energy, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  The letter states: 
Dear  Mr Justice  Collins; 
I refer to your letter of 24th March enquiring whether my Department is able to provide information about the various topics you have mentioned, namely the Motor Spirit Price War, the relationship between Oil Companies and Service Station Proprietors and the causes and remedies for the proliferation of Service Stations. In summary, these topics all relate to the Retailing of Petroleum products- a matter about which my Department has virtually no information and regrettably it cannot therefore be of any real assistance to you. Your Officers are of course welcome to consult mine to see if the little information they do have on file is of any assistance.  *y 
The real question which then emerges, is: Has Australia suffered adversely when compared with other countries with sophisticated administrations by the apparent neglect of its organ of public administration to intervene in this field of industry in any effective way? Regretfully, the answer must be a strong and definite affirmative. The situation in Victoria is one of absolute chaos. It may be said that the State of Victoria is being subsidised by other States in the respect that because of distinct price cutting areas other States are being disadvantaged price-wise. As at 25 August 1976 the price of super grade motor spirit in cents per imperial gallon was between 54.87 and 77.46 in Victoria; between 74.55 and 75 in New South Wales; between 58.55 and 72.74 in South Australia; 43.64 in Western Australia; between 75.00 and 79.55 in Tasmania and between 64.5 1 and 8 1 .8 in Queensland. 
A recent claim by  Mr Hawke  that the operations in this State of the ACTU-Solo petrol company had saved Melbourne motorists $25m is absolute nonsense. The operations of ACTUSolo have been but an added participation in a pricing structure heavily criticised in the findings of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. All that  Mr Hawke  's ACTU-Solo did was leap upon the already rotting corpse of stable marketing and, with certain exceptional bargaining advantages, join in the feast at the expense of the truly Australian part of the oil industry- the average service station proprietor. Notwithstanding the exaggerated nature of  Mr Hawke  's claims, the Australian public must be grateful to ACTUSolo for highlighting and emphasising the chaotic and inequitable pricing structure in the petrol reselling industry and the exceptional bargaining advantages that companies such as ACTU-Solo are able to procure. 
A growing awareness of the problems likely to be experienced by the introduction of ACTUSolo into the market is occurring in New South Wales. It is evidenced by the stand that the Transport Workers Union and various industry groups have taken. I sincerely trust that before this company makes inroads into that State, creating the problems that inevitably will follow, this Parliament will be able to intervene and remove the unfair competition, the especially discriminatory pricing practices and exceptional bargaining advantages enjoyed not only by ACTU-Solo but also by other price cutting companies in Australia, and, of course, the devious practices by the major oil companies, I do not deny them the right to sell their petrol more cheaply, but I do deny them the right to have an unfair advantage over other legitimate dealers, and, as a subsequence, to force them out of the market place. 
The petroleum industry is a most complicated one, and in the time now left to me I will endeavour to paint a brief picture of the industry from its original growth in the Australian market. I shall refer to the problems that have beset the industry and the recommendations that I feel are essential for the future betterment of the industry for the benefit of the Australian public- the ultimate consumers of petrol. Prior to 1951 most retail outlets were owned and operated by independent dealers. Usually the oil companies installed the pumps and tanks and the dealer would agree to sell only the company's product from those facilities; but the dealer was not tied to one particular brand of petrol. Normally the independent dealer would sell two or three brands. In August 1951 the Shell company initiated solus trading in Australia via contracts whereby the existing dealers agreed to sell only Shell motor spirit. Within 24 hours the Mobil company followed the Shell company's lead. Faced with the loss of access to many existing retail outlets, other companies such as the British Petroleum company lost sales. In part they responded by increasing the emphasis on direct industrial and commercial sales, but inevitably they were forced to purchase sites and open new retail outlets. The Total, Amoco and Philips companies, which entered the Australian market after the introduction of solus trading, similarly were forced to open up new outlets. 
In 1951 there were, according to the Shell company, 1 1 035 reseller outlets in Australia. This figure increased rapidly to more than 2 1 000 by 1 966. Increasingly, competition within the industry was focused on investment in retail outlets in order to acquire a greater share of the market. This imposed high costs on the consumer; but, from the viewpoint of the refining companies, the individual outlet did not need to be profitable. Rather they were concerned to increase total profits earned from the production, refining and distribution system. Profit maximisation in the total system was closely related to sales volume and implied the maintenance of marginal retail outlets. As pointed out by the BP company, the price of individual products is not determined by the mode of distribution and there is no consistent relationship between product price and distribution mode. Overall prices are determined so that the proceeds from the product mix derived from a barrel of crude cover total, costs. The Royal Commission has argued that the companies concerned knew that the introduction of solus trading would lead to a proliferation of outlets and thus to inflation of wholesale and retail distribution costs, as had been experienced previously in the United States of America, the United Kingdom and Canada. 
There were 3 important pre-conditions for the introduction of solus trading. Firstly, the Shell company's action in 1951 was dependent on the legality of exclusive dealing. It is my opinion that solus trading could not have been established with the same speed and probably would not have been introduced at all had the current Trade Practices Act been in force. Secondly, since proliferation of retail outlets increases total distribution costs, solus trading could not have been introduced if there had been a price control system which prevented companies from passing cost increases on to consumers. Unfortunately, the price control system has been based on the passing through of costs over a base level, provided that they can be shown to have been incurred. In general, the increases were accepted. 
Costs were not critically examined to see whether price increases ought to have occurred. Thus, the whole expensive structure of proliferation and uneconomic fragmentation was brought as a cost raising factor into the price structure. Discounting commenced in Victoria around about 1966. It is not an isolated phenomena. Price wars, to some extent, have occurred in cycles throughout the history of the oil industry in Australia and elsewhere. The reasons for the escalation of the price war in Melbourne have been effectively presented during evidence at the Royal Commission and Prices Justification Tribunal hearings. There have always been resellers engaged in the petroleum industry who were prepared to reduce their profits margin and to increase volume, thereby maximising their overall earnings. 
Discounting in Victoria however really accelerated in the late 1960s due to the surplus availability of gasoline from refiners in the Far East and also the availability of terminal tankage at Coote Island. These 2 factors enabled an independent operator to import gasoline and resell it at a price considerably less than the price to the resellers of the major companies. A characteristic price war then followed with some dealers discounting at high levels in order to increase volume followed by withdrawal from discounting in an attempt to restore profitability. During periods of high discounting many resellers approached their suppliers for some kind of financial support. Over the past 10 years or so additional independent companies have been involved in discounting. 
-Of course, my colleague. Some of them originally obtained their products from overseas and some of them now purchase refined products from major integrated companies. Some have purchased crude oil and have arranged processing deals with refiners in Australia. Discounting problems were aggravated when independent suppliers approached dealers of other major companies to negotiate supply contracts. In order to protect their businesses some companies entered into contractual commitments with their resellers at the high discounts which were necessary to compete with the independent suppliers. This again in turn gave the dealers of some major companies sufficient margin to commence discounting aggressively themselves. Evidence submitted in the Royal Commission suggested that one major company had entered into a fixed price contract which, consequent with the effects of subsequent price increases, gave this company's dealer a concession of 12.5c per gallon, which in addition to the then dealer margin gave this dealer an effective 24.75c per gallon margin. 
I wish to give a brief outline of the activities of the independent price discounters. These companies purchase in bulk for redistribution through their own chain of outlets. I wish to draw attention in particular to the Independent Oil Company Pty Ltd. IOC was established in 1969 and operated until 1974. Supplies appear to have been obtained primarily from Korea and installed in facilities owned by Allied Petrochemicals Pty Ltd. IOC may also have purchased supplies through the latter. At its peak in 1973 IOC had some 65 service stations plus 48 other outlets. The failure of the company appears to have been due to the company's obligation to take over an allocation of indigenous crude oil and subsequent disputes over refinement of the same in Australia. IOC was wound up on Mobil's petition on 8 May 1974 and it appears that former allocation of crude was refined and resold to Caltex Oil (Australia) Pty Ltd. The establishment of ACTU Solo enterprises resulted in expansion of retail outlets. Despite the loss of very favourable Mobil contracts ACTU Solo continued to offer off some 16c per gallon below the normal price. It is jointly supplied by Total Australia Ltd and Ampol Petroleum Ltd- the latter, having reached an agreement to process a parcel of indigenous crude oil which was purchased from Allied Petrochemicals who appear to have accrued an allocation as a result of their importing activities on behalf of another company. 
To conclude, the established marketing structure was disrupted by discounters whose initial supply was derived from overseas refiners, distressed cargo and the middle men, such as Allied Petrochemicals Pty Ltd. However, it is interesting to note that Mobil, Ampol, Total, and Esso have all, on occasions, supplied discounters when other supplies have been disrupted. Naturally enough most of the major companies have a policy of supporting their resellers in the face of price cutting competition. The Royal Commission has made four broad recommendations: 
A restructuring of the pricing system; a rationalisation of retail outlets with a consequent reduction in numbers; regulation of dealer-company relationships; and a program of crude oil conservation. 
In the time left to me I should like to comment on the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Pricing. The recommendation of the Commission is that the motor pricing practices should be reformed. I think it is most evident to all honourable members and also to the public that something should be done in this area. The reform necessary would be to place pricing on a rational, economically based and examinable basis. This would involve elimination of gross subsidies and price discrimination which has led to unfair competition. The Commission suggests that an agency should be established and given responsibility for price determination. It further recommends price control, based on the actual demands of local refinery costs, and suggests that posted prices should be established for bulk purchases at the plant, delivered consumer prices and delivered dealer prices. 
The Commission is firmly of the view that it is quite essential that Government retain a flow of organised and regular information relating to all aspects of the industry from all oil companies and other organisations within the industry so that the government is in a position to understand and to evaluate the needs and problems of the industry from the point of view of the Australian community as a whole. From a citizens' viewpoint the industry is a vital, basic commodity industry and for governments the continued flow of energy in a convenient form at a minimum cost is essential to the prosperity and safety of the nation. The function of collecting and disseminating information is only the starting point. The oil industry, Australia wide is in need of reform in areas which have been described in the Royal Commission's report. In all areas the Commission recommends that a system of public administration should be introduced at a national level. In all of the areas there is a body of opinion in favour of such an intervention. The findings and recommendations of the Royal Commission are the first step in obtaining fair and equitable conditions in an industry that has been prostituted for far too long. The ones responsible may rest assured that the fight is just commencing. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the adverse criticism by British fruit importers of the quality of 1976 season Tasmanian apples exported to the United Kingdom? Has the Minister received any advice from the Apple and Pear Corporation pertaining to this serious allegation? If it is true, what real assistance can be given by the Government, keeping in mind the Government's firm commitment to a continuing Tasmanian apple and pear industry? 
I am sorry that this will not be a very happy occasion. I am prompted to speak briefly about the adverse criticism which has been levelled against Tasmanian apples exported to the United Kingdom in the 1976 season. The orchardists in Tasmania are at their wits end. They are demoralised and uncertain about the future and, in point of fact, are being kicked again where it hurts. Tasmania needs a continuing fruit industry. To console those orchardists to a certain degree, I reassure them that they have the full support of all Tasmanian Liberal Party politicians and, hopefully, of all Tasmanian Labor Party politicians in order to ensure that they are given the greatest assistance possible for the forthcoming season. The limited support scheme of the Federal and State governments for this season's crop cannot be regarded as having any degree of permanency. For this reason alone it is imperative, if the industry is to have any future, that marketing arrangements and quality control be first rate. 
If all the words spoken about the need for a national marketing authority could be translated into action, perhaps the future of the industry would be much brighter; but the tortuous history of such moves, including interstate and even intrastate jealousies and the procrastination of politicians, including myself, does not augur well for the establishment of a cohesive marketing set-up. The apple tree frequently figures in mystic literature as the tree of life. In fairy tales the apple appears as the source of immortal youth. With 40 per cent of the trees pulled out since the introduction of the tree-pull scheme, one is apt to become extremely cynical of such romantic sentiments. Economists are funny people. They have always been regarded with suspicion by the man on the land. It cannot be explained, but there is something inherently dangerous about a breed of theorists who come a-preaching to the gentry. When one thinks of Tasmania one does not think of me; one automatically thinks of apples. The Tasmanian apple growers are the best and finest in the world. The orchardists are hard-working and efficient. 
-It seems rather ironic that several weeks ago in this House I spoke at length on the findings of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. I mentioned, among other things, that certain recommendations of the Royal Commission, particularly in the area of marketing and pricing, should be the subject of close and careful scrutiny by this Parliament. I wish to refer again to one recommendation. The Commission is firmly of the view that it is quite essential that government retain a flow of organised and regular information relating to all aspects of the industry from all oil companies and other organisations within the industry so that government is in the position to understand and evaluate the needs and problems of the industry from the point of view of the Australian community as a whole. In fact, the advice given to government is to keep this important industry under close and careful scrutiny. 
I read with alarm- incidentally even before the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission had been tabled in the House- that the IAC had recommended an increase in the price of local crude. I am particularly conscious of the world shortage of oil and the dependence that so much of our technology has upon it and that the IAC is alerting the Government and the people of Australia to the stark realities of the availability and costs of petroleum. An increase in the price of petrol would cause an immediate How-through into wages. There would also be further effects on the consumer price index as costs in almost every facet of the economy would rise to absorb the price increase. It is my firm opinion that no decision should be made to increase oil prices for at least 12 months until our strategy to bring inflation under control has had time to work. I hope that this Parliament will have an opportunity to debate in full the recommendations of the IAC and the report of the Royal Commission into Petroleum. In fact, one recommends an increase in the price and the other suggests indirectly that the wholesale and retail margins are excessively high. The warnings all are flashing red. It is the responsibility of this Parliament to heed them and make decisions in the best interests of the Australian community. For example, never should we be guided by the ill-informed comments of the  president  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  who would not know the difference between castor oil and engine oil until he drank them. At least one would have the desired effect. 
I address my question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. In view of wide public speculation and some confusion, will the Minister advise the House when the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission on local crude oil prices and the report of the Royal Commission into Petroleum will be tabled in the House? 
-On 10 September the Minister for Primary Industry announced Commonwealth support for the 1977 export season for apples and pears. The announcement stated that the Commonwealth would discuss with the State governments possible supplementary support arrangements for 1977 on a joint CommonwealthState support basis. Growers need to know urgently what assistance will be available. 
-Are they any good? They are the best apples in the world. If you are a good boy I will bring you over a few. 
-Yes-and the bishop too. Can the Minister inform the House of the progress of these discussions and when an announcement will be made? 
-My concern and the concern of all sincere responsible members of this House should be directed to the tragic human problem of unemployment. With that thought in mind, I rise to speak briefly about the future of the footwear industry, which was heavily publicised in today's Press. The Industries Assistance Commission is hearing final evidence this week, following the publication of its draft report on its inquiry into the footwear industry. Furthermore, the draft report of an inquiry into the clothing industry is expected towards the end of the year. I am most concerned that if the recommendations contained in the draft report of the IAC are approved there will be a substantial phasing down of the industry over the next 6 years. Industry executives estimate that the IAC's recommendations would mean that under 20 per cent of the current employment in the industry would remain after only 6 years. The IAC's plan for elimination of labour-intensive industries by substantial reductions in levels of protection would undoubtedly lead to substantial increases in unemployment. It is estimated that over 200 000 persons are either directly or indirectly associated with the footwear and clothing industries, and most of these would become unemployed if the Government approved the IAC's recommendations. 
I am disturbed at the allegation by the footwear industry that the IAC is publishing misleading information and that it rejected previous evidence submitted to it. A submission presented by the industry to the IAC at yesterday's hearing in Canberra stated: 
Despite efforts on the part of the industry to broaden the traditional stance of the Commission in relation to the level of assistance afforded industry, such arguments were ignored. 
Additionally, the industry attempted to point out to the Commission the magnitude of selected community costs associated with reallocation of resources. Again, such arguments were ignored. 
The Footwear Council therefore considers that unless the Commission amends its discussion on these matters, the advice given to the Government will not be balanced. 
The Footwear Council also wishes to register with the Commission a protest in the strongest terms possible, regarding the assessment of a $200m net subsidy equivalent resulting from the industry's first request. 
I believe that widespread adverse Press publicity was given to this erroneous information when the first draft report was issued. The industry's assessment of the net subsidy equivalent is $35m. Returning to the footwear industry's submission, it continued: 
The IAC draft report recommends a plan designed to further rationalise the footwear industry when under current conditions it is steadily reducing to an unknown size and structure. This has occurred despite receipt by the Commission of evidence pointing out deteriorating operating conditions and labour wastage. 
The Commission's draft recommendations will lead to an accelerated dismantling of the industry which will produce confusion and hardship for consumers, employees, investors, importers, retailers and Government at a time when Government is attempting to instil confidence in the economy. 
The industry's submission to the IAC echoes the complaints received from a broad range of secondary industry concerning the destructive approach of the Industries Assistance Commission. I urge the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to assess carefully future Industries Assistance Commission reports for the social impact of their restructuring proposals and elements of bias that may be injected by the  Chairman  and his band of armchair theorists. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Many Tasmanian apple growers and I- I point out that I am not an apple grower- have been extremely upset at the implication by the honourable member for Calare that Tasmanian apples are not the best in the world. In view of that will the Minister please advise, firstly, when the freight equalisation problem will be clarified, and secondly, when south bound freight equalisation will be extended to Tasmania? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. The Tasmanian military tattoo, as a result of the one held in 1976, has become a successful tourist attraction, much like the 'Big E and is of benefit to the State's economy. Would the highly respected Minister please assure the House that assistance once again will be given for the 1977 tattoo and clarify  any misunderstandings with the organisers, particularly those relating to the rumoured tattoo in Victoria? 
I rise to support the Bill and to commend the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  for his wellprepared address and constructive remarks. Politicians and primary producers have much in common. Both callings are very precarious. Decisions made by both should be directed at long term objectives. 
Thank you very much. Because of the very nature of their callings, short term expediency prevails and they are forced to act in order to minimise the symptoms when they should be tackling the disease. Many Australian fruitgrowers are facing extreme economic difficulties which stem from the rapid escalation of their costs, particularly for labour and freight, and from their declining competitiveness in world markets. Fruitgrowers and the regions under greatest pressure are those which have been most directly oriented towards exports. This applies particularly to Tasmania, from which two-thirds of the total Australian apple export trade is derived. Reconstruction schemes were introduced in part to assist fruitgrowers who were in financial difficulty to leave the industry, thereby improving their well-being and that of their families, and also to encourage growers to remove their least productive trees, making their farms more economically viable and productive. 
It saddens me, along with many other Tasmanians, to see the continual reduction in production and the desperate decisions to pull trees to enable orchardists to stay on the land and meet urgent financial commitments. Between October 1973, when the scheme was introduced, and October 1975, 40 per cent of the total tree area was pulled. Admittedly, some of the trees were old, but we as politicians allowed a situation to occur which future generations may condemn. Should we have encouraged those hard working people to stay on their farms and fought ferociously against the reasons which necessitated such a plan? The base rate for apples sent to the United Kingdom and Europe in 1969 was approximately $1.70 a case. The anticipated rate for 1976 is $5.50 a case. Since 1971 Australian production costs and international marketing costs have increased more rapidly than they did during the previous decade. In particular, the cost of labour has risen more rapidly than the cost of most other production inputs, and for that reason fruit growers have been more disadvantaged because of increases in their costs of production than most other Australian exporters. The cost of export freight has also risen more rapidly than have most other marketing services. Freight costs thus represent a high proportion of returns for fresh apples and pears sold in Europe. Those costs are currently about 60 per cent. 
Much has been said about the dramatic escalation in freight. After taking inflation into consideration, I believe quite firmly that this Parliament should have a very hard look at all aspects of the stevedoring and shipping industries. 
Perhaps the following questions should be asked: Why has freight increased from $1.70 a case in 1969 to an anticipated $5.50 a case in 1976? Why has the dairly average loading rate for ships for Hobart reduced from 15 494 cases in 1969 to 12 487 cases in 1976? Why is the daily loading rate in Hobart 15 000 cases a vessel, in Nelson, New Zealand, 50 000 cases and in South Africa 90 000 cases? Why was the gang hourly loading rate in 1975-76 296 bushels in Hobart and 418 bushels in the 2 other Tasmanian ports? There are unsuitable ships and frequent delays. We should query the payment of $656,700, excluding salaries, to the 5 directors of the stevedoring firm James Patrick and Co. Pty Ltd for the financial year ended 30 June 1975. That gold is not located in any remote range of hills in the desert heart of Australia but right smack on the wharves of our major ports. 
Tasmania, often known as the 'Apple Isle', has been exporting high quality apples and pears for more than 90 years. Our fruit industry plays a vital role in the economy of the State, particularly in southern Tasmania where more than 1500 people are directly or indirectly employed. That figure has been halved since 1966. The industry represents 1 1 per cent of the Tasmanian gross value of agricultural production as compared to 0.78 per cent in New South Wales, 1.14 per cent in Victoria, 0.60 per cent in Queensland, 0.58 per cent in South Australia and 0.83 per cent in Western Australia. From this comparison it is easy to gauge the importance of the industry to Tasmania. 
Tasmania has been promised a continuing fruit industry. Its orchardists have answered the call for efficiency to the packing shed and sometimes they have worked themselves to a standstill to stay in an industry that has been their life and their livelihood. My colleagues from Tasmania have pledged their support for the apple industry. We are determined to fight at all costs to ensure its economic survival. It can once again be a great income earner, not just for Tasmania but also for Australia. It will achieve stability and provide permanent employment for thousands of Australians only if the Government decides here and now that the industry is worth saving and only if the Government acts promptly and effectively to promote the industry's future. 
-Exactly. In the main orchardists do not want handouts and complete reliance on governments for the future but they do ask for comparable support to enable them to compete fairly with their competitors, namely Argentina, South America and New Zealand. 
The Government has decided to recommend in 1977 a maximum level of support of $2 per box for a maximum quantity eligible for support of 2 million boxes for eligible markets. This will provide for at risk sales to Europe, including Great Britain. I say it should be $3 per box and I will fight determinedly for that particular objective. I am sure that my colleagues from Tasmania will stand by me in this particular fight. 
-And New South Wales; and, of course, Queensland. But 93 per cent of the taxpayers must be prepared to subsidise the 7 per cent who comprise rural producers who grow everything we eat, most of what we clothe ourselves with and much of the materials which give us shelter. In addition they contribute some 40 per cent of the total exports to other communities upon which the high living standards we enjoy are founded. 
The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  needs to study carefully this statement relating to the advantages of Tasmanian producers as compared to the producers of Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria. These advantages are apparently enjoyed because of the freight equalisation plan. But Tasmania does not enjoy these advantages. Tasmania enjoys an advantage only in regard to quality, and that is the particular worry that the other States have. I should just like to repeat a couple of sentences of a speech I made last week because I think they are most applicable tonight in view of the use of the term 'reconstruction'. We need reconstruction but we also need stability, particularly in the apple industry in Tasmania and also in the other States of Australia. I assure Tasmanian apple producers that they have the full support of all Tasmanian Liberal politicians and, I hope, of all Tasmanian Labor Party politicians in order to ensure that they are given the greatest assistance possible for the forthcoming season. The limited support scheme of the Federal and State Governments for this season's crop cannot be regarded as having any degree of permanency. For this reason alone it is imperative, if the industry is to have any future, that marketing arrangements and quality control must be first rate. If all the words spoken about the need for a national marketing authority could be translated into action perhaps the future of the industry would be much brighter. But the tortuous history of such moves, including interstate and even intrastate jealousies andthe procrastination of politicians, including myself, does not auger well for the establishment of a cohesive marketing set-up. 
The apple tree frequently figures in mystic literature as the tree of life. In fairy tales the apple appears as a source of immortal youth. With 40 per cent of apple trees pulled out since the introduction of the tree pull scheme one is apt to become extremely cynical of such romantic sentiments. Economists are funny people. They have always been regarded with suspicion by the man on the land. It cannot be explained that there is something inherently dangerous about a breed of theorists who come a 'preaching to the gentry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware of the difficult circumstances of a number of Tasmanian industries? Is the Government concerned for the well-being of these industries and their employees? Has the Government considered any measures in relation to these industries? 
-I rise to pay compliment to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  for arranging a very novel situation tonight in which the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety went to Yass and talked at first hand with the truck drivers. In particular the Committee looked at the road safety aspects of heavy duty vehicles which was most interesting. I am afraid that sometimes politicians are apt to deal in theoretical situations rather than the practicalities. Tonight we had the opportunity to see these men in action, to find out their problems and to ask them at first hand exactly how they feel about road safety and heavy duty vehicles. I can assure all members of the House that we learned by it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I rise to support the Bills and to add that I am a firm supporter of the provision of more assistance for technical and further education. However, I believe that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has done all within his power to accommodate this important sector in 1977. For the remainder of my speech I should like to deal specifically with the question of apprenticeship, I firmly believe that apprenticeship can be aligned with the real problem of unemployment in Australia today, particularly among the young people. I specifically draw attention to what I thought was a very fine article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 4 November 1976. Under the heading 'Government eventually will have to bite the apprenticeship bullet', it states: 
State and Federal Ministers for Labour and Employment will meet in Melbourne next week to review the existing apprenticeship support programs, and hopefully agree on a new cost-snaring formula between the Commonwealth, States and employers. 
But as the States so far have rejected revenue-raising suggestionsincluding adjustments to payroll tax- to lift their own contributions, and employers are unlikely to be stimulated except by direct subsidy, the likelihood of the meeting reaching any kind of consensus on the point seems remote indeed. 
It is quite possible that the meeting will reach some agreement on ways by which the present program can be made more efficient, and lead to some improvement 
The sorts of suggestions - 
I draw attention to this matterbeing discussed by a working party of officials on the subject, include a greater use of technical schools, particularly during the long vacations, an acceleration of formal off-the-job training, shortening the period of indentures where possible and a more flexible use of pre-apprenticeship training. 
It has also been proposed that the subsidy to employers under the National Apprenticeship Advisory Council be spread over the three or four years of apprenticeship, rather than concentrated in the first year of training. 
Such moves by themselves could result in some reduction of the present high 'wastage' rates of apprentices, calculated to be as disproportionate as 40 per cent in some N.S.W. industries compared with 9 per cent in South Australia. 
Quite apart from those apprentices who simply 'drop out' because of the length of indentures, one of the major problems has been the number whose indentures have been suspended or even cancelled by employers in the second or third year when the NAAS subsidy is not available. 
This trend has become even more noticeable during the current period of economic recession. 
I have paid particular regard to that article because I believe that we as a Government need to look more closely at apprenticeship training. I believe that our training has dropped behind that of other countries and that if we are to improve the unemployment situation amongst the young we need to improve the apprenticeship training. 
Historically, technical and further education appears to have been an area of neglect in Australia. On only 2 occasions in the past has technical and further education reached a prominent position in Australia's post-secondary education system. During the World Wars its role was temporarily expanded to provide required skills and training for servicemen and, during the intermediate post-war years, for ex-servicemen. Apart from those periods of national emergency it is widely considered that technical and further education has been both under-valued by the community and inadequately supported financially. We have an extremely difficult problem with youth unemployment. Before I talk about apprenticeship and the history of apprenticeship let me say that I believe it is important that I have the statistics pertaining to the young recorded in  Hansard  for all honourable members to read. 
There are 2 distinct dimensions to the youth unemployment problem in Australia. The first and most obvious reflects the severe effects of the recession on employment among young people, particularly those in the IS to 19 age group. The second dimension, which is a structural dimension, is reflected in the disturbing long term trend that has been evident since the mid-1960s for the unemployment rates among the 15 to 19 age group to rise independently of the state of the economy. This trend is common to almost all advanced Western countries. The present high levels of youth unemployment are thus the result of severe unemployment superimposed on progressively worsening structural unemployment problems. In other words, unemployment amongst the young is not simply a result of the current general deficiency in labour demand. There is the further underlying dimension to youth unemployment which can be expected to persist irrespective of economic recovery and improved labour demand. Moreover, for reasons indicated later, unemployment among the young is unlikely to abate more than marginally in the forseeable future and a further intensification of the underlying youth problem is to be expected. 
At the end of May 1976 there were 103 000 persons under the age of 2 1 years registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service, including 20 100 school leavers. The severity of the unemployment amongst the young is amply revealed in the following: The unemployment rate for those under 20 years of age in May 1976 was 12.5 per cent, or more than four times the rate of 3 per cent for those aged 20 and over. The unemployment rate for the under-20 age group has been in excess of 10 per cent since November 1974. Although persons under 20 years of age comprise only 12 per cent of the labour force they account for 36 per cent of the total unemployed. There were 35 young persons registered as unemployed for each vacancy registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service at the end of May, compared with the adult unemployed to vacancy ratio of 8.7. The need for employment of the young unemployed is most important and therefore the need for improving the apprenticeship situation is also most important. 
Apprenticeship as a means of teaching the skills of the artisan to young workers dates back at least as far as 2100 BC. The modern system had its origin in the mediaeval guilds and was confirmed in English law under an Elizabethan Act- the Statute of Artificers- in 1563. When the Industrial Revolution created a multiplicity of new trades and the domestic system of production was superseded by factory production, the Statute of Artificers was repealed. That was in 1814. The practice of apprenticeship was not revived until technical education began to develop in the 1870s. In the intervening period 'apprentices' were Poor Law charges on the parish who were sent to work in the cotton mills in the north of England. The apprenticeship system developed by negotiation between union and employer but there was no system of registration and no requirement that the apprentices be indentured or that they undertake work at a technical college. Until 1964 each industry determined its own apprenticeships and, although this was the method of training in the engineering and electrical trades, there was no government regulation. The Industrial Training Act of 1964 aimed at ensuring an adequate supply of skilled men and women and at improving the quality and efficiency of training and sharing costs more evenly between firms. 
Talking more specifically now of the situation in Australia, in the early days the term 'apprentice' was applied to orphans and poor children who were used as cheap labour in farming occupations, husbandry and domestic service. The laws of England covered the apprentices and masters in the colony. The first Australian legislation relating to apprenticeship- the Appren- 'tices Act- was passed in New South Wales in 1894 and it was expanded in the Apprentices Act of 1 90 1 . This was followed by legislation in other . States. Apprenticeship commissions- which exist in 3 States, directorates or executives have been established as statutory authorities in each of the States to control and administer the apprenticeship system. The combined list of apprenticeable occupations under State and Commonwealth awards is over three hundred. The apprenticeable trades are those in which employment as a junior may be undertaken only through a recognised apprenticeship. The Australian Apprenticeship Advisory Committee provides an interstate forum consisting of the permanent heads of the State labour departments and the directors of the technical education and apprenticeship executives in each State. The AAAC operates largely through working parties which make recommendations on various aspects of apprenticeship training. 
Apprenticeship is the normal avenue of entry into a skilled trade. The apprentice is indentured to a master craftsman or tradesman. He receives his practical training on the job and his theoretical training at a technical college or school. In the past such theoretical training was normally on a system of day release or evening classes, but block release for longer periods of full time schooling is becoming more common. During those periods the employer is required to keep the apprentice on full pay. Most States provide technical correspondence courses for country apprentices in remote areas. 
The educational qualifications for entry into an apprenticeship vary among the States and the trades, but normally the equivalent of Grade 10 or Grade 9 schooling is required. The State legislation sets no age limits to entry into apprenticeships, but Federal awards govern the age of entry. The length of apprenticeship is 4 or 5 years. When the apprentice completes his articles he may undertake specialist certificate courses or technician courses. The Australian Government also provides through the Development Bank a number of apprenticeship and scholarship awards for more advanced courses. Since 1971 the Australian Government has assisted the States to employ apprenticeship training advisers who visit industrial establishments and advise employers on apprenticeship training. 
The problems of apprenticeships are extremely difficult and complex. Unfortunately Australia is suffering as a result of a shortage of skilled tradesmen and this is one of the reasons why we have such high unemployment among the young. We must look at this problem most closely. Next year and the year after governments should work to this particular aim of improving the apprenticeship system. An increasing shortage of skilled tradesmen in Australia has become apparent in recent years. The report of the Tripartite Mission of 1968-69 on the training of skilled workers in Europe has made it clear that this shortage is world wide. The Mission pointed out that Australia faced strong competition from developed European countries which offer firm working contracts and the ability to return home regularly. Australia therefore cannot expect to overcome its shortage by increasing the intake of skilled migrant labour. The report recommended that in Australia we update our training methods with a view to meeting from within our own country the greater part of this demand for skilled workmen. 
Some years earlier the. Report of the Committee of Economic Inquiry in 1965, the Vernon Report, pointed out that immigration was a more costly source of skill than training additional craftsmen in Australia. The Committee of Inquiry into Labour Market Training points out that although immigration has been a valuable source of skilled labour in the past it is not clear that intakes have always been sufficiently closely related to labour market needs. It also mentions the inflationary pressures that may arise from immigration. 
The shortage of apprentices and, thus, of skilled workers seems to lie rather with the failure of employers and organisations to train apprentices than with the lack of school leavers applying for apprenticeships. In Victoria alone last year 10 000 applications were unsuccessful. Small companies think they are at risk with indentured apprentices as they are unable to guarantee employment over the period of training. Allied with this is a general feeling that the training periods are too long. More work is let out on contract which means that the range of skills which can be taught is reduced. Subcontractors do not take on apprentices. There has been a tendency to upgrade semi-skilled labour rather than train apprentices. There is a general belief that apprentices are uneconomic and costly and employers prefer to employ newly qualified tradesmen from other firms and organisations. Such activities do not generally improve the situation for young people who are trying to find employment in Australia today. 
In order to encourage employers to train apprentices a number of national schemes have been used. They are good schemes, schemes which we should support and hopefully modify to suit changing conditions in Australia today. I could talk at length of the apprenticeship system but I will not do so. I complete my speech by saying that we need to look firmly at our apprenticeship system and improve it. By doing that, hope- . fully, we will overcome the unemployment situation. 
-On 9 September 1976 I spoke at length on the petroleum industry and the Royal Commission on Petroleum. My opening paragraph read: 
I have watched with dismay over a period of many years an apparent lack of concern for an industry that has been thrown literally into chaos, particularly in Victoria. I refer to the petroleum industry, and believe quite firmly that certain recommendations - 
I emphasise the word 'certain'- of the Royal Commission on Petroleum, particularly in the area of marketing and pricing, should be the subject of close and careful scrutiny by this Parliament and should not be treated like some previous commissions' recommendations have been treated-pigeon-holed for the term of their natural life. 
I went on to mention an introductory paragraph of the report of the Royal Commission. I said that the Commission ought to be commended on it. It stated: 
The Commission finds that all these complaints contain certain significant elements of truth. Let it be said in the interests of balance that there are elements of positive achievement. How the allegations came to be at least partly true is discussed in the Commission. Not to recriminate or to allot blame, but for the purpose of considering how the industry may be restructured on a basis once more rational and in better interests of the community, and of the oil companies, as well as those who find employment in the industry. 
I made that speech on 9 September 1976. In October of this year a booklet was circulated by the Shell Co. of Australia. I do not know whether any other members read this booklet. It was extremely critical of the findings of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. An article in the  Canberra Times  of 20 October 1976 read as follows: 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. 
In answer to my very good friend from Swan, it is. Is the Minister aware that the decision to devalue the Australian dollar has been applauded by the  Chairman  of the Tasmanian State Fruit Board, by all sections ofthe Tasmanian fruit industry and, incidentally, by the Premier of Tasmania? Can the Minister indicate whether reports that this important Tasmanian industry will once again be able to compete on previously uncertain markets and, in fact, could live again, providing new opportunities and stability to a State that is crying out for positive assistance and initiative, are correct? 
-The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  may be a quite nice fellow but he does not know very much about the fruit industry. I think he should go down to the Huon Valley armed with the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission and with the criticisms which he made of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  If he does that he may get a real shock. 
-I will go with you and we will see who comes off the better. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House deeply regrets the great inconvenience and hardship caused to the people of New South Wales as a result of the recent N.S.W. oil industry dispute and resultant bans which have denied the people of that State a vital commodity namely, petrol, and further, expresses its concern at the immense public anxiety people have been subjected to, having to line up in queues for petrol, as well as the effects on hospitals and other essential services and the significant loss of revenue suffered by petrol station proprietors and others employed within the industry together with the overall dampening effect on the economy and morale of the nation, and therefore this House, without desiring to recriminate or to allot blame to any individuals or organisations, considers that the time has now arrived for an urgent and rational restructuring of the Australian oil industry in the interest of the consumers, oil companies, service station proprietors, those employed within the industry and, indeed, in the interests of the total Australian community. 
-I wish to say only a few words. A couple of weeks ago I attended the opening of a home run by the St Vincent De Paul Society for derelict men and young boys who have been deserted. One could not help but realise what a tragic situation confronted these people with the breakdown of the family unit and so on. The point I should like to emphasise tonight is that the home which, as I have mentioned, is run by the St Vincent De Paul Society was an old picture theatre. The home originally was opened to look after derelict men, but the Society found that in 1977 young boys were being deserted and left in the streets in the little town of Launceston. 
-I was staggered, absolutely staggered. Then I thought of politicians like myself- there are many on both sides of the House- who give a lot of Up service. They talk about this sort of a situation but they do not really know how to handle it. They do not know how to get their hands dirty. They do not know how to offer the assistance that these young deserted boys need. We can give money to these institutions. We can set up this and we can set up that but we cannot give these deserted boys a home. When I attended the opening of this home I thought to myself 'what a magnificent organisation this is'. There are many other organisations Uke the St Vincent De Paul Society, such as the Salvation Army, about which I could talk. 
-The children need love and care. They have been deserted. It seemed rather appropriate that they should be housed in an old picture theatre. A picture theatre is a place where young people go to get the enjoyment that they desire when they are young. These deserted boys are living in this place because they need a home and they are trying to put some meaning into their future life. We, as politicians, should start to realise that there are tremendous problems in this area. They are problems about which we should think a little more. We should go to the people in these organisations, talk to them and help them a little more by giving them the moral support that they need. Money is important but they need to know that other people care. If politicians show them interest I think they would have a sense of satisfaction. Many organisations help people in need but some of these organisations do not seem to get the rewards that are necessary. I hope that honourable members in this House Will take note of this problem. In 1977 young people are being deserted and left on the streets. 
-Today I have heard many conflicting reports about the petroleum industry in Australia. Tonight, for the benefit of both sides of the House, I would like to indicate the facts relating to the petroleum industry. 
-I may confuse quite a few. I refer to a letter which was addressed to  Mr Justice  Collins, the Commissioner of the Royal Commission on Petroleum, by the former Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor.  It states: 
I refer to your letter of 24 March enquiring whether my Department is able to provide information about the various topics you have mentioned, namely the motor spirit 'price war', the relationship between oil companies and service station proprietors and the causes and remedies for the proliferation of service stations. 
In summary, these topics all relate to the retailing of petroleum products, a matter about which my Department has virtually no information, and regrettably it cannot therefore be of any real assistance to you. Your officers are of course welcome to consult mine to see if the little information they do have on file is of any assistance. 
Much has been made of Victorian petrol prices being subsidised and of the problems relating to the price of petrol in New South Wales. Honourable members should be aware that not only in New South Wales is the price of petrol extremely high; other States of Australia also experience high prices. For example, in Victoria motorists pay approximately 58c per gallon, in New South Wales 79c, in South Australia a maximum of 76c, in Tasmania 84c and in Queensland 85c. The recent claim by  Mr Bob  Hawke that the operations in Victoria enabled motorists there to benefit by about $25m was absolute nonsense. The operations of ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd have been but an added participation in a pricing structure heavily criticised in the findings of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. All that  Mr Hawke  's ACTU-Solo did was leap upon an already rotten corpse of stable marketing and with certain exceptional bargaining advantages join in the feast at the expense of the truly Australian part of the industry- the average service station proprietor. 
There is a growing awareness of the problems in New South Wales, and that is the reason for the course that the Transport Workers Union and the various industry groups have taken. I sincerely trust that before this company, ACTUSolo, makes inroads into New South Wales, creating the problems that will inevitably follow, this Parliament will be able to intervene and remove the unfair competition, the especially discriminatory price practices and exceptional bargaining advantages enjoyed not only by ACTU-Solo but also by the other price cutting companies now in Australia, and of course the devious practices by the major oil companies. I do not deny them, nor do other honourable members here present, the right to sell their petrol more cheaply. I think we all agree that we should deny them the right of unfair advantage over legitimate dealers and as a consequence force them out of the market place. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the serious problems facing the Tasmanian export apple industry? Does the Minister know what is happening in relation to the Tasmanian Government's proposal to establish an authority to market Tasmanian apples this season? Will Commonwealth moneys be used to support the operation of the authority? This is a very serious question. 
I compliment the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  on his very constructive speech tonight. An attack has been - 
Debate interrupted. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House takes note of the parlous situation of the apple and pear export industry, the heavy increases in the costs of production, wages, stevedoring charges and freights, the diminishing incomes earned by fruit growers and the need to restore confidence and incentive within the industry; 
That this House urges the Government to consider additional assistance and support for the apple and pear export industry; 
That this House deplores the hypocritical attempts by the Opposition to make cheap political capital out of the problems facing those engaged in the apple and pear export industry and recalls that the Opposition when in government betrayed the fruit growers of Australia by failing to give the industry the support and assistance which it had pledged in the election campaign prior to December 1 972. 
-The purpose of the Bill before the House is to extend the existing stabilisation scheme for the export of apples and pears during the 1977 season. This Government properly rejected the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission that the maximum level of support be limited to $1 per box for apples for the 1977 export season. This Government has now legislated 2 years running for a level of support of $2 per box. Last night the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  had the hide to move an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill proposing that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted with a view to bringing forward a Bill increasing the rate of stabilisation payments to $3 a box for apples and $1.20 a box for pears and or some vague provision for supplementary assistance -so vague and indefinite as to be absolutely dangerous. 
Unlike the Opposition I and others on the Government side of the House are genuinely concerned for the welfare of fruit growers as people. We are not prepared to play politics with the fruit industry in the same way as the Opposition is now attempting. We want a proper and rational debate, sound recommendations and effective Government action of the sort indicated in the motion of which I gave notice this morning and which I now read to the House in full: 
1 ) That this House takes note of the parlous situation of the apple and pear export industry, the heavy increases in the costs of production, wages, stevedoring charges and freights; the diminishing incomes earned by fruit growers and the need to restore confidence and incentive within the industry. 
that this House urges the Government to consider additional assistance and support for the apple and pear export industry. 
that this House deplores the hypocritical attempts by the Opposition to make cheap political capital out of the problems facing those engaged in the apple and pear export industry and recalls that the Opposition, when in Government, betrayed the fruit growers of Australia by failing to give the industry the support and assistance which it had pledged in the election campaign prior to December 1 972. 
I repeat that I and my colleagues have fought hard and will continue to fight hard for the welfare of the apple and pear export industry in general and the fruit growers of Tasmania in particular. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland is a cheap political trick. I go further. It is a confidence trick on the fruit industry designed only to taunt and intimidate the Tasmanian back benchers. The Tasmanian back benchers have more guts than the honourable member for Blaxland and all the Opposition put together, and when we fight we really fight. We do not put up a cheap political circus just to get a bit of cheap publicity. Unlike the Opposition, we are united on the Government side of the House and we do not have to look for headlines and grandstanding to prove to our electors that we are having a go for them. 
We believe the apple and pear export industry does need greater assistance and support. We will get that assistance and support the right way. We will not bow down to political standover tactics and intimidation from people like the honourable member for Blaxland. We reject his amendment as a fraud and a confidence trick brought into this House by a man who does not give a damn for the Tasmanian fruit growers. We will get our victories the right way, and the fruit growers of Tasmania know that all Tasmanian members and senators from the Liberal Party can be relied upon to fight to the utmost on their behalf, not to engage in cheap politics as we witnessed from the Australian Labor Party at 10 o'clock last night and no doubt as we will hear later in this debate when there are further murmurs on what should be done about a motion which the Opposition happened to hear would be moved on this side. For these reasons we oppose the Opposition amendment as a worthless piece of paper, an absolute fraud, a confidence trick and a second-grade example of cheap political grandstanding. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware of Press releases indicating that ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd is poised to enter the discount marketing of petroleum in New South Wales? In view of the great concern expressed by honourable members on both sides of the House on the implementation of certain recommendations of the Royal Commission on Petroleum, will the Minister comment on the findings of the Royal Commission that draw particular attention to price discrimination and the activities of ACTU-Solo? 
-The Minister for Transport is no doubt aware that information is circulating in Tasmania that the Tasman Limited will be taken off the run. Can the Minister indicate to the House whether this report is correct? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications been drawn to a sadistic, brutal attack upon a young married woman in Hotham Street, Elsternwick that might have been avoided if 2 telephone boxes where she endeavoured to ring a taxi had not been rendered inoperative by obviously sick, senseless vandals? Will the Minister inform the House how often telephone boxes are inspected for damage? Is vandalism of telephone boxes reaching an unbelievable level? Are any positive steps being taken, including the imposition of heavier penalties, to overcome this serious problem? Will the Minister please report to the House in due course when the boxes in the area mentioned were last inspected? 

 -Mr Speaker, I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House should express its concern for the plight in Australia of lone fathers and the discrimination, hardship and injustice being experienced by thousands of lone fathers and their children: 
That this House is of the opinion that the problems and difficulties faced by lone fathers supporting children arc at least equal to those faced by lone mothers and that this House is therefore of the opinion that it is unjust to deny to lone fathers equality with comparable benefits made available by government to lone mothers: 
That this House is of the opinion that the Government should take appropriate steps to ensure that provision is made in the 1977-78 Budget for lone fathers to be given the right to receive a pension on the same basis as supporting mothers and this House further supports the submissions to the Government by Parents Without Partners (Australia) Incorporated; 
That this House requests the Government to take appropriate action to establish one single category  of  lone parent pensions thereby eliminating the discrimination currently experienced under the present legislative and administrative structure; 
That this House believes particular attention should be paid to the need for Commonwealth Government assistance to supporting fathers in the first months after the death or separation of the marriage partner; and 
That this House believes that there is a real need for the Government to urgently and compassionately investigate the problems facing the children of Australia who are being raised by lone fathers and lone mothers, so that they might face the future with at least the possibility of equal opportunity and advantage which accrues to children fortunate enough to be raised to adulthood in 2-parent families. 
Trade and Commerce between the States 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. 
-It is. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a disgraceful article appearing in today's  Canberra Times'!  Briefly, the article states that the  British Medical Journal  says that an apple a day may not be as effective as salted peanuts in keeping the dentist away. In view of the decline of the apple industry will the Minister have his Department investigate the  British Medical Journal's  outrageous suggestion and also check reports that the Premier of Queensland and the  President  of the United States of America have an undue influence on the  British Medical Journal? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, it is probably appropriate that I should say a few words about aged pensioners when there are so many of them here in Canberra at the moment to lobby and possibly to try to get better conditions. A Federal Government survey released on 14 April 1976 showed that 100 000 aged people are living in sub-standard houses, some of which are structurally inferior and infested with pests and vermin. It further disclosed that 24 200 people over 60 years of age are living in houses or flats which are beyond repair. The survey investigated living conditions of aged people in country and city areas and showed that the proportion of the aged living in unsatisfactory conditions was higher outside capital cities. The State with the highest percentage of aged people in unsatisfactory housing was Tasmania where 19 per cent of such people were involved. I am ashamed and so should the Government of Tasmania be ashamed that Hobart had the worst living conditions for the aged. 
The survey showed that many homes suffered from major problems of sanitation and building construction failure. Such is the tragedy of inflation and such is the difficulty of aged people to keep their homes in a good state of repair. Old age is sometimes referred to as the tragedy of life. It is tragic when elderly people are battling to survive and to live a decent respectable life in their retirement. Politicians, including myself, during election campaigns give a fair bit of lip service and plenty of promises. But the elderly of Australia need action. Every day their plight grows alarmingly. Of course, I cannot classify everybody in Australia as being selfish. But there are many people who cannot wait to turn out their elderly parents from their homes. Many reasons are given including the influence of children, that the parents are hard to live with, etc. But I wonder how many stop to think of the sadness this selfishness can cause. Retirement for many is a misnomer because their post-working years can be the hardest of their lives. Many cross the retirement age line fit and healthy. But their health deteriorates because they are rejected. 
Whilst I appreciate the work done by nursing homes and other institutions, it saddens me greatly when I visit nursing homes- we all do as politicians- and am told with tear in eye: 'I wish I were home and I wish I could get my independence back'. We can learn a lot from the aged, particularly the elderly who are battling today in Australia. I am a firm believer that every endeavour should be made by politicians at every opportunity to overcome the problems. The needs and personal sense of identity and worth of each person is enhanced partly from the development and exercise of individual capacities and partly through the sense of belonging and sharing that comes from participating in the society of others. The elderly in our society need that attention and care. 
I would like to speak briefly also about the apple industry.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will remember that there was a great controversy earlier in the year. We all thought that the apple industry of Tasmania would reach rock bottom. But to my pleasure the people of Tasmania have come forward with propositions. They have worked together in an endeavour to bring back the apple industry to the level we knew 10 years ago. As you would realise,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  since 1 972 we have seen a demise in the industry. It has been reduced by approximately 40 per cent. Many things have been blamed and many persons have been blamed, including the waterside workers of Tasmania. I received a little bulletin from Tasmania called  The Huon News.  It is just a little brief paper but it contains some extraordinary reading. On the front page is an article entitled 'Getting the Apples Moving'. It reads: 
Port Huon Waterside Workers have responded to the urgent crisis in the Export Industry with a sustained high loading rate and careful handling which makes this the best port in the Commonwealth for the export of apples. Their contribution to survival of the industry must be acknowledged with full appreciation of this fact. 
That is most significant and important. I, for one, have said that the handling rates in the ports of Hobart and Port Huon were not satisfactory. The freight rates, of course, were too high and that was one of the reasons why the apple industry decreased so alarmingly. In the same newspaper was an editorial which I thought was perfectly written by somebody who had been involved in the industry for many years. The editorial is entitled 'From Defeat Success! ' and it reads: 
The importance of the Apple and Pear Industry to Tasmania has been of an order which has placed it in the first rank of consideration for most of the past century. This was "The Apple Isle'! It was so because Nature endowed it so generously with the right climate and the right soils and even the right harbours. 
This pre-eminence will not lightly be thrown away by the people of Tasmania; nor, if justly understood, would centralised Federal Power destroy it. Yet there is a real danger that this could happen. If it did, it would be clear warning of an unhealthy trend which could eventually destroy the Federal System. 
Already half the Industry has been knocked down and sold for almost nothing under the Tree-Pull Scheme. And half the population of the apple districts are seeking their bread amongst strangers. Before the huge inflationary developments of the 1 970 's this industry was estimated to be worth $25 million a year to this State. In the last seven years rising costs and prices have doubled. So we deal with a potential $50 million a year- of which at least half has been lost. Lost? It has been thrown down the drain by ineptitude in high places! 
In Tasmania, this year, a very good fight is being put up by the people- who are the Industry. An Apple and Pear Marketing Authority, has been set up; twelve years after the need for it was fully realised by the majority of growers- many now no longer  growers  because of just that lack! 
At the very time when the former entrepreneurs said 'nothing can be done for export', the Interim Authority snatched success from the very jaws of defeat. Finance was arranged, ships were found and selling arrangements organised. By a miracle the Industry has functioned, problems of fruit size and quality have been overcome in a very difficult year; and loading of the crop, now within sight of end of season for the U.K. and Europe, has proceeded with a new momentum and smoothness, in respect of which the cooperation of the Waterside Workers, the Carriers and the Packers has enabled full advantage to be taken of Port Huon as the major centre of export. 
This has been a most important factor. To old hands on the wharf, of whom the writer is one, the speed of handling, the care with which the fruit is handled, and the will to do the job, takes us back forty years to the time when most of the personnel of Port Huon Branch were apple growers and their sons. We knew then that we were the best team of any Australian port; and the men and boys, this year, have shown themselves just as good- which is saying something! 
The point I make is that it can be done and, with a little initiative, soundness and conscientious work, the apple industry in Tasmania once again will be revived and Tasmania once again will be known with pride as the apple isle. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is it a fact that Ampol Petroleum has applied to the Prices Justification Tribual for an increase of 3.8c a gallon in the price of petrol? Is it a fact that the same company sells to cut price petrol jobbers in Victoria, particularly ACTU-Solo, at rates of up to 12c a gallon below the wholesale price, in competition with its own legitimate dealers? Is it a fact that dealers in New South Wales are contemplating aligning themselves with oil industry unions in an attempt to remove discriminatory pricing in the oil industry? Is the Minister able to advise the House when reforms will be introducted to overcome the archaic method of allocating quotas of local crude oil based on sales volume for an industry that reeks of difficulties, intrigue and deception? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
-It will not be about apples and pears tonight. 
-No, it is not about that either. It might seem rather unusual for me to bring into the Parliament a matter that probably does not pertain to national issues, but many young people in Australia tonight and quite a few people in America, of course, are lamenting the fact that Elvis Presley passed away. One could not help but note the words that were said about Elvis Presley by  President  Carter. I think his words indicated what the people of America thought of Elvis Presley because I think he was symbolic of the American life style and of the changes that have taken place over the past 20 years. I raise this matter as a mark of respect for a person who brought a lot of enjoyment not only to the people of America but also to many people in Australia. Many young people as well as many older people liked Elvis Presley as a singer and are very sorry that he passed away under sad and sorry circumstances. I thought we ought to stop and think about this at this time of stress. There seem to be problems all around us. The  President  of the United States was reported to have said this about Elvis Presley: 
He was a symbol of the vitality, rebelliousness and good humour of the United States. His death deprives our country of a part of itself. 
The newspaper article went on to state: 
The White House, however, did not declare a day of national mourning, as suggested by thousands of phone callers. 

 Mr Carter was reported to have stated further: 
Elvis Presley was unique and irreplaceable. More than 20 years ago, he burst on the scene with an impact that was unprecedented, and will probably never be equalled. 
As a mark of respect I, as a Federal politician, say that I am sorry that Elvis Presley passed away. I sympathise with many Americans in this matter. Elvis Presley was symbolic of a stage in their difficult times. I hope that we can always remember him. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Is the Minister for Health aware of notices being issued by the Health Benefits Council of Tasmania that the Government intends withdrawing subsidies to public and private hospital patients and nursing home patients? In view of the undoubted concern that the sick and aged and, of course, their families must be experiencing, will the Minister make a clear cut statement on this extremely important issue? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. It is nice to see the Minister back fit and well. I assure him that my question will not bowl him to leg. Is the Minister aware of the great disparity between the retail price of petrol in Melbourne and that in other areas of Australia? Is the Minister aware of the activities of ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd and other price cutting jobbers, more particularly the oil companies involved-Ampol, Total and Esso- who some would say are not acting illegally but who I say are acting immorally? Is the Minister aware of the great concern being expressed within the industry? In view of my comments - 
-I direct my remarks to oil conservation. Oil plays a key role in the transport on which the modern world depends. It is also the energy source for which we face the most critical shortages. If the present situation is permitted to continue the market price for oil could increase considerably. Governments the world over must make every attempt to forestall such a demand-supply squeeze. They must take active steps to mitigate the effects of having dear oil, which is a certainty irrespective of whether the world demand outpaces the availability. Oil supplies 45 per cent of the world's energy needs and 47 per cent of Australia's energy needs. It will remain for decades the most important source of energy. The Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  is now preparing a statement that will deal comprehensively with all forms of energy. He has already indicated that a central energy policy must be one of three objectives. 
Firstly, we must encourage oil exploration and development. Secondly, we must encourage greater economies of energy usage and encourage people to use other fuels in preference to oil. Thirdly, we must foster a more intensive search for alternatives to oil. Each of those objectives requires the price to be increased. That is why the Minister has constantly argued that we should move gradually and predictably towards higher oil prices. The motor vehicle manufacturers have a part to play in this regard. The 4-cyUnder motor vehicle is extremely popular in the Aus.tralian market today, but I am sure that it will increase in popularity and ways of minimising and reducing the petrol consumption will be prime in the minds of the manufacturers if they are to appeal to the consumers in the long term. 
There are two alternatives to petrol. One of them has already been mentioned tonight. Liquefied petroleum gas is an accepted fuel. Australia has vast quantities of it. Cars and other vehicles have, can and do run successfully on LPG. There are many claims that those vehicles are easier to start, require fewer oil changes, have longer engine life, require less mechanical attention to the engines and emit greatly lowered pollutants in the air, and it is one grade of fuel. Admittedly there are disabilities. There are hmited filling stations, conversions are always needed, the public dislikes to change and, of course, there are the fuel tax problems. But at the moment there is no inducement to convert to LP gas. If we can get options on engines, brakes, unholstery and gear boxes at time of purchase, it only seems reasonable and sensible that we should have an alternative, and that alternative could be a conversion to LP gas. 
Some incentive must be offered to car builders and the buying public to make the change. As, for example, the Commonwealth Government buys its cars from the major distributors, perhaps it could request them to set a base of, say, approximately 25 per cent of each year's purchases as cars equipped for the use of LP gas. That would cause LPG to become available in the open market in due course. Every mile done on LP gas in Australia represents that saving in energy purchases in petrol from overseas, savings in currency, the employment of Australians and less dependence upon foreign prices. 
It is interesting to note that the conversion from petrol driven motors to LPG costs approximately $400 to $600. Much of the equipment is transferable to subsequent cars and can therefore be amortised over the life of several cars. I have looked into this matter very carefully. Many taxis in Melbourne are using LPG. As a matter of fact their drivers swear by it. I believe that governments, manufacturers and distributors have a part to play in the conservation of the precious commodity of oil. On current retail costs most taxi operators would expect a fuel saving of about 6c per litre with an average consumption of over 18,000 litres per annum. That gives an annual cost saving of the order of $1,080, coupled with the additional savings which I mentioned previously, such as extended oil changes, cleaner engine running and hence longer engine life and longer spark plug life, added to the benefits of conversion to LP gas would make it desirable and also economical, particularly in lieu of the impending price increases of petrol. 
To summarise, the advantages of LP gas again are: Firstly, a reduction of exhaust pollution to about 60 per cent less than that of pre-controlled petrol driven engines; secondly, increased life of oil, oil filters, carburettors, batteries and spark plugs, which represents a saving of at least 25c a gallon. Again, the cost of conversion, as I mentioned previously, would be about $600 at the maximum. But the cost occurs only once. At a cost of about $65 the conversion kit can be switched to a new vehicle. Conversion is remarkably simple. All that is needed is a gas tank, usually of about 15 gallons capacity, a converter which is used to reduce the gas from high pressure to atmospheric pressure, and a mixer on top of the carburettor. A converted vehicle usually could be run on petrol or gas, which is a very important point, the selection switch being located on the dashboard. 
Australia is one of the world's largest producers of LP gas but it exports most of its production. A royal commission into the use of LPG recently was critical of the huge amounts exported to Japan. Esso-BHP's production in Bass Strait during 1976 was a staggering 1.9 million tonnes, of which 1.3 million tonnes was exported to Japan at about $70 per tonne. Domestic consumption was a mere 433,285 tonnes. It is well known in industry circles that Australia's biggest reserves of LPG were yet to be tapped on the North- West Shelf of Western Australia. 
-I mentioned that; the honourable member is too late. Most petroleum sources do not see LPG as being a viable alternative to petrol for the average motorist because the cost of conversion would take about four years to recoup. I have mentioned the factor of being able to transfer the kit, and that is the important issue. The cost of installing privately a high pressure tank above ground would be prohibitive, and regulations forbid highly explosive gas to be stored close to a dwelling or footpath. It has been argued - I agree with this-that in a gas powered car about 10 per cent of power is lost in top gear but the car runs and idles more smoothly. 
In the United Kingdom and in Europe LPG has been used increasingly for many years. It was used extensively as an alternative fuel in oil starved Britain during World War II. For some years the big petrol companies saw it as a threat to their petrol sales, but today it is a most important alternative fuel in the United Kingdom and in such countries as Belgium, Holland, Italy, West Germany and Spain where it is marketed alongside petrol from its own pump and where it is advertised almost extensively as petrol. I am sure that with education, correct promotion and initiatives on the part of the Government, partial conversion to LP gas would greatly reduce the amount of petrol used in Australia each year. 
I realise that many oil companies have looked at the possibility of recycling waste oil. At the moment waste oil is a pollutant in many areas of Australia. It is tipped on the ground; it is tipped into the rivers; it pollutes playground areas; and it has been an immense problem to local government authorities. I believe that initiatives should be taken by industry and by government to recycle oil, and so once again prove that recycled oil can be used in the modern motor car. I realise that the Opposition has condemned the Government's new policy. It has talked about the orientation to public transport, but I point out that it toiled for the Royal Commission into petroleum but it has been extremely quiet about it. Could it be that the Opposition, as a party, is benefiting from the sale of petroleum by ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd. That fact has already been reported frequently. I would hate to call  Mr Hawke  a fibber, but it has been said that a promise of one cent a gallon payable by ACTU-Solo to the Labor Council of New South Wales was made and that in fact the Transport Workers Union threatened to go on strike if that one cent was not paid. So I ask honourable members opposite not to talk about the Royal Commission. 
-That is all right; I love doing it. I believe that the actions of ACTU-Solo, more than any other of the price-cutting jobbers, in a roundabout way is a prime reason why oil companies are in such an unenviable position regarding profitability brought on by the discounting practised in Melbourne and other capital cities. I say quite firmly that I am not against price cutting; only where discrimination - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 10 March 1977 I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Construction. Has he seen recent reports in the Tasmanian Press that the State Government and the Federal Government are withholding work from the building and construction industry? This has, of course, created untold uncertainty and unnecessary concern. Does the Minister recall my representation, as well as those of my colleagues, for increased Commonwealth activity in Tasmania to assist in alleviating unemployment, particularly among young people? In view of the statements in the Press and others on television, where does the truth lie? 
I am pleased to enter the debate. My remarks will be confined to the report by  Sir Bede  Callaghan into the structure of industry and the employment situation in Tasmania. The report was tabled by  Senator Robert  Cotton, the Minister for Industry and Commerce, on 22 September 1977. The inquiry was instituted in December 1976 by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  following an approach from the Premier of Tasmania in October 1976 for assistance to combat unemployment in Tasmania. The inquiry included a program of public hearings in all major Tasmanian centres. Submissions were received from a wide range of interested individuals, companies organisations and government agencies. The report, which is of wide ranging interest, has particular importance to the Government and the people of Tasmania. Apart from its general findings and many particular recommendations, the report has drawn together much useful information about the Tasmanian economy, including information on unemployment in the State and the out migration of young people, a particular problem in Tasmania where unfortunately the young people, including brilliant young students, find it necessary sometimes to leave the State to find worthwhile and meaningful employment. The report also deals with the structure of industry and the State's transport requirements and services. 
The report provides an overview of the Tasmanian economy which has not previously been enunciated and which has important long-term policy implications. The report contains many specific recommendations and suggestions which are directed by  Sir Bede  at the Commonwealth Government, the Tasmanian Government and the private sector, either separately or jointly. Action has already been taken in respect of some of the specific recommendations which fall within the ambit of the Commonwealth Government. Firstly, details have now been announced of the south bound component of the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme which complements the assistance already provided under the north bound component. The scheme is designed to remove freight disadvantages suffered by important sections of the Tasmanian industry. An amount of $23m has been budgeted for the scheme in 1977-78, including an amount of $6m for the south bound component. Both the north bound and south bound components apply to shipments from 1 July 1976. The freight equalisation plans have created a unique opportunity for Tasmania to build a base for future industries and also for present industries to be able to compete favourably with industries on the mainland. 
The unemployment problem in Tasmania is, of course, of great concern. I have mentioned already that we have a tragic brain drain from Tasmania. We need to be able to encourage .industries to come to Tasmania. The way of life there is pleasant. There is an abundance of relatively cheap hydro-electric power. Governments, both State and Federal, need to plan carefully for the future to attract industries that will make the State self-sufficient in being able to employ its own people and to enable it to become economically viable once again. Some of  Sir Bede  Callaghan 's recommendations have been queried. Some have been criticised by various members of the State Government and also the Federal Opposition but I believe and my colleagues believe that  Sir Bede  Callaghan has told the truth about the problems associated with Tasmania. It is up to the Government to instigate recommendations that will overcome what is evident to many people who live in Tasmania and on the mainland. He said that there is room for improvement in the efficiency of Tasmanian industries. This is an area where both the Commonwealth and State Governments can play a functional role. 
Emphasis on increased production of goods and services is called for rather than unrealistic population and job creation targets. The development of efficient secondary and tertiary industry sectors will create further employment opportunities in the long term. Creation of less efficient, more labour intensive industries will most likely create further problems. As well as the need for increased efficient use of resources, there is a need to create a business climate conducive to the introduction of new technologies. Stability and development of viable Tasmanian economic activity should be regarded as the most relevant objectives for the future as opposed to forced growth based on unrealistic targets. At the same time it is accepted that Tasmania is an unusual area endowed with certain natural advantages which provide a special life style appealing to a significant number of people. No doubt most residents would wish to see these attributes maintained. 
-I agree with the honourable member for Denison. It is the best place in the world. Many industries in Tasmania over the last five years have experienced great difficulty in maintaining their present level of employment opportunities and their ability to compete on overseas markets and local markets. Many theorists have put forward recommendations and ideas on how they should be restructured. I refer, for example, to the Mount Lyell copper mine. My colleague the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  is beside me. If perchance the Mount Lyell mine should close down it would create a situation in Tasmania whereby the town of Queenstown would virtually close down. 
-The honourable member says he will not let that happen. He will fight all the way and I agree with him. That is what we should be fighting for. One must always consider the social implications. If industries in Tasmania are not assisted, unfortunately men and women will be put out of work and will find it necessary to leave their homes. This, of course, creates difficulties in other areas. Some of the manufacturers in Tasmania have been criticised but I do not believe they should be criticised. Most of them are efficient and have been trying to do their best, not only for the State and their companies but also for the people who are employed there. I only wish that critics of industry and free enterprise would realise that the job of running industry is a ferociously difficult one. It is full of snares and pitfalls. The penalties of failure are high and real success comes only after years of unremitting hard work and effort, shrewd judgment and ingenuity and years of leaping boldly into the unknown and being able to overcome the problems when they occur. It is time it was said plainly and openly that the swings and vacillations and frequent anti-industrial bias of governments and their advisers have done no more than possibly create an element of uncertainty in industry. Many times companies try to plan their finances years ahead. The whole structure of industry is thrown out with an air of uncertainty because of the ceaseless meddling of people supposedly knowledgeable of the industry and the running of companies. 
Industries find the cash to pay the wages, the pensions and the taxes. They do not ask for financial assistance for that. One can compare it with the Public Service. What they do ask for is protection, no more and no less. I believe it is the responsibility of government to protect people who work within our own Australian industries. I say that, of course, particularly pertaining to the industries in Tasmania. The Tasmanian State Government has a responsibility. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  says that there is a very good Labor Government in 
Tasmania. It is quick to tell everybody in Tasmania that it has been in power for 43 years, but for one brief period. Now, when the chips are down, I believe it should stop criticising the Federal Government and get on with the job of reorganising the fruit industry, particularly the apple industry. The Tasmanian apple industry is in a great situation at the moment- it is in complete chaos. Nobody knows what is going to happen tomorrow. So I believe that the governments should get their heads together and should start realising that it is an important industry to Tasmania and that it requires the help of both governments to overcome the problems. 
-Yes, I agree with what the honourable member for Wilmot says. Tasmania is still known as the apple isle but in fact that industry is in a complete state of chaos. Twothirds of the total number of trees have been pulled out. Many growers have found it necessaryI have said this many times before- to seek employment elsewhere. It is a tragedy. 
I turn now to the tourist industry. I know that many people are involved in that industry and are doing their utmost to promote Tasmania to give it the impetus that is required to make it a tourist attraction comparable with some that one could name on the mainland. Of course, they could be critical of the cost of air fares in and out of Tasmania but they have to show the initiative, they have to show the marketing ability to create further that industry. The attraction to Tasmania of industries which can employ the young people is a grave responsibility of the State Government. If it co-operates with the Federal Government in a far better manner than it has done in the last couple of years I believe that will greatly enhance its opportunity to attract those industries. 
I make special mention of the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee).  He came down to Tasmania, met the people on the factory floor, went through Universal Textiles Australia Ltd and talked about productivity, went to the Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd and travelled all over Tasmania. I think it is most significant that a Minister is prepared to go to Tasmania. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I do not wish to delay the House for very long. Sometimes a lot of people think that politicians are insensitive and do not really care about the ordinary things that are happening in Australia and in the rest of the world today. 
-No, not the honourable member for Franklin. About three or four weeks ago in this House I made a passing remark about the late Elvis Presley. I was virtually attacked by some people, but others gave me a little praise. Tonight I thought it would be wise if the House paid a mark of respect to the late Bing Crosby who brought a lot of enjoyment to a lot of very ordinary people. I think that is most important. Sometimes we become very staid, very stodgy and far removed from the ordinary things that affect our lives. So to all the people who mourn the loss of Bing Crosby, I extend my sympathy and, I am sure, the sympathy of the House. 
-You are too late for Elvis, Bert. I said something about him three weeks ago. I should also like to pay a mark of respect to Bing Crosby's family. 
I draw the attention of the Committee to a national problem which deserves to be discussed in a spirit of co-operation. I refer to road safety. The motor vehicle and the resultant problems that have occurred as a result of the massive number of cars on the roads throughout Australia today represent a real problem. They are of vexing concern to the present Government and will present the same problems for future governments. Motor vehicles dictate our future city planning and they dictate whether we live to a ripe old age. There are approximately 5.5 million motor vehicles on our roads today. New car registrations for the period 1972-73 numbered 534,139 and for 1974-75 they numbered 624,187. Those figures indicate the growing number of motor vehicles being put on our roads. 
Whilst it is appreciated that the motor vehicle is a convenient mode of transport, it has become a monster. Sometimes it is possessed to the extent of selfishness, provides an outlet for frustration, and represents a large cost factor in the average family budget. Unfortunately, motor vehicles can kill. Hospitals are full of tragic cases resulting from road accidents. Relatives and friends of victims have had happiness and future prosperity plucked from their very reach by the motor vehicle. During the year ended 30 June 1 975 some 3,656 people were killed on the roads and approximately 90,000 people were injured. 
One out of ten people killed on the roads today die as a result of motor cycle accidents. Unfortunately most of those people are under the age of 21 years. Governments in all States of Australia should realise that we need uniformity in our legislation and pre-training needs to be provided to young motor cyclists before they are allowed on the roads because, unfortunately, sometimes they go out and kill themselves. It has been said that approximately 2 per cent of Australians who, when they ride motor cycles or drive motor cars, do not care whether they live or die. That seems incredible to me. The sooner governments realise that this is a major problem, the sooner we will overcome this sad and sorry situation in which young people, and of course older people, are killed on the roads in Australia today. 
From 1970 we have made great inroads into the problems associated with road safety. Despite an increase in population of one million and an increase in registrations of 1,800,000, the staggering death rate has been slowed down by concerted efforts, particularly in relation to seat belt legislation, by inspection of motor vehicles and also by an improvement in the standard of motor vehicles. The motor industry is the second largest industry in Australia. It employs approximately 254,000 workers in manufacturing, wholesaling and retailing. Consequently, and most importantly, it is a vital and economic growth factor for our future prosperity. We need it but we must be aware of the problems it creates. The motor vehicle is here to stay. I realise that the pride of independence of owning one's car and the thrill of keeping up with the models and possibly with the Jones family are allimportant out we must realise too that it is a national responsibility to reduce the toll on Australia's roads today. 
-Yes, of course. The honourable member for Shortland has mentioned drinking. It is a most important factor in the number of deaths in Australia today but sometimes people seem to think that drink is the cause. When an accident has occurred and somebody is killed, if there is a smell of alcohol or a percentage of alcohol in the victim's blood it is assumed that the accident has been caused by drink. But there are many other factors, and the sooner we realise- 
-Of course it is No. 1, but we need to tackle the problem constructively and find out exactly what occurred. We need to find out whether it was a fault of the vehicle, whether it was a fault of the road or whether it was caused by other contingencies. The sooner we do that, the sooner we will be able to overcome the real problem. The honourable member's point is well taken. The motor vehicle is a lethal weapon. Much is said about the tragedy of war and the precious lives lost but we as a Government must make a concerted thrust in the area of road safety. Every State has a responsibility but the States must have the support and the expertise of a sympathetic Federal government prepared to back them and to make road safety a national priority. Determined and courageous decisions must be made in car design, standards of safety, road design, compulsory inspections, behavioural patterns of drivers and, of course, alcohol, drugs and eyesight. I could name other factors, but the sooner we tackle these problems, the better. 
-Yes, in the Northern Territory. The retail motor industry in Australia has developed to improve the level of draining of managerial staff to take care of and to look after motor vehicles. I believe that is important also. It should also be noted that this is an industry dominated by very small businesses and sometimes these businesses are unable to provide the service and care essential. It is taken for granted. I repeat that the sooner we tackle the problem constructively, with uniformity, force and determination the sooner we will be able to reduce the number of lives lost on the roads each year. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware that most motor vehicles can and do run economically and efficiently on liquid petroleum gas? Will the Minister give consideration to introducing a program of converting 25 per cent of all Commonwealth cars to LPG and ensuring further that 25 per cent of all new motor vehicle purchasers are offered an alternativemotor vehicles which can run on LPG? 
-I commend the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  and I trust that his stay in Parliament will be a happy one and fruitful to him. Of course, many of us share some of the problems that he has in his electorate, and I say that with sincerity. Before we were elected we indicated to the people of Australia that we would intervene in the incredible situation that has occurred in Australia over the past five years and I believe quite firmly that it has come about by the introduction into the industrial arena of the militant left wing trade unionists who have been intent on destroying the confidence, the economy and the right to work of many Australians. They repeat consistently that they are there to help and work for the worker but unfortunately they are disregarding one important point- that there are many Australians, many good sound unionists, who desire only to be able to work, who desire only to be able to obtain employment and not be consistently harassed and perplexed by the continuous interjection, manipulation and disruptive attitudes of self-professed leaders of the trade union movement. We said quite specifically in our employment and industrial relations policy that we would propose that a third arm of the conciliation and arbitration administration be established and its purpose will be to secure observance of industrial law. It shall be called the Industrial Relations Bureau. 
We now have this legislation and while some will say- and say it continuously- that it will not overcome the problems confronting Australia at the moment at least it will indicate to the sane Australian that there is at least legislation, that there is a law that should be observed by all involved in the trade union movement. I believe, irrespective of what some people may say, that this will unite the Left and the Right in a force that will continually perturb governments from here on and I believe that it will sort out the militants, it will sort out the trouble makers, the ones who are hell-bent on disrupting this nation, hellbent on destroying the prosperity of Australia and heU-bent on destroying this country. 
One of the fundamental tenets of the Government's industrial relations policy is that each member of the community has both rights and obligations. Those rights must be protected and the obligations must be met. The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act is perhaps the paramount Australian industrial statute. It is the principal means of giving legal expression to industrial rights and obligations. While it is not, and cannot be, a complete statement of those rights and obligations it certainly is the vehicle which establishes the framework of those rights and obligations by defining the roles and responsibilities of the parties to industrial relations and providing for an expression of the public interest.  (Quorum formed.)  Over the past year we have experienced the crippling effects of strikes by fuel tanker drivers, aircraft refuellers and by air traffic controllers. We have been, and are, witnessing the frightening capacity of a relatively small group of unionists in the Victorian power industry to wreak havoc on the entire community. Such situations demand that action be taken. It is paramount that unions recognise their obligations to and the legitimate interests of the Australian community. 
The Government recognises that strong and effective organisations of employees and employers are fundamental to the effective conduct of industrial relations. Indeed, the formation of such organisations is one of the principal objects of the Act. However, organisations are meant to protect and enlarge the rights of individuals and not to undermine their liberties. Honourable members are only too well aware that disputes affecting trade and commerce or essential services have imposed profound economic dislocation on the community. Of course, the topic of industrial disputation is particularly vital to Tasmania, my home State, because of its dependence on air and sea traffic. Even the Australian Council of Trade Unions recognised the special position of Tasmania in 1971 when the ACTU executive declared that the jobs of Tasmanian workers depend on regular, reliable and adequate shipping services and that in respect of any shipping strike the participants are to give consideration to the particular position of Tasmania 's economy and to take such steps as are practicable and required to cause the least disruption. In the current difficult economic and employment situation the observance of that decision is of the greatest importance to the workers of Tasmania 
In this country we have an excellent institutional framework for settling disputes impartially through the processes of conciliation and arbitration. Unfortunately, there are many involved in the trade union movement who do not believe in the decision of the umpire. Direct action need not, and should not, occur. Indeed, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission said in May that although the recent dispute picture was one of a large number of stoppages involving small numbers of persons and sometimes short-lived, it was, nevertheless, disturbed by the high incidence of stoppages. The Commission expressed particular concern at two severely disruptive strikes, one affecting the delivery of petrol in Victoria and the movement of aircraft and the other bringing air travel virtually to a halt. These disputes of course both had particularly damaging effects on Tasmania. They did not have such effects on statistics but they caused serious dislocation in the community. Similarly, a number of these disputes have been characterised by disregard of wage indexation guidelines, their impacts on the levels of production, their implications for business confidence and overseas trade and their adverse effect on the economy as a whole. We have members in Tasmania who are prepared to stand up and fight these disruptive left wing trade unionists. We need to overcome them. They are destroying Tasmania. Even the Archbishop of Hobart has drawn attention to them. He said, virtually, that we should not waste our saliva on them because they are destroying everything in Tasmania 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Did the Prime Minister receive a deputation yesterday from a representative of the Lone Fathers Association of the Australian Capital Territory? If so, can he advise the House of the outcome of the visit? 
I support the Bill. I wish to congratulate the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  for. bringing in this very important legislation which will assist many lone fathers in Australia and in particular their children, which is the most important thing. I shall outline very briefly a few of the reasons why lone fathers were due for this support. Whilst we live and breathe politics every day and whilst sometimes one party may beat the other party to the punch, we cannot get away from the fact that the legislation will be passed and lone fathers will get their benefit. That is the important thing. I am a little disappointed with the remarks of one leader of the lone father; I think he is the  president  of the New South Western Lone Fathers Association. He said that he is only 50 per cent happy - 
-I do not think he is ungrateful: I think that he just does not understand that political implications come into these sorts of decisions. The decision has now been made and the people in need will benefit. Also their children will benefit and that is the important thing. We could pick out members who have assisted so earnestly in the framing of this legislation, but why should we? I think everybody in this chamber has supported it. Now we have it before us: That is the main thing. All politicians should drive in the direction that will help the Australian public as a whole. I think everybody would agree that that too, is important. 
I should like to read into  Hansard  part of an article which I wrote about nine months ago and which outlines my feelings and sentiments as to why lone fathers should get a benefit comparable with that of lone mothers. If we believe, as I do, that the family has the main responsibility for socialising the next generation, is an important agent for social control, and provides a unique opportunity for the satisfaction of emotional needs, it should be understood that an incomplete family is likely to find it more difficult to carry out these functions. Therefore, society is bound to be concerned, and concerned it should be. When a wife and mother is deserted or widowed and left without maintenance, the community, through welfare benefits, makes provision to take over the breadwinner's role. This leaves the mother free to pursue her accepted role of homemaker if she chooses, though often under great difficulty and strain. When a father is left alone, the struggle to maintain a full time job while still providing for child minding during the time he is away outside school hours is extemely difficult. When a woman remarries she is still able to stay at home with her children. Concerned fathers have told me that they must think very carefully before remarrying and consider the compatibility of the children with their prospective new mother, as she will be the one with whom they will spend most of their time. It can thus be argued that if the community is prepared to take the responsibility of breadwinner for a single mother then it should also take the responsibility for the provision of a substitute mother when a father is prepared, at all costs, to keep his family together. The necessity for a lone parent on both roles may arise suddenly. The widowed must learn to cope with their grief; the divorced and unmarried with any doubts. Above all they must face the task of convincing themselves and their children that they can manage alone. 
Invariably, tasks and responsibilities are given to children which are far too much for them. I can relate my own situation. Unfortunately two of my sisters grew up before their time because they were left with the burden of looking after their younger brother and sister. The point I make is that we have succeeded in a mammoth task of introducing legislation which is going to help not this generation, but other generations. As I mentioned before, we all believe in the family unit. I believe that as a result of this measure the family unit will be kept together, though perhaps not altogether satisfactorily and that this legislation is a move in the right direction. 
I am very pleased to speak in this debate. After consultation with the industry in Tasmania my colleagues and I support the Government. I should like to read a telegram from the newly appointed executive director of the State marketing authority,  Mr Windas  Smith, who simply sets out the requirements of the Tasmanian apple industry. Of course that industry is comparable with the industry in other States. The telegram reads: 
Restabilisation.  Current maximum support of $2 per bushel for apples is appropriate but would be more effective if applied to all overseas markets especially developing markets with long term potential. Also important that stabilisation and other support measures be established on a permanent basis. Fruit growing is long term project and renewed annual promises of support do not engender sufficient producer confidence. Because stabilisation operates on Australia wide average of market returns the grower who receives below average return can be seriously disadvantaged. The best way to overcome this problem is to increase Commonwealth contribution to supplementary support scheme say $3 for each $ 1 from State sources. 
-That is right. Windas Smith has simply set out the requirements of that industry. To the best of my ability I have promoted the apple industry, as have my colleagues from Tasmania and also my colleagues from other States. I believe the industry now has a future. Tasmanians should be aware of the vital contribution of the industry to the economy of Tasmania. Those in the industry constitute 2 per cent of the total population and contribute 1 1 per cent of the gross value of Tasmanian agricultural production. One-third of the apples grown in Australia are produced in Tasmania. Tasmania supplies two-thirds of the total Australian export trade. So when we talk of Tasmania we talk of the apple industry. 
The most important single form of assistance given is through the apple and pear stabilisation scheme. The scheme is the incentive to the growers of Tasmania and Australia to stay on their farms. One is horrified to think what the economic situation would be in Tasmania without the apple industry. It generates so much income through shops, transportation, labour, equipment sales, domestic sales, et cetera. The main concern of the Government in continuing the scheme is to reduce the economic and social disruption at a time of declining profitability in the industry. I make no excuse for the fact that it saddens me, and it also saddens every sincere Tasmanian and of course my Tasmanian colleagues- the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom),  the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman)-  to see the continual reduction in production. 
-They are listening. Of course I must mention the Tasmanian senators also. We are saddened by the desperate decision to reduce the number of apple trees in Tasmania by 40 per cent. Between October 1973, when the scheme was introduced, and October 1976 over 40 per cent of the total tree area was removed. Admittedly some of the trees were old. Orchardists have come forward with a completely efficient way of producing apples, but unfortunately they have been let down by what happens after the apples leave the packing shed. Trees have been pulled out, and all of a sudden we realise that we have quality apples; but we cannot supply the world market, and that is absolutely extraordinary when there is a shortage of fresh fruit in Australia and in the world today. 
-Of course the honourable member for Braddon agrees with me. Orchardists have answered the call for efficiency, but unfortunately high transport and freight costs make every season a nightmare for them. Orchardists need support to enable them to compete favourably with Argentina, South Africa and New Zealand. Exports of Australian applies have fallen sharply from a peak of 150,000 tonnes in 1971 to 88,000 tonnes in 1975. 1 think that is indicative of the unfortunate effect of the tree pull scheme. Increases in ocean freight costs have added greatly to the costs of marketing Australian apples overseas. Between 1971 and 1975 the average yearly rate of increase in freight costs to the United Kingdom was 16.4 per cent, which is substantially above the average level of inflation in Australia in those years. The base rate for apples sent to the United Kingdom in 1969 was approximately $1.70 a case. The anticipated rate for 1978 is nearly $6. 
Since 1971 Australian production costs and international marketing costs have increased more rapidly than they did during the previous decade. In particular, the cost of labour has risen more rapidly than the cost of most other production inputs, and for that reason fruit growers have been more disadvantaged because of the increases in their costs of production than have most other Australian exporters. Export freight costs have also risen more rapidly than the cost of most other marketing services. Freight costs thus are high as a proportion of returns for apples and pears sold in Europe. Those costs are currently about 60 per cent of the return on apples. The growers have been aware of the multiplicity of problems that have beset them and their industry. Last season a concerted effort was made to restructure the industry. Tasmania is a very small place, but fortunately we have some very good editors who write - 
-Of course we have some very good members too. We have editors who write editorials that hit the nail right on the head. I think the honourable member for Braddon and the honourable member for Wilmot will agree with me that on 17 October the editor of the  Mercury  hit the nail right on the head with his very appropriate editorial. I will just pinpoint some of the points that he made. The apple industry has been greatly assisted by the restructuring and the formation of a single marketing authority that has cut out some problems that have beset that industry for 40 years. The editorial states: 
One of the biggest Tasmanian tragedies of recent years has been the demise of the State's fruit industry. Scores of grubbed out orchards in the heart of 'apple country' bear mute testimony to the passing of an era. 
There have been innumerable inquiries to try to establish the reasons for the decline of the fruit export industry and to suggest methods of bolstering it. They range from the persistently pessimistic, which suggests it would be wiser to pay growers benefits to quit the industry rather than to continue to prop it up, to the far more optimistic that insisted better marketing and higher quality control could ensure the survival of the industry. 
Some reports had a common theme-that if the industry was to remain viable, it would need a concerted effort from everyone associated with it- growers, exporters, and governments. Several experts stressed that the industry had become fragmented and that the days of growers doing their own thing must be sacrificed for the collective benefit of the industry and all those engaged in it. 
It seemed generally agreed that a new marketing setup would be vital to co-ordinate and promote sales. It also would need to re-establish confidence among European importers, some of whom were caustically critical of some of the poor quality apples that had somehow been shipped from Tasmania. 
And last season, reports from the UK and the Continent indicated that under the new interim marketing setup Tasmania was once again reaping the benefits from high quality fruit bringing premium prices. But the supposition that all was again well with the industry was shattered when some growers expressed dissatisfaction with the executive director of the marketing authority . . . 
Fortunately that problem has been overcome. Last season, even though the crop was down to 1.2 million cases, it was a good season. It was brought about by a co-operative, by everybody working together, by improvement in quality control and a demand for Tasmania apples in the United Kingdom and Australia. Fortunately, with the freight equalisation plan, we were able to bring apples to the mainland of Australia. Also the United Kingdom had a very dry season and our apples were in demand. If we are to continue to consider Tasmania as being the apple isle, we will have to make absolutely certain that we protect its markets. 
This year growers do not need the additional support price; they have indicated that. But if in the future they do need this support, I think all Tasmanian members would rise to the occasion and would agree with members of the Opposition who, if I may say so, are acting a little bit hypocritically in this situation. They do not really believe in the support; they believe that the industry should be allowed to run into the ground. They are probably using the situation as a political gimmick to try to impress the growers of Tasmania. As I said this year the support is not required; the growers do not need it. It is not of much use giving the growers the money if they cannot use it. Of course I support the Government, and all other members from Tasmania support the Government. We will have a good season again. We, as Tasmanians can feel proud that the growers in Tasmania - 
That is right. As I was saying, we as Tasmanians can feel proud that the growers in Tasmania have been able to come together and make a good industry once again. That is indicative of all Tasmanians. We have an apple industry again and we can proudly say that Tasmania is the apple isle. We do not need these political gimmicks. We do not need an additional amount by way of support this year. We will be able to stand on our own feet and say in the future that if the growers need money we will support them. (  Quorum formed). 
Question put- 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Scholes' amendment)  stand part of the question. 
-Will the Minister for Transport please indicate to the people of Hobart why Sullivans Cove Ferry Co. Pty Ltd, which incidentally gave very valuable service when the bridge went down, was not given the opportunity to purchase two of the floating pontoons which are now being dismantled and transferred to Launceston for use by the Launceston Port Authority? Further, whose fault is it that this transfer is now being effected? The people of Hobart are earnestly waiting for this answer. 
I take this opportunity to extend personally to  Mr Speaker  my sincere congratulations on his New Year knighthood and on his re-election as  Speaker  of this House. To you,  Mr Millar,  I extend my congratulations on your election to the most important position that you hold. Also, as a mark of respect to  Mr Lucock,  I extend my congratulations for the job that he did over so many years. To the people of Franklin who worked so tirelessly to have me re-elected I extend my thanks. I thank also my wife and family for being able to put up with and to tolerate some of the problems that they definitely encounter as a politician's wife and family. I will work to the best of my ability to please them and to please the people of Franklin and Tasmania. Let me say to the newly elected members that I have certainly received plenty of advice; some I have heeded and some I have not. I think that if new members work for all the needy people in their electorates they will gain immense satisfaction and sometimes the disillusionment that occurs in this place will vanish quite dramatically. I congratulate the new members on their very fine addresses. I trust they will all be very happy in this place. 
I found the Governor-General 's address very interesting, even taking into consideration how hot it was in the Senate. I would like to talk in the time afforded to me about the Government's priorities, particularly the priority to provide effective assistance to the disadvantaged in ways that promote independence and self-respect. One would be a fool to say that we do not have problems in Australia today in this area. Disregarding the dreadful problem of unemployment which is argued so continually in this House, the plight of the elderly remains a difficult problem to overcome. Of course some of the elderly have taken adequate precaution for the future whilst others, for various reasons, have found it very difficult to plan for their retirement. 111 health, family problems and so on are important factors in whether the elderly remain happy in the twilight of their lives. I believe that no stone should be left unturned to assist the people who have virtually made Australia the very fine nation that it is. 
In travelling up to Canberra the Sunday before last, my family and I stopped at a suburb in Melbourne to attend mass. Whilst the priest was relatively elderly I could tell by listening to his somewhat fiery sermon that he had a great concern and compassion for the problems of the elderly in Australia. Among many things that he said which made a lot of sense to me and no doubt made a lot of sense to many other members of the congregation was that far too often too few change the lives and happiness of many of the people in Australia. Rather than get into the deep psychological, emotional points that he endeavoured to convey in his sermon, I will refer to one rather alarming statement. For a moment I had to shake myself to realise that I was in a normal church in a normal suburb in Australia. He said that the people in power, meaning the politicians of all persuasions, were being influenced by the vocal change minority. He said that if a pill was developed that could curtail the lives of the elderly it would be introduced. In fact he was saying that Australia and the world are heading towards euthanasia. He was saying that to make the world like some would like it to be no stone would be left unturned. He said this was particularly pertinent to the elderly. 
I was horrified at this statement and I sought the priest after mass. I said 'do you have any foundation or basis for the argument that you presented in the sermon?' He said: 'Yes. I am sure that it is coming'. Of course I disagreed vehemently with him. I said that there was not one politician from either side of the House who would condone or even think of euthanasia in Australia. I think he indicated that there is great concern for the elderly, not only by the clergy but also by many people in Australia. We as politicians have the difficult task of overcoming this massive problem. I think that by talking and arguing about it we are not proceeding very far. It is about time that we got down to the task of working together for the elderly of Australia. 
I have said- and I have said it in this House on one occasion- that some people cannot wait to get rid of their elderly parents, that they cannot wait to put their parents into institutions or some lonely place as long as their parents are away from them. There are reasons for this. These people say that it relates to the children. They say that they cannot afford to keep their parents. But it does not overcome the immense sadness and the immense problems that are confronting Australia in regard to the elderly. Pensions are provided of course. We all know that they are completely inadequate. We all know that the elderly can just survive on the pension but they cannot plan. They cannot enjoy the little luxuries that I think the elderly people should be able to provide for themselves. Family problems, health problems, et cetera distract them from happiness. I think that they yearn for happiness and for independence. Unfortunately some die a very wretched and miserable death. Everybody in this Parliament has a responsibility to work constructively to help the plight of the elderly. 
I do not know what would happen if we did not have people in every centre in Australia who seem to be able to lead the elderly in senior citizens' clubs, in sixty and over clubs and so on. These people bring immense joy and pleasure to the elderly and give them the feeling that they are wanted. I think one of the heartening things of my two years in politics has been the ability to be able to attend many senior citizens' functions and to see at first hand the way that very ordinary people come out of the mass and are able to talk to the elderly and give them that little bit of happiness that they so urgently require. The elderly make new friends and new acquaintances. I think that if we followed the pattern of some of the leaders in the elderly citizens' clubs we could learn a lot. 
During my personal involvement in a campaign concerning a lone fathers' benefit, I was alerted- possibly I was completely aware of it before- to the disadvantages that are suffered by many children of lone parents. The difficulties of raising a family today are increasing. I think it is evident by the number of marriage break-ups, family break-ups, et cetera, that are occurring in Australia today. Of course these break-ups have a great bearing on the lives and future lives of the children of Australia. The children are extremely vulnerable in today's society. Although in many cases it is not the fault of parents, children are left alone for long periods. I do not always take note of the great talkers throughout Australia who are able to sit around the table and talk about the problem but who sometimes, I am afraid, do not get their hands dirty and do not really realise the problem. They have never encountered the problem in their lives but seem to be able to dictate to us the course of action that we should take as politicians to overcome it. I have seen at first hand in many cases poor diets, lack of warm clothing and on numerous occasions extreme emotional situations which largely have been created by the unhappiness or the drop in morale caused by the loss of a parent. This, of course, has a deep psychological effect on the children. 
We all know that children need a great deal of personal attention and care. If they are to grow into adults willing and able to contribute to society, security and stability are essential. Many people in this House have talked about unemployment. I believe it is a bit of a political battle. We all use it for political gain. Sometimes I think a strong link exists between the problems of the children that I have mentioned and the problems of unemployment. As a matter of fact I believe that statistics indicate that employment difficulties emerge for children who have had very disturbed backgrounds. Honourable members can argue about unemployment until they are blue in the face, but we must look at ways to overcome the massive problem. We have talked about various schemes, but I believe that we could make a start by looking at the problems of the children I have mentioned. 
Lone parent families suffer a high degree of social and economic disadvantage. Family and friends often are not able to provide much assistance and the problem must become a community responsibility in order to minimise the changes forced upon the children. Support services must be available and I know that this Government and other governments have done everything they can to assist and hopefully to minimise the problem. They will never be able to overcome it completely. But I believe that with drive and enthusiasm from all the newly elected politicians in this House and from some of the older politicians who perhaps have lost a little of their drive and enthusiasm we can start to work together again to overcome these massive problems. We must realise that we have massive problems in this area in order to overcome them and consequently to overcome some of the other problems that I have mentioned. 
I think it is well known that I have a great concern for the petroleum industry in Australia. Some would say that I have been rather outspoken about it and that I have made quite a few enemies in this area. But I have firm beliefs in respect of the great disparity between the selling price of petrol in the capital cities of Australia and the selling price of petrol in some of the outlying and the more central areas. I make a simple comparison which I believe highlights the point that I have been trying to make for a couple of years. I would like to make certain that my Government restructures the oil industry in the best interests of all Australians on the basis of equality. Why is it that the Prices Justification Tribunal fixes a maximum wholesale price in every capital in Australia? I believe that the maximum wholesale price of petrol in every capital city at the moment is approximately 1 6.8c per litre. In Hobart, it is 16.97c per litre. I suppose that in Tasmania we pay a little more for the water that must be crossed to come to us. But in most capital cities it is possible to buy petrolboth super and standard grades- well below that maximum wholesale price level. Yet in Tasmania the maximum wholesale price is charged. Of course, when the dealers impose their margin there is a disparity, sometimes up to 30c a gallon, between the price paid for petrol by Tasmanians and by people in the capital cities. We must consider at the same time that Tasmania has one of the highest costs of living in Australia and that Tasmanians receive the lowest wages. Yet if we take the total number of motorists in Tasmania and compare them with an equal number of motorists in Melbourne, we find that the Tasmanians are paying an additional $13m a year for petrol. My Government in the near future will be introducing a fuel equalisation plan. I have said that it should be called a fuel freight subsidy plan in the hope that it will be possible to offer the country people in Australia a petrol price which is one cent a litre above the relevant city price. I have said that my Government will find it very difficult to determine a relevant city price, and I believe that before the scheme can be introduced it will be necessary to have a very solid talk to the oil companies. 
The problem is difficult and complex. For many years the people of Melbourne have enjoyed paying a low price for petrol. This has spread to other States and I know that the smaller oil companies which are dependent on an allocation of local crude oil which is cheaper than imported crude must maintain a volume of sales. In order to maintain that volume of sales they find it necessary and desirable to sell in volume. Of course, they sell to companies such as ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd. I believe that one of the honourable members who is present in the House today has something to do with that company. But he had the audacity to talk about small business. I ask him to consider the plight in which small businesses and other institutions in Australia are placed because of the operations of ACTU-Solo and the flood of other independent service station operators. I am not blaming the ACTU-Solo altogether for the present position of small businesses, but I am saying that there should be fairness in the petroleum industry. 
There should be fairness in respect of ACTUSolo, Yellow Cabs of Australia Pty Ltd and other companies which are able to sell petrol at a price below the maximum wholesale line. Goodness only knows what price they pay for that petrol from the oil companies. Of course, the other companies must subsidise their dealers so that they can compete. Sometimes, unfortunately, those dealers are left in a difficult situation in which one could say that gross discrimination occurs. 
I believe that petroleum is precious. I believe that it should be fair and just for all Australians to be able to buy petrol at a fair and reasonable price. I urge the Government to take note of my comments, and further I urge my Government to restructure or work towards restructuring the oil industry in the best interests of all Australians. I take no pleasure in noting that our car manufacturers are finding it very difficult in this economic climate to make a profit and as a result create new jobs. But I again urge them to look at the alternatives. I have said before that the car manufacturers offer options in their vehicles. They offer different gearboxes, differentials, upholstery, et cetera. But why do they not offer engines which can be powered by liquified petroleum gas as an alternative? Why do we not try to influence the manufacturers to use LPG to conserve the precious petroleum products we have and to use some of the LPG that is available in vast quantities in Australia? 
-Of course, there are also the steam car and the electric car. There are many other alternatives to petroleum. I only hope that my Government will take note of this plea. I believe that my calls are starting to gather momentum and that other people are starting to realise the need to look for alternatives. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Les  Johnson) adjourned. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. He is no doubt aware that last night the Prices Justification Tribunal announced an increase in the price of petrol. I refer to the variation in the selling price of petrol throughout Australia. I cite the classic example of Hobart where the maximum wholesale price of petrol is 16.97c a litre super grade, making an average selling price of approximately 22c a litre super grade. I also refer to the fact that super grade petrol may be purchased on most street corners in Melbourne, Adelaide and Sydney at approximately 15.8c a litre, which is nearly 30c a gallon more than the price charged in Hobart. The Prime Minister will understand the effect this has on the economy of Tasmania. Therefore, will he give the House an assurance that in view of the unfair variation the Government will look seriously, firstly, at the wholesale prices being charged by the oil companies in Australia and, secondly, at the decision of the Prices Justification Tribunal in relation to this latest price increase? 
-The Bill itself is not controversial but, because there is such a variation in the price of petrol throughout Australia today, makes the Bill difficult to explain and difficult for the people of Australia to understand, particularly those people who are paying a far higher price for petrol than those people in the densely populated areas of Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and Brisbane. I can understand why the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  feels upset tonight because he has not the opportunity to present to this Parliament the reason why the people of Kalgoorlie are paying a high price for their petrol which is having an adverse effect on their economy because of the high costs involved in the transportation of the goods and so on. He knows the reason. He knows that the people of Perth are paying a good deal less for their petrol. He knows that there is unfairness, a discrimination in the market place and that is the reason he is upset tonight. My colleagues from Tasmania, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  understand why I get so upset about this petrol situation because we realise that in Hobart which is not a country area- it is a capital city- the people pay 23c a litre average. Yet in Melbourne people pay 15.7c a litre average, and in most capital cities in Australia the price would be approximately the same. So, the people of Hobart are paying 30c a gallon more than people are paying in other capital cities. 
-That is a stupid question. I will continue with some of your points later. In fact, this higher price for petrol is costing the economy of Tasmania $13. 9m. Yet the representatives of Tasmania come into this Parliament and fight for about $2m in apple subsidies. We fight for this and we fight for that. The people of Tasmania who are listening tonight are paying $ 13.9m for petrol. Yet people ask me to be calm, cool and collected in respect of what is occurring in the petroleum industry. 
-The honourable member for Melbourne Ports should not say anything. 
-That interjection did not worry me at all. 
-The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  is sitting at the table. I feel sorry for him because he is trying desperately to introduce a scheme which in theory and in principle will assist the country people of Australia. I do not want to attack the oil companies tonight but if we consider a relevant city price we find that there is not a relevant city price. The price varies from city to city. Unfortunately this good scheme that the Government is trying to introduce in this legislation is unfair insofar as we are not able to pinpoint a relevant city price. Therefore, unfortunately, this legislation is not going to benefit the people whom we would like it to benefit. The reasons are very difficult to explain. There are Opposition supporters who tonight will support an amendment. But I ask those honourable members whether they are going to face up to their constituents, for example in the Melbourne area, and say to the people there: 'You have had it so good for 10 years. You have had discount petrol for 10 years, whereas the rest of Australia virtually has been subsidising the people in Melbourne'. 
-They have had it easy. Are those honourable members going to say to those people that they should pay higher prices for their petrol and that the other people in Australia, including those in the country areas and Tasmania, should pay less? I mention that before I continue with other aspects. The real point is that there is inequality. Some things that have been presented by oil companies have not been in the best interests of the Australian public. Unfortunately, we are discussing good legislation that has been spoilt because there is no relevant city price. The variation is causing the problem. I am going to cross the floor tonight to vote with the Opposition. I will sit by myself. I will sit over there and say to myself that in principle I am voting against the oil companies which have caused so many difficulties. 
-No, I am sorry, I have to. The oil companies have penalised the people of Tasmania for too long. It is about time that somebody said to himself that there is a chance of showing some principle. There is a chance to sit on the other side of the House tonight and vote against the oil companies just to indicate that we will not let what is happening in Tasmania continue. We have allowed the oil companies to have their way far too long. It has cost too many people too much money. Tasmania has the highest cost of living in Australia and it has the lowest wages. Yet, unfortunately, it is being penalised because of the high prices for petrol. The oil companies say to me: 'Bruce, it is the market forces prevailing'. The oil companies are charging the maximum wholesale price in Tasmania. They are decentralising. They are getting the best out of Tasmania. Yet they are moving their office facilities out of Tasmania to Melbourne and Sydney and leaving Tasmania to starve. They are not providing opportunities for young Tasmanians to work within their industries. The oil companies are leaving us yet they are charging us through the neck. They have the audacity to say to me: 'You are being critical of the oil companies'. I am not. I am talking about being fair. We have to be fair to Tasmania. If we do not do so tonight- I know my two Tasmanian colleagues will support me- we will not have the opportunity to do so again. 
I think about the 16,000 service station proprietors in Australia who are trying to employ people and who are trying to do the best for the economy of Australia. I am afraid that slowly but surely they are being eroded. Slowly but surely they are being discriminated against. I believe that the oil companies have to contribute to the restructuring of the oil industry in the best interests of all Australians. That is the very reason why I will make a move in principle tonight. I challenge the Opposition, in fact all honourable members from Melbourne, Sydney, Perth and Adelaide, to remember that when they vote tonight they virtually will be saying that people in their cities are paying too little for their petrol and that they should be paying more in order to subsidise the poor people in Tasmania and in the country areas who have been penalised for too long. 
Honourable members talk about the fourth report of the royal commission. It is obsolete. It is absolute nonsense to talk about it. I spoke about it two years ago and I said then that discount petrol was available only in Melbourne. But slowly and surely it has spread to every State in Australia. ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pry Ltd and the other jobbers are only parasites of some of the smaller oil companies who sell to them at a price well below the wholesale price so that they are able to sell far below the retail price normally charged. Where do the profits of ACTU-Solo go? I ask honourable members to consider that carefully when they vote tonight. Do honourable members remember the cent that was to be paid to the New South Wales Labour Council until the Transport Workers Union was able to transfer the petrol? When honourable members vote tonight they should remember that quite clearly. When we vote tonight we are voting for Tasmania and also the country areas. That is the important thing. The legislation that is going through tonight shows that we are trying to give the country people an opportunity to be able to purchase petrol at a price that is fair and just. We hope that after we make a -move tonight the people of Australia and the oil companies will understand that we mean business. That is important. It takes a small State like Tasmania to bring that out into the open. This superficial politicking has been going on for too long. This matter is important to our economy. 
I have spoken on the petroleum industry on many occasions. I think that about IS months ago, prior to ACTU-Solo entering the market in New South Wales, I spoke about discount petrol. I think Opposition members realise tonight that I have hit upon a point that we have been trying to hit upon for many years. If we all work together constructively we will be able to overcome the problems within the oil industry. It is about time that we started to work together. We all know what is going wrong. We have heard superficial speeches tonight. Honourable members have said that we should touch on this and touch on that but we all know that the present situation is wrong and unfair. We know that it is causing undue controversy and undue problems to certain areas of Australia. Together we can overcome it. We can start talking to the oil companies and say that we are the bosses, not them, and we can dictate terms in the best interests of all people. That is the important thing. 
I do not think I need to continue my speech. The people of Tasmania have been subjected to too much unfair trading for too long. Tonight I hope that they realise that we are trying to fight for the people of Tasmania and also the people in the country areas; that we are trying to make certain that the oil industry is restructured in the best interests of all people. Hopefully, in the long term, everybody will realise this precious resource should be contained and controlled in everybody's interests. 
-The Prime Minister no doubt is aware of the recent emotional outburst by the Treasurer of Tasmania. 
He is worse than a trouble maker. He is killing all our hard work. 
-I thank the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  for his remarks. The honourable member was formerly a member of the Tasmanian Legislative Council, representing the electorate of Huonville. He is well known to the apple growers there as a tenacious fighter. I want to refer to the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. Sometimes I think that the members of the IAC are theorists who do not really know what the industry is all about. They like to restructure industries. They like to think that they know about an industry but unfortunately they have been proved wrong. I recall that the honourable member for Denison once asked: Why pull out the apple trees?' Unfortunately, since 1973, 40 per cent of the apple trees in Tasmania have been pulled out, and today there is a demand for apples. The honourable member for Denison and the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  were among those who asked: 'Why pull out the apple trees in Tasmania?' We are faced with a world demand for good apples and, unfortunately, we cannot meet that demand. I do not mind being called the apple grub of Tasmania but I do not like being called the tourist grub. By that I mean that for many years Tasmania has been synonymous with the apple. People always think of Tasmania as the Apple Isle. 
-The honourable member for Denison is quite right. Today a lot of people are thinking of Tasmania as the Tourist Isle. I do not blame them for that, but I still like to think that we are synonymous with the apple. Tasmania provides two-thirds of Australia's total apple exports to the United Kingdom. We produce one-third of the apples produced in Australia. We are the best producers of apples in Australia. According to an article in the  Sunday Telegraph- I  am told that it is a very good newspaper- apples from Tasmania are two cents cheaper but are of the best quality. Of course they are of the best quality. Today the Tasmanian Treasurer said that Tasmania was being sold down the drain. He should remember that the introduction of the freight equalisation plan has provided $16m to Tasmania. A lot of my friends in the National Country Party do not like to hear me saying that our apples are the best in Australia. They do not like to hear me saying that the people of Australia prefer our apples to theirs. 
-I know that they do not like it but it is true. The introduction of the freight equalisation plan has enabled us to put our apples on the market in Australia. The people of Australia know quality and they have been buying our apples. The Tasmanian Treasurer is also the Minister for Education. Every time I went to an education meeting he attacked the Federal Government, and now he is attacking the Federal Government by saying that it is selling Tasmania down the drain. That same Minister does not come out and say that the introduction of the freight equalisation plan has meant that for the first time we have been able to put our apples on the mainland market and have been able to compete with the mainlanders. There is a distinction between Tasmanians and mainlanders. We like to say that we are Tasmanians. We produce one-third of the total Australian apple production and we provide twothirds of the total Australian exports to the United Kingdom. We are the Apple Isle. We must keep on saying that and presenting Tasmania in that way. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I like to have your protection in this hostile environment when I am trying to present my case. 
I am sorry. I am one-eyed like a lot of other people. 
-I am very pleased to resume the debate. I wish firstly to indicate what the Bill is all about. The purpose of the Bill is to extend the borrowing power of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation to enable it to borrow, with a provision for the Commonwealth to guarantee repayment, moneys for the purpose of promoting the sale and consumption of apples and pears and apple and pear products. I will briefly outline the reason why I believe apples should be promoted in the interest of Australians. Before doing so I want to make a couple of explanations. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns)  said last Thursday that that evening I had eaten a Victorian apple. That is not true. He is a Scotsman, too, I believe. 
-I withdraw the remark. I believe that the honourable member is from the south of Ireland. 
-I will take due note of the remarks of the honourable member for Robertson. I hope that he practises what he says for the entire duration of this Parliament. The point I was making was that the honourable member for Isaacs said that I had eaten a Victorian apple. This is not true. I was told that the apple was a Tasmanian apple. I believe that Tasmanian apples are worth promoting. The other night the members of the National Country Party, some of whom are good friends of mine, were a little worried about the quality of Tasmanian apples. The introduction of the fruit equalisation plan has enabled us, for the first time, to put our apples on the Australian market at a price comparable with that of other producers of apples and which has forced them to compete with us in regard to quality. The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  mentioned that apples were a stimulant in certain respects. 
-Yes, they are. Tasmanian apple producers have been producing apples for 90 years. The early producers hit upon certain names for their apples. I think they are very appropriate and should be promoted. 
-Quite a few. Some of the names of apples are very appropriate. I refer to such names as Ladies in the Snow, Delicious, Granny Smith, Geeveston Fanny and Crofton. These apples should be promoted in this Parliament. The Australian people should realise that the apples produced in Tasmania are worth promoting. With the introduction of this Bill it has suddenly been realised that if apples are to be sold in Australia and the United Kingdom they have to be promoted and promoted by the right people at every given opportunity. Some people criticise me continually for mentioning the word apple'. If Tasmanians believe that the apple industry is important to the Tasmanian economy and that the Apple Isle is synonymous with apples they have to promote apples continually. For that reason I say that the money will be well spent. 
-They are only a minor consideration. Some 40 per cent of the total number of trees in Tasmania in 1972 have been pulled out since then because some people said that there was not a market for them, that certain things had gone wrong with them, and the industry needed restructuring and so on. Today the apple market in the United Kingdom is so great that Australian apples are required but Australian growers are not able to produce enough apples for that market. To me, that is unfortunate. I hope that Tasmania will start to grow more apples to cope with the present demand.  Mr Leckie,  who was promoted  Chairman  of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation, had some strong things to say about the industry. I think his remarks are very pertinent to this debate. He said: 
In my short time in the industry, I have been impressed by evidence that the industry is gearing itself to overcome difficulties facing it, particularly in Tasmania. The introduction of the Tasmanian Apple and Pear Marketing Authority is evidence of the desire of growers in that State endeavouring to rationalise operations to achieve maximum results. In Tasmania the introduction of new regulations covering background colour and cool storage, whilst posing some introductory problems has caused an improvement in fruit conditions and coupled with a smoother flow of fruit to ships and improved loading rates, has improved the overall quality and condition of export fruit. 
The people involved in the industry in Tasmania have realised for many years that there have been problems in exporting fruit to the United Kingdom. Of course, freight rates have increased dramatically, which has created a problem. But the pure and simple fact is that apples have not been marketed correctly. The right varieties have not been sent to the United Kingdom. The growers have not had the people at the other end to make certain that when the apples are landed in the United Kingdom they are sold at the best possible price for the growers. A single marketing authority now has been set up. This authority, although it has handled only about half the quantity of fruit produced since 1971, has been able to place the fruit at the best possible price. I extend my congratulations to the Authority as I am sure other Tasmanians would like to do. 
There is evidence that the industry is on the improve. There is evidence that the work that the growers have put in for so many years and the application that they have shown in difficult times, despite their inability to make even a respectable living, has now come to fruition because of the fact that the Authority is now able to place the fruit to the advantage of the growers of Tasmania. I believe that is a significant and most important point. I hope that the industry in Tasmania will be restructured and that more fruit trees will be planted. That would be to the advantage not only of Tasmania but also the world. Fresh fruit is in demand. There will always be a demand for decent, respectable apples. This is shown by the number of members of this Parliament who eat apples. I hope that some of the things that have been said in the last couple of days will promote further demand. 
The fact is that apples grown in Tasmania are of good quality and acceptable to everybody in Australia. For that reason they should be promoted. Everybody in Tasmania should be proud to say that Tasmania is the Apple Isle. It is sometimes called the Tourist Isle following the introduction of a casino. I do not knock that aspect. But to me and to many other Tasmanians, Tasmania will always be known as the Apple Isle. During my stay in Parliament I hope that I will be able at every opportunity to promote apples and apple products. 
That leads me to another point of interest. I do not think that apple cider produced in Tasmania can be bought in Parliament House. Many members have asked me: 'Bruce, is there any way in which the apple cider produced in Tasmania can be made available in Federal Parliament?' If it were it would enable those of us who bring friends to Parliament House to introduce them to apple cider produced in Tasmania. This would be another way by which to promote this very important Tasmanian industry. 
I know that some honourable members get very bored with the apple industry and talk of the Apple Isle. But we believe that the apple industry is part of Tasmania, that it is at the very heart of Tasmania. I know that every Tasmanian will continue to promote the industry. Hopefully in the long term the industry and people who work in it will be rewarded as a result of money advanced to the Corporation for restructuring and for the purpose of promoting the sale and consumption of apples. Many people picking apples under difficulties are finding it very difficult to survive under the economic conditions that prevail in Australia today. They need to be given heart. They need the enthusiastic support of every member of this place. They need to know that in the long term they will be rewarded and that their hard work will be appreciated by all Tasmanians and other Australians. 
I am afraid the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  did not pick a box with me, but never mind. 
-No, not really. It is meant to to be a light hearted remark. 
Yes,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I have a very serious matter to speak about and I am pleased to see that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  is at the table. He is a very good Minister. He has a difficult problem in trying to restructure pricing within the oil industry and in this task he deserves the assistance of everybody in the House. On both sides I think there is an appreciation of what the ordinary service station proprietor in Australia does. There are some 16,000 of them working every day to provide service to everybody. Just because they wear overalls, and have grease on their hands sometimes, people think that they are not as important as some of the people in the other strata of business people that we deal with. But to my way of thinking they serve a useful purpose, a great purpose, by providing the assistance that one requires for the running of a motor car. Some people consider their car far above their house, and sometimes, unfortunately, far above their wife. 
The 16,000 service station proprietors in Australia may each employ two or three people. They require the moral support of everybody in this Parliament. But unfortunately oil companies forget that these 16,000 proprietors mean something to the economy of Australia and are human beings trying to make a living in this difficult economic situation. For that very reason the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs is charged with the grave responsibility of trying, in the best interests of this Parliament and of all 
Australians to restructure the industry so that once again there is fairness in the marketing of petroleum products in Australia. 
Some people in Tasmania have said that I have intervened in the oil industry to try to bring down the prices. The oil companies have grasped hold of the idea that they can create a devious situation by saying to some dealers: 'If you discount we will give you a kick-back so that you can create a chaotic situation where one dealer cannot compete against the other'. This is just an example of what is occurring all over Australia where we have a disparity in the price of petrol. Ordinary human beings are thrown to the wolves, unfortunately, by some of the large multinational companies in Australia. It is shameful and it is something of which we should be aware. 
Tasmania has had stable marketing for many years. It has had a secure roster system and each person who is involved in the industry has been able to make a fair and just living. Service station proprietors have been able to employ people in a fair and just way. They have been able to give the public of Tasmania a respectable service, something that is sometimes forgotten by cut price petrol dealers. Over the last few years the oil companies have decentralised. They have moved all their management and key personnel out of Tasmania. They have left it as a shell- I mean that not as a faux pas. Now they have realised that the eyes of Australia are on Tasmania. We are saying that they are charging too much for petrol. So to overcome that shameful situation they are trying to create a chaotic marketing condition in which they throw one man against the other. The oil companies could go to my good friend along the aisle and say to him: 'We will give you petrol at X amount less than the wholesale price and you discount to create the volume'. They do not care about the other poor devil on the corner. They do this unjustly-- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! It being 1 1 p.m. the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until tomorrow at 3 p.m. or such time thereafter as  Mr Speaker  may take the chair. 
House adjourned at 1 1 p.m. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. In view of the fact that the Australian Minerals and Energy Council considered that the increased use of liquid petroleum gas would result in improved utilisation of our indigenous oil resources and an easing of lead pollution levels, will the Minister tell the House what, actions if any, has been taken to encourage the use of LPG in motor vehicles? 
I would like to thank the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  for his very constructive speech pertinent to this amendment. I do not want to become involved in the wrangle about who will not lend support to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company except that I would like to say that if  Mr Lowe  is so very concerned about cooperation, he will have to make absolutely certain that he does not allow his treasurer to make such rash statements when decisions such as this are being debated. I am afraid they caused great alarm within our Party. I am extremely pleased to see in the chamber the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  who have stayed back so late to participate in this debate because they have a real concern- a genuine concern- for the people of Queenstown. This debate concerns people; it concerns keeping them in Queenstown and keeping them in employment. Also it is very pleasing to see the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  here. The honourable member and myself may have clashed on a certain issue, but he is big enough to realise that this Bill does not relate to Kalgoorlie; it relates to 
Queenstown- a little town in Tasmania. If we send that town to the wall, where will we relocate those people and what will we do with them? Tasmania is quite different from Kalgoorlie. I would like to thank the honourable member for smiling because that signifies that he will support this legislation, as will the Opposition. 
I think the greatest tribute that I can pay tonight is to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom).  Unfortunately he cannot speak on this legislation. As the honourable member for Braddon, he was concerned during the critical period and I think he endeared himself to the people of Queenstown as a quiet and sincere man, ready to assist them at every opportunity, ready to talk to the miners, ready to talk to the people of Queenstown and to make absolutely certain that their town will continue as a viable town and contribute to the economy of Tasmania. I am extremely pleased to see the Government giving this assistance to the people of Tasmania. The honourable member for Braddon did a fine job and I hope that he is listening to this debate tonight and realising that all his hard work has come to fruition. I also hope that the people of Queenstown realise that there is a genuine concern for them by everybody in this House and in fact by everybody in Australia who realises that in difficult economic times those people deserve the assistance that sometimes may not be given to other organisations. A peculiar situation such as this one deserves that assistance. In all fairness I will allow the honourable member for Kalgoorlie to take up the rest of the 1 5 minutes that was allotted to me. I hope he will remember tonight that many Tasmanians are listening to this debate. Tasmania has an unemployment level of 7.2 percent. We are concerned - 
-That is a stupid statement from the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. We are progressing well here tonight and it is getting very late. I will now hand over to the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) ( 1 1.30)- It is a sad state of affairs when an important mining Bill such as this is brought on for debate in this House at this hour of the night, particularly when one considers that the welfare of the nation depends to a large degree upon the successful development and extraction of our minerals. I support the remarks of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  The Australian Labor Party does not intend to oppose this Bill because it realises that there are many humane and proper financial reasons why this amount of money should be made available. We remind the House of the doubts we expressed when a similar Bill was introduced late last year. We do this only because we wish to highlight the responsibility of the national Government to assume a fair and long term policy in regard to our mineral resources and to ensure the best use of our mineral resources, keeping in mind that they constitute a wasting asset and that with the depletion of highly concentrated, high grade ore, much dependence will have to be placed on low grade ore bodies. We have, therefore, a responsibility to protect the low grade ore bodies so that they can ultimately be extracted economically. 
I remind the House that before this takes place the national Government has a responsibility to ensure that the maximum yield from limited resources is extracted from mines that are coming to the end of their profitable lives, and this could be the case with some of the mines to which the Opposition has referred. It applies also to marginal mines. I think it is important to remind ourselves of this, because at page 4 of its interim report on copper ores and concentrates the Industries Assistance Commission stated that the Mount Isa mine made no request for assistance. There is a danger that some people will say: 'Why should we worry about marginal mines or mines that cannot run at a profit? Why do we not let the big mines produce the ore at a profit and not cost the taxpayers anything?' That is, of course, a short-sighted approach, as we must remember that mines such as the Mount Isa mine are very fortunate in that they extract two differenct ores through the one shaft. It is a very high grade ore body. It should be remembered also that as time goes by the ore will be further away from the shaft. Even without any bad luck, such as a big collapse in the levels or an explosion in the shaft, it will be more costly to extract the minerals from the mine. 
When we consider these things we must remember also that Australian copper production amounted to only 214,000 tonnes in 1976, which was only 2.7 per cent of the world's output. Nonetheless, we have a responsibility to see that we extract all our copper ore resources. We are fortunate to be one of those countries endowed with a wide range of minerals. However, this imposes on us a greater international obligation to mankind to develop and extract our mineral resources so that mankind will receive the maximum degree of benefit from them. One of the great problems in our mining industries today- we do not have time tonight to touch on all the problems- is the amount of ore that is left behind in mines. The difference between breaking even, mining ore profitably and mining ore unprofitably is marginal. There should be greater concern to see that all the ore is extraced 
That is one of our reasons for supporting this Bill to assist the Mount Lyell mine. 
I remind the House of some of the arguments put forward on the last time we debated this matter that the mine at Cobar should have received the same consideration. On that occasion no answer was given by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson).  I hope that tonight he will give us some explanation why the Gunpowder mine did not receive assistance. Page 3 of the Industries Assistance Commission report indicates that the Gunpowder company made an appeal to the Government and the State to assist it in keeping the mine going until the report of the IAC was brought down. It is not my intention to occupy time that other honourable members might use, but I should like to wish the workers in Mount Lyell every success. I hope they are as successful as the mines were in Broken Hill, that the mine will keep going and that further ore bodies will be found. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware of the bitter controversy surrounding the proposed revolutionary daylight freight sea container service between Victoria and Tasmania by  Mr Gordon  Barton, which is to be known as the 'Tiger Line'? As that project will cost an estimated $30m, of which $15m will be guaranteed by the Tasmanian Government, has the Government been involved in discussions with the Victorian and Tasmanian Governments? Further, will the Prime Minister give urgent consideration to earlier suggestions that a fast sea passenger link between Western Port in Victoria and the nearest port in Tasmania should be developed on similar lines to the Tiger Line, and forced to help the tourist industry of Tasmania? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I hope, despite the tone of my voice, that I can get the words out. I will try. Much has been said about the freight problems of Tasmania in relation to the apple industry, petroleum and all the other problems besetting Tasmania. All of a sudden along comes a gentleman by the name of Gordon Barton and offers to the people of Tasmania a revolutionary way of bringing freight into and out of Tasmania. Actually I am sick to death of the parochial attitude of Tasmanians. There are 400,000 people in TasmaniaI am from the south- and they fight amongst themselves, which is not in the best interests of Tasmania. All of a sudden along comes  Mr Gordon  Barton- honourable members will recall that he is involved with IPEC Co. Pty Ltd- and he offers to the people of Tasmania a way of getting freight into and out of Tasmania on a daylight service on a three-man ship with no problems. The people of Tasmania have been saying to me since I was elected to this Parliament - 
-Thank you very much. They have been asking me: 'What are you going to do about the freight into and out of Tasmania?'. The Government has already said that it intends to provide a subsidy of nearly $16m under the freight equalisation scheme. Many people in Australia are starting to ask: ' What else is the Government going to do for Tasmania? Why do they not do something for themselves?'. Now a man has come along and has offered the people of Tasmania a convenient, revolutionary way of getting the freight in and out by a daylight service- in in the morning and out in the afternoon. I am not usually a union basher. I believe that fundamentally unions have a very important part to play. But people have to be consistent in what they are saying. 
The people who live in Tasmania must be absolutely certain when they make a point that in the long term it will be in the best interests of all Tasmanians. But I am afraid that some of the 
Tasmanian politicians, on both sides of the fence, have become extremely negative. They are saying that this is going to upset the south, it is going to upset the north, it is going to create problems for the Seamen 's Union of Australia or it is going to create problems for the Transport Workers Union. We have to be very consistent. If we want to introduce something that will be in the best interests of all Tasmanians we may have to overlook some of the minor problems and some of the petty jealousies that occur down there. People say that it is going to close the southern port or that it is going to open the northern port. If it is going to be good for Tasmania we have to support it and stand steadfastly by it, without wavering and without saying that it is going to be good up north and bad in the south, we have a Minister in the north but we do not have a Minister in the south. Those factors should be forgotten when we have a population of 400,000 people- about the population of Geelong. That is the trouble with Tasmania. I only hope that the people come together and that in this enterprise by  Mr Barton  which is going to cost $30m, of which $ 15m will be guaranteed by the State Government, they can get away from the bickering and the arguments to make certain that it will be good for Tasmania. 
-Last week I spoke about the difficulties that Tasmania is encountering. I talked about the parochial attitudes that are killing the State. The north, the north-west and the south of the State are continually fighting against each other. I believe it is to the detriment of Tasmania. 
-No, I am not parochial. I beg your pardon, I am parochial. I have spoken of this matter several times. It has even entered the field of football. To think that Canberra beat Tasmania by four points! An ordinary team from the south of the mainland can beat Canberra at any given time. The fact that we are fighting against each other is having a detrimental effect on the economy of Tasmania. 
Yes, and its football. I have mentioned the difficulties that the State Government has had in trying to bring the Tiger line into operation. In the long term it will be beneficial to Tasmania. Now a stupid argument is raging about whether Launceston should have a casino. The people of Launceston are saying: Do not bring the casino up to us. It will cause all the moral troubles in the world. ' They are saying that it will do this and that. Honourable members from Tasmania come to Canberra and continually fight for the economy of Tasmania. 
We say that we need industries in Tasmania. I am saying very concisely that we need another casino in Tasmania to assist what will be our best industry, the tourist industry. Many other industries are leaving Tasmania. Although there is beauty in Tasmania, the people who come to Tasmania want a little more than beauty. They want night life. They want to have the best of two worlds. They can get the best of two worlds in Tasmania. They can have the old world which I hope will be promoted by the State Government and the Federal Government - 
-Forget about Federal Hotels. I do not care who builds the casino as long as the private sector builds it and as long as it will bring people to Tasmania to assist all the ailing industries. Hopefully it will create what we would like to see in Tasmania in the future. 
I ask my good friend the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  whether he read an article headed 'Tasmania will be better in Canada'. I very rarely say anything about the Premier of Tasmania, but it is an absolute disgrace to think that the Premier should go to the other side of the world and then start knocking the Federal Government. We are loyal Tasmanians first of all but we are also loyal Australians. We will stand by that. It is absolutely appalling that the Premier of the State has gone across to the other side of the world and made this statement. I hope that every good Tasmanian will remember that when the Premier returns to Tasmania. 
-Is the Acting Prime Minister aware of a statement that Tasmania would be better in Canada under the Canadian system of federation? In view of the wide-spread criticism of this statement, especially among people who are loyal Tasmanians first and loyal Australians second, will the Acting Prime Minister indicate whether there is any truth in this statement or whether it is just another attempt to knock the Government, by a man who is a long way away at the moment? 
I rise to support the amendments. I would like to congratulate the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and all his advisers on the amendments that they have made to the Trade Union Trading Authority. I can appreciate the fact that the trade union movement has an important function to perform and I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  on his initiatives in commencing the TUTA college and for all the foresight and insight that he put into it with the reaUsation that it would bring employers and employees closer together in the best interests of Australia. For that reason I can understand some of the remarks of the honourable member for Port Melbourne  (Mr Young),  but the Government has made a decision, and the members of the Government support the Minister most sincerely because they realise that the modifications and amendments to TUTA will be in the best interests of Australia. 
Australia has adopted a distinctive approach to trade union training. It has three elements, the first of which is public funding of trade union training. I beUeve that the people of Australia who will pay for this funding have an important part to play. They realise that some of the things that occurred in 1977 should not occur and they are hopeful that the funding of the trade union training college will overcome some of those problems and bring the employers and the employees closer together. If 1 can just recall some of the things that occurred within the trade union movement in 1977 I think there will be a realisation that if the $3m is to be spent, it should be spent in the best interests of Australia and also in the hope that the trade union movement will understand that the people of Australia are concerned at some of the things that are occurring in that particular arena. 
In this country we have an excellent constitutional framework for settling disputes impartially through the processes of conciliation and arbitration. Direct action need not and should not occur. Indeed the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission said in May 1977 that although the recent dispute picture was one of a large number of stoppages involving small numbers of persons and sometimes short-lived, it was nevertheless disturbed by the high incidence of stoppages. 
The Commission expressed particular concern about two severely disruptive strikes, one affecting the delivery of petrol in Victoria - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I thank you for your guidance. I am endeavouring to convey the fact that $3m will be spent on trade union training and the people of Australia expect some results from that training. I am sure that the honourable member for Hindmarsh originally hoped that some of the problems that we are encountering in Australia at the moment would be overcome by the sensible training of people involved in the trade union movement. I am reflecting the picture of 1 977 - 
-Of course. I feel duty bound to bring to the notice of the House some of the problems that occurred in 1977, in the sincere hope that with the spending of $3m some of these problems will be overcome as TUTA progresses in the way that the honourable member for Hindmarsh indicated he would like to see it progress. I refer also to a dispute concerning the movement of aircraft which brought air travel virtually to a halt. The two disputes to which I have referred both had particularly damaging effects on Tasmania. They did much to affect the statistics but they caused serious dislocation in the community and brought hardship to many people. Of course, they hindered Australia's economic recovery which is vitally important to all honourable members. Similarly, a number of other disputes have been characterised by the disregard of wage indexation guidelines, their impact on the level of production, their implications for business confidence - 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
-No, it is not about apples. When will the Minister be announcing his decisions on the recommendations that came from the highly successful Oil Industry Conference? Is the Minister aware that the Tasmanian Government is instituting an inquiry into the price of petrol, which I believe in the Australian context is significant and important? 
-by leave-First of all I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  the  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Road Safety, and also the  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  and all members of the Committee. I was rather surprised that the honourable member for Newcastle spoke as he did. All members of the Committee worked in a spirit of co-operation. Today, unfortunately, he took the matter into the political arena once again and, I thought, made a few very unfair comparisons. I will forget about that because I have not got very much time. 
I agree with one point that he made, that it is a very important committee and that the report brought down is important. I am afraid that today road deaths are not given the publicity that they should be. If somebody was killed in a war there would be a hue and cry. Ten people die on the roads every day, and one of those ten dies as a result of a motor cycle accident. I believe that in some States of Australia young people are sent out to get killed on the roads, because they go out quite unsuspecting, unable to handle a motor cycle; they do not know enough about the roads and they do not know how to handle a motor cycle in a given situation. To me, that is cardinal. 
I firmly believe that every young rider of a motor cycle should have a pre-training test before he or she is allowed on to the Australian roads. Sometimes I read where a young person of 15 or 16 years of age has a motor cycle for two weeks and is then killed. Unfortunately, some are injured in such a way that they create many burdens to the community in respect of hospital costs et cetera. An emotional situation which affects their parents is created. It is a growing problem. It is one of which the Committee is aware. We have all worked in a spirit of cooperation, hoping to overcome the problems of road safety, hoping to overcome some of the tragic deaths that occur on our roads today. 
I congratulate the  Chairman  of the Committee for his diligent work. I also congratulate the  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee because he has a great insight into road safety. He has contributed, but today he made reference to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  spending Sim on an aeroplane, when that does not even concern road safety. Let us get on with the job of overcoming road deaths in Australia. Let us forget about the pettiness of politics and get on with the job of reminding the people that we all have a moral obligation to reduce the number of deaths on our roads, deaths that should not occur but do because we as bumbling politicians do not work in unity and do not talk to the States about having uniform road laws or pre-training courses. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
-Actually, I am going to speak tonight about apples. This is a very serious matter. I have received quite a few complaints and I have been ridiculed to a certain degree about the quality of the apples being sold in the parliamentary dining room and in the parliamentary canteen. I can tolerate a certain amount, but on this occasion, after an apple which was rotten was almost thrown at me, I decided to look into the situation. I do not see the dining room or the canteen as being any different from any shop in Canberra or anywhere else in Australia. They are supplying apples and other fruit to the community. A lot of visitors who come to Parliament House and a lot of people who work here buy apples in the dining room and the canteen and I expect them to buy fruit of good quality. 
-My friend mentions New South Wales. I rejected the fact that they were Tasmanian apples, but at this time I have to eat humble pie. I went downstairs and looked at the case of apples, which was from Tasmania. There were 96 apples in the case and I cut some of them apart. To say the least, they were rotten. My friend the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  who is here tonight, and I were absolutely bewildered and disgusted. 
-They came from Tasmania. I checked the records. I checked the serial number on the box and, if I might have a little bit of silence because I know that the honourable member is interested in apples, I will relate what happened to the case of apples from the time they were picked in Tasmania until they were consumed in the parliamentary dining room. The apples were picked on 4, 5 and 6 April 1978 at a property at Huonville in Tasmania. They were placed in storage on 7 April 1978, which was the final date approved by the Department of Agriculture in Tasmania. The apples were of the highest quality and were packed on 18 April 1978. They were subsequently freighted to Sydney on 20 April. I ask honourable members to note that they were freighted by an agent. The grower supplied the apples, of course. They were packed by the grower and then an agent in Tasmania took over and freighted them to Sydney in New South Wales. 
In Sydney they were purchased by an agent, who at the expiration of approximately a fortnight sold them to another agent. In turn, that agent sold them to another agent in New South Wales who in turn sold them to an agent in Canberra, who finally supplied the apples to the parliamentary dining room. The point I make is that it took six weeks for the apples to be finally consumed in Parliament House- six weeks and four different agents. Unfortunately, we Tasmanians have to suffer because our apples are not of the highest quality due to the steps I have mentioned. The apples went to Sydney and from Sydney to Canberra and were handled by four different agents. I could tell honourable members the price but I will not at this point. 
-Actually it is serious that it should take fresh fruit so long to get to the consumer, having been handled by four different agents. How the dickens can we compete with New South Wales apples? I know that New South Wales has taken over as the largest grower of apples in Australia, but I repeat that it is an appalling situation and I hope we will be able to overcome it. 
I thank the previous  speaker  for his comments. I will make mine rather brief because we have two northern Tasmanian members in the House tonight- the Minister for National Develpment  (Mr Newman),  representing the electorate of Bass, and the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr).  From the outset I want to say. quite clearly and concisely that thank goodness the parochial attitude that prevails in Tasmania goes out the door tonight. I could easily have got up and said that Hobart is the. far better port and that is where the Australian Maritime College should be, but I am not going to do so. The College is to be in Launceston. It will be of great benefit to the city of Launceston and to the men and women who in future will sail our ships and be involved in the College. 
The purpose of the Maritime College Bill is to establish the Australian Maritime College at Launceston as a corporate body. The Bill stipulates in detail the functions and powers of the College and provides for a council to govern the College and administer its affairs. As a college of advanced education it will be subject to general oversight by the Tertiary Education Commission. The College will be concerned with the education and training of maritime and fishing industry personnel. It is the only college in Australia to be established solely for this purpose. Since the College is being established to serve Australia-wide needs, the Government intends that it will develop standards of education and training which will be acceptable at international level. The Bill provides the necessary framework for the College to achieve this aim under the guidance of its governing council. The council will be appointed and its membership announced as soon as possible after the passage of this legislation. 
The College will develop into an important educational institution in Australia. It is to provide maritime-related education and training for people who wish to become, or who are, officers of merchant or fishing vessels. The College will have as its principal role the instruction of fishermen, an industry which is vitally important to Tasmania as well as to Australia. It will also provide a major new industry. It will employ over 200 staff and it will have more than SOO students, plus 100 temporary students at given times. This is important to Tasmania because its industries are decreasing. Industries are leaving Tasmania. The fact that we will have 200 people there plus 500 students over a period of time will generate income and assist the service industries in Launceston. Those people will find Launceston a delightful place to be in. 
Honourable members should be aware that Tasmania is steeped in maritime history. It was discovered in 1642 by Abel Tasman and since that time some of the most remarkable explorers that have ever circumnavigated the world have come to Tasmania. I believe they have left in every Tasmanian a trace of a love of the sea. It is imperative that the College be in Launceston because it will be of extreme benefit to the State for the economic reasons thai I have mentioned. But more, it will give Tasmania another industry- an industry that the Tasmanians will love. 
-That is most important. The economic reasons that I have mentioned are important. I do not know whether honourable members are aware that Tasmania is approximately 190 miles wide and 180 miles long. It is between the 40th and the 43rd parallel of the Southern Hemisphere. Launceston, with a population of about 120,000, is, I repeat, a delightful place. It is situated at the confluence of the North and South Esk rivers and is the second city of Tasmania. It is surrounded by beautiful land and is near beaches. It is best known as the birthplace of the plan to found Melbourne in 1835. John Batman returned to Launceston after buying 1,600 acres of land on Port Phillip Bay where Melbourne is today. It is most significant that it is only 150 miles from Melbourne. 
I commend the College to all honourable members and would like to give the members from Launceston the opportunity to express their views tonight. I am not adopting the parochial attitude that it should be in Hobart. I think tonight it should be in Launceston and for that reason I give them the opportunity to talk in this House and tell the people of Launceston the reason why and what it will do to the economy of Tasmania. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 1 June 1978: 
1 ) Has the Tasmanian Government approached him to secure a Government contribution to a research project on the production of ethanol from sugar beet. 
Has the Government fully examined the proposed project; if not, will it do so. 
Has the Tasmanian Government been kept fully informed of what action the Commonwealth proposes to take. 
Has his attention been drawn to an estimate of the Tasmanian Minister for Resources and Energy that a sugar beet for ethanol industry could be fully viable in Tasmania within 6 years. 
-Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware that there is a grave disparity in the price or petrol sold to consumers throughout Australia even taking into consideration the recent fuel subsidy plan? Will he advise the House when he will announce the findings of the oil industry conference, specifically those relating to the marketing and pricing of petroleum products in Australia? 
When I first became a member of this Parliament about  Vh  years ago a royal commission was held into the petroleum industry and I have spoken about it several times since then. 
-I think the Treasurer does recall it. 
-I thank the Treasurer. I said at one time that one of the recommendations of the royal commission should have been applied. Now that I think back, I realise that the oil industry changes very rapidly and it is very hard to keep up with those changes. I am pleased to see the honourable member for 
Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  present tonight because he will know exactly what I am going to say. He will probably agree with me because he has been involved in the industry. He knows that there are 16,000 service station proprietors in Australia. At the moment many of them are fighting for their very existence. I am afraid this is because the oil companies have used and abused them and have directed them in a way that can only be described as absolutely shameful. 
About three months ago I mentioned in this House that I thought that the Government was being used by the oil industry, particularly the oil companies, in that the Government was going to introduce a scheme which it called a fuel subsidy scheme. I said at the time that it would be  very  difficult to introduce such a scheme because of the relevant city prices, which varied so much from State to State. I said that it would be all right for some but not for others. I drew attention to the fact that in Tasmania in general and Hobart in particular - 
Yes, I do. I am proud of it, too. I said at the time that the price of petrol in Hobart and on average throughout Tasmania was approximately 22.9 cents per litre. I said that this price was far too high compared with the prices in some of the other capital cities in Australia. The Prices Justification Tribunal fixes a maximum wholesale price. I often wonder what would be the minimum wholesale price. I spoke several times on that subject. Over a period of about three months since then the price of petrol in certain parts of Hobart has come down to 1 5.2 cents per litre 
-No, I take no credit for that, not a bit. 
-I am very modest, but I cannot take any credit as many unfortunate service station proprietors were driven to the wall because the oil companies were using the excuse, firstly, of rationalisation and, secondly, of being after volume sales. But they forgot that Tasmania has a population of only 400,000. The market place was controlled. Tasmania had a system of rostering whereby everybody got a fair opportunity. I might say that the businesses were relatively lucrative if people were prepared to work. 
-I did. I worked extremely hard for 16 years. Like the honourable member for Griffith, I was very proud to wear a pair of overalls and to serve people. When I went home at night I had that sense of achievement that I was working, earning money and providing for my family. Surely that is what life is all about. But the service station proprietors needed certain protection. 
-Yes, I did. 
I thank the honourable member. The proprietors needed protection. In the course of the progress of the oil companies towards rationalisation and volume sales some of the proprietors were down the drain in that the oil companies said to them: 'You have to discount to compete with somebody across the road. I am sorry, but we cannot subsidise you'. The oil companies allowed some of the proprietors to be thrown to the wind. 
-As the honourable member for Griffith said, the oil companies have been standing over them for years. The Government has some very fine Ministers. I know that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  who is sitting at the table, realises that what I am saying is perfectly true. We are now looking at the oil industry. The latest increase took the price of oil to world parity. It is important that we go to world parity. We need to look after our reserves of oil for the 1 980s. We also need to know that the oil industry is going to be a viable industry. We are dependent - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Very good. 
I have spoken several times in the House about fuel conservation and I have said that there should be alternatives to petrol driven motor vehicles. Tonight I want to switch a little; I want to talk about the insulation of homes and other occupied buildings as an energy conservation measure. This is now compulsory for new houses in New Zealand and I believe it also should be in Australia. State governments should introduce loan schemes to reduce the enormous amount of energy being wasted through conventional household heating. I understand that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has assisted in research which shows that something like 30 per cent of household heating escapes through the ceiling of an uninsulated house. 
Insulation, of course, is a thermal control measure which works both ways: It has a beneficial cooling effect in hot, summer conditions and has a warming effect in winter conditions. It is extremely beneficial to sick people, pensioners and others to keep them cool in the summer and warm in the winter. Insulation can also conserve energy, which I believe is most beneficial. Its benefits are quite clear. It is equally clear that many Australians cannot afford the capital cost. That is why I believe the State governments should introduce loan schemes, which probably could be handled through State electricity authorities. I know that State electricity authorities have been long-time advocates of home insulation. It is unfortunate that their political masters have not given due regard to their advice. I know also that governments find it very difficult in the present economic climate to throw money around, particularly on all the frills that go with it. The money I am talking about would be fully recoverable. 
I believe it would be in the interest of all governments also to look to compulsory insulation of all new public buildings, particularly hospitals and schools. The heating costs in uninsulated schools in the colder parts of this country are extremely high, partly because the buildings are occupied for the limited number of hours five days a week and not during the weekends. Either they are heated constantly during the winter, even though they are unoccupied for the greater proportion of the time, or high capacity heating systems have to be installed to make the buildings livable during school hours only. Of course there is the problem of summer heat. Adequate insulation would minimise both problems with a considerable saving in energy. I firmly believe that State governments should institute plans to provide insulation in all new homes and also in public buildings. I believe that it would be of great benefit to the conservation of energy. 
I switch for a few seconds to something that is occurring in Hobart. I notice that my friend the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  is in the House tonight. The honourable member for Denison supported me in the call to have an inquiry into the women's centres in Hobart. I believe that the information that has been brought to the notice of the Tasmanian Government by the honourable member for Denison, and I support him, is absolutely scandalous. I also believe that the way in which the honourable member for Denison and I were treated in the Tasmanian State Parliament today when we were blamed for bringing forward that information is absolutely scandalous. I believe that we were perfectly entitled to bring to the notice of the Tasmanian public things occurring in the community that we do not believe in. I believe, so does the responsible Minister in Tasmania, that we have a moral responsibility to tell the Tasmanian public - 
-I am pleased to enter this cognate debate, and the first Bill is the States Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill 1978. The purpose of the Bill is to provide for direct matching grants for the States for a range of home care services and for the salaries of approved welfare officers employed at or in association with senior citizen centres. The Bill provides for a continuation of subsidies on a two for one basis for the capital cost of senior citizen centres. 
The States Grants (Home Care) Amendment Act was introduced in 1969 on the basis of a recommendation at the 1968 Health Ministers Conference. The Act broadly provides three forms of assistance: One, the home care service schemes which provide housekeeping and other domestic assistance to aged persons in their own homes; two, the building and equipping of senior citizen centres; and three, the employment of welfare officers by or in association with senior citizen centres. For this program, which I support completely, there is an increase of 12.28 per cent in the Estimates for this financial year over expenditure for the last financial year and I believe quite firmly that it is money well spent. I believe that it is of paramount importance that we help people to stay in their own homes, provide valuable counselling services and also give enjoyable entertainment to our elderly citizens in good senior citizen clubs. I support those objectives, and I believe that everybody in this House would support them. 
The purpose of the other Bill we are debating, the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill 1978, is to extend for a further period of 12 months the provisions of the Homeless Persons Assistance Act which is due to expire on 13 December 1978. This is to allow for full consultation with the State governments and for future arrangements to be made to meet the needs of homeless people in the light of the experience gained from the program to date. No honourable member will doubt the necessity to provide accommodation assistance to people who, for various reasons, have found themselves in the difficult situation of being homeless for a long period or for a short period. I believe that this is money well spent and that the Bill should receive full acceptance. The principal Act provides for capital grants to be made to eligible organisations, which are defined as non-profit organisations, local governing bodies and charitable or benevolent trusts, towards the full cost of the purchase, construction or rental of buildings, including the purchase of furniture and equipment. 
The legislation also enables the Commonwealth to pay 50 per cent of the salary of a social welfare worker employed at a homeless persons assistance centre. Approved organisations may also be paid a daily subsidy, at a prescribed rate of 75c a day for each homeless person for whom both food and accommodation are provided and a subsidy of 25c a day for each meal supplied to non-resident homeless persons. An amount of $9.8m has been approved for expenditure under the Act to date. Of this amount, $3. 5m had been expended by 30 June 1978. An amount of $3.6m has been allocated for expenditure in 1978-79 and the remaining $2. 7m will be carried forward for expenditure in 1979-80. Expenditure on rental and salary subsidies for the period 13 December 1974 to 30 June 1978 totalled $646,665. 
No honourable member will dispute the fact that this money is urgently required to provide vital assistance for people in need. But I think that a very important proviso must be placed upon this expenditure. These centres should be the subject of the closest possible scrutiny to make absolutely certain that the people who are going to them are receiving the correct assistance and that they are well behaved. The people working in the centres should be of the highest possible calibre and be able to direct in a way that will assist these unfortunate people to become better citizens. I think that the good Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who is at the table, will know what I am driving at. I firmly believe that we should have these centres and that they should be conducted in a christian way that will assist the people going to them. We should make absolutely certain that the children who are also housed at the centres are not placed in a position in which they will be influenced by some minority groups. 
I would now like to deal again with senior citizens, the people who have reached an age at which they need special assistance. Although I hate to classify, they can be classified very differently. Some have been more fortunate than others. Some have been able to save money and probably have been able to afford assistance in some way or another. Others, because of various reasons, such as the fact that they have raised a very large family or have suffered unfortunate circumstances, have reached an age at which they are completely dependent on other people for assistance. I believe, and I have never varied from this point of view, that when a person is elderly every effort should be made by the people in power to provide the care and attention needed to make the rest of that person's life happy and, to a degree, contented. 
The intensely political nature of the lobby and political groups concerned about old people's welfare is one of the things that strikes the politician. They are extraordinarily well organised. Their publicity machines are permanently primed. They respond with quickness to Press inquiries, submit quickly to a government inquiry and co-operate to the point of badgering. But much of their thinking is so conditioned by their history of involvement and by the daytoday exigencies of providing housing or nursing care that they are often incapable of bringing a fresh critical eye to the serious situation of housing the elderly in Australia. A good example is the argument about nursing homes. Stated simply, one side says that we have too many nursing homes and we rely on them, like an elephant's graveyard for the old, when people get too difficult for their families to manage. What an extremely sad situation. I know, and so do many people in Australia, that some families cannot wait to get their elderly mother or father out of their home and into an institution or a nursing home. It is sad, but it is true. 
We are living in a very selfish age. I think that we can learn a lot from other countries where it is believed that the elderly mother or father is an integral part of the family structure. Young people can learn a great deal from the elderly. The elderly want to be part of the family and part of the happenings associated with bringing up children. Some mothers do not like interference from elderly people and I can understand that. They believe that the elderly interfere with the bringing up of the family and feel they are a burden to them. They sometimes use their powers of persuasion to get their husbands to find accommodation elsewhere for the elderly parents. It seems that some people just cannot wait for their parents to die. I am sorry that I must make that point. They want, firstly, to get rid of them and, secondly, to get the little things that may be of advantage when they die. 
The other side of the argument states that there is a desperate shortage of nursing home beds. They are a necessary last stopping place for elderly people who are so ill that they require constant nursing and care. Everyone would agree that when an elderly person reaches the stage of requiring this assistance there should be places, and of course there are, where they can go. I firmly agree that both sides of the argument, when explained fully, are very convincing. We probably need to ignore temporarily both arguments and take a fresh look at the nursing home situation; to consider its history in this country and try to understand how and why we rely on nursing homes so much. The economic argument alone for doing this is compelling since more than one-third of the Commonwealth Government's budget for aged persons goes towards subsidising some hundreds of thousands of people who are at present in nursing homes. It might be surprising for people to know that Australia has more nursing home beds per 1,000 people than any other country. This, plus the fact that the vast majority of the homes are run for profit by the private sector, makes them the subject of controversy. I do not mean to criticise them or to say that they are not being run in the best interests of the elderly people. Some are run very efficiently; some are very charitable; some do the utmost to provide decent accommodation and loving care for the elderly of Australia. 
The concept is anomalous; they are neither hospitals nor homes but they promise the benefits of both. Their reality is often horrific. We have all seen elderly ladies and gentlemen lying in beds or sitting in the sun, staring into infinity, just waiting to die. It is a tremendous responsibility for everybody involved in government to make absolutely certain that they are sure of the path to be followed for the elderly of Australia. I draw attention to a Federal Government survey released on 14 April 1976. This survey seems to have been forgotten but I believe it is most significant and important. It showed that 100,000 aged people are living in sub-standard houses, some of which are structurally inferior and infested with pests and vermin. It further disclosed that 24,200 people over the age of 60 years are living in houses or flats which are beyond repair. Such is the effect of inflation. This is one of the problems of high wages. Such is the problem of people on fixed incomes who are unable to pay for the repair, et cetera, of their homes. 
The survey investigated living conditions of aged people in country and city areas and concluded that the proportion of aged people living in unsatisfactory conditions was higher outside capital cities. The State with the highest percentage of aged people in unsatisfactory housing was Tasmania, where 19 per cent of such people were involved. I am ashamed of that because I am from Tasmania. The honourable member for 
Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  who is in the chamber, is also from Tasmania. I am not being critical of anybody, not even the Tasmanian Government It is just a situation that needs reversing; it is a situation that requires assistance. In fact, the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  and the Minister for Health, who are both at the table, were present at the opening of a community centre in Hobart at which they impressed the ordinary, average person with their complete sincerity and their understanding of the problems. After the three difficult years we have had since that time it is now starting to be driven home that the Minister for Health is a sincere man who is understanding and appreciative of the problems of the sick and elderly people of Australia. 
The survey showed that many homes suffered from major sanitation problems and building and construction failure. Such is the tragedy of inflation that it is difficult for aged people to keep their home in a good state of repair. Old age is sometimes referred to as the tragedy of life. It is tragic when elderly people are battling to survive and to live a decent, respectable life in their retirement. 
I make no secret of the fact that I am unhappy with some aspects of the Budget, particularly those aspects relating to the pensioners of Australia. I believe that the quarterly adjustments to the consumer price index should be paid quarterly. I also believe that if a person is over the age of 70, irrespective of the means test, he or she should get any increases that are due to him or her. Even to live to the age of 70 is quite remarkable today. The stress and the strain and the difficulties of living in the complicated world that we know today take their toll. 
-I do not think so but I hope so. It is very easy for me to speak personally because I lost both of my parents at a very early age. Unfortunately, my wife's father died two years ago at the age of 83, but my wife's mother, who is 82 years of age, is always welcome in our house. We always try to make it home to her. We sometimes have to put up with the problem of the aged interfering in the way in which we raise our children. I believe that our attitude should be the attitude of the majority of Australians. If it were we would not have the critical situation of aged people trying to find accommodation and wondering where they are going to spend the twilight of their lives. I also believe this should be a subject with which every politician in this House should become vitally involved. We should learn a lesson from those countries which have shown a distinct inclination to assist their elderly people. I detect in my mother-in-law's case the point that I made earlier- she wants to belong. I know that she is symbolic of many hundreds of thousands of elderly Australians. They want to belong and they want to stay in the family structure. I believe that if this Government continues with the thrust of its assistance it will be beneficial to all those senior people. 
I am pleased to see so many honourable members from Tasmania come into the House. 
-I acknowledge my colleagues. I think it is disgraceful that the two previous speakers from the Opposition should speak in such a cynical way. It is very good to see the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  who is the fine honourable member for Braddon, come into the House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)That is not a point of order. I call the honourable member for Franklin. 
-Honourable members may recall that in December 1976- if they remember rightly- we had a little disagreement in the party room which we were entitled to have. I said that the stabilisation amount for apples should be increased to $3. We discussed it at length. We came into the Parliament and all of a sudden the Opposition moved a very cynical amendment. Opposition members copied what I had said. They tried to gain political mileage out of it but failed miserably. Honourable members may recall that, at the last election, in the Huon I gained a higher vote than I had at the previous election. The people of Tasmania realised that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  was being hypocritical because he had forgotten that he was the person who suggested that the stabilisation scheme should finish and, in fact, that the industry in Tasmania should be restructured to put the poor devils out of their misery. I cannot be specific about the words he used but what he was saying was that the industry should be discontinued in Tasmania. 
I am surprised that the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  should try to embarrass me. It is very easy to walk across the floor but I do not see many of you fellows walk across the floor. You would be expelled. In the history of the Labor Party only one honourable member moved across this floor and he was expelled. 
I rise to speak to the Appropriation Bill and, in the time that is afforded me, I will confine my remarks specifically to the activities of the Department of Social Security. I believe that the Department has grave problems to combat. The care of the sick and the aged, and the protection of the welfare of the needy in the community, is becoming a difficult and extremely complex task. One could argue the political point that during high inflation people on fixed incomes have been adversely affected. The backlash from that has been spelled out over and over again in this House. Admittedly, now that inflation is decreasing we still have a difficult situation, and the unfortunate aspect of high unemployment. Regrettably, when people cannot get jobs there are social implications which flow right back through into the family unit, and thus many people are affected adversely. 
The earnest desire of this Government- and I am sure of all Governments- is to ensure that people in need receive fair and adequate treatment. Sometimes that is extremely difficult to achieve. Unfortunately, in our society there are many who do not require assistance but nevertheless derive it although it should be redirected to the needy. We are all aware of the millions of dollars that have been misused as a result of certain social security activities and of how the Government searches out those who abuse the system and thus decrease the benefits that could flow to others who are genuinely in need. I suppose that we will have to live with it, because, unfortunately, everybody is not fair, everybody does not care for his neighbour, everybody does not care for the needy, and it is up to politicians to do a tremendous amount more than merely give lip service, to fight on a political level to endeavour to ensure that some of those who are receiving assistance at the expense of others are sought out in the community and shown for what they really are. 
I mentioned last week, that many pensioners live in substandard homes, some of which are structurally inferior and infested with pests and vermin. Those are not my words but are words taken from previous reports on the subject. It is estimated that more than 100,000 persons in Australia are in that difficult situation. Again, it is estimated that more than 24,000 people over the age of 60 are living in houses or flats that are completely beyond repair. I think one can derive from those figures the fact that we have a massive job to do and that continual political arguing will not overcome the problem. I plead once again with people who, for one reason or another, are deriving social welfare benefits unlawfully, to think carefully of those elderly people who are living in what could only be termed shocking conditions. In some cases it can be argued that those conditions are partly their own fault, but in the majority of cases the end situation has been determined by circumstances. I repeat, it could have resulted fom their having reared large families; it could be because of sickness or because of ill luck that they are in such difficult straits today. It is up to every politician in this Parliament to realise their needs and try to meet them. 
Again, we are faced with the problems of those who live in nursing homes. It is estimated that approximately 56,000 people live in such institutions. As I mentioned last week, Australia has a greater number of nursing home beds per thousand of population than has any other country. That shows an extraordinary weakness in our civilisation- the fact that we have so many selfish people who just cannot wait to get their elderly relatives into nursing homes. That point, of course, could be argued. 
I do not blame the lobbying groups who represent the elderly people. Their publicity machines are permanently primed. They respond with quickness to Press inquiries. They can quickly submit evidence to a government inquiry. They co-operate and know exactly what to do and when to strike at a critical point. I think they realise that the only way they can overcome this massive problem is to fight on a political level- to lobby at every opportunity. My friend, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  who is at the table, and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who also is in the chamber, are aware of this situation. Of course, at times they are plagued with political lobbyists; but I think that lobbying is the only way that the real needs and the real problems of the elderly can be drawn to the attention of Ministers. Of course, Ministers receive lobbyists as part of their responsibility. 
I think that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  who unfortunately is not in the chamber today, has indicated already that he supports me on the principle I now outline. Sometimes members are accused of being disloyal to their party; but I think that, in a situation such as this, because of our responsibility to our electorates we have to stick firmly by what we said during difficult election campaigns. In 1975 we said to the pensioners that we would fight for quarterly adjustments to their pensions in line with movements in the consumer price index. Unfortunately, during 1975-76 we paid pension increases on a half-yearly basis. Now, unfortunately, we have made a Cabinet decision to pay pension increases on a yearly basis. Even though it can be argued that because of the drop in the rate of inflation the pension increases are not very large, I know and many other members in this chamber genuinely know that many pensioners require that little extra at certain times and in certain situations. For that very reason, I cannot support my Government on its decision to pay pension increases on a yearly basis. 
The honourable member for Denison has indicated already his support for my contention, and possibly other honourable members support me. It is not a matter of being disloyal to my party. I think that the reason that many of us joined the Liberal Party was that it allows its members to say what they believe and to indicate to the Government what is really happening in their electorates. For that very reason I have made my statement nice and strong. It is not a matter of walking across the floor and voting with the Opposition. That is a very simple process, as we have said before. It is simply the fact that when we say something we should try to adhere to it. 
The Opposition members could look at themselves in a mirror and say that during the period from 1972 to 1975 they destroyed many pensioners with the high rate of inflation at that time. Pensioners could not get their homes repaired; they could not get their washing machines repaired, et cetera. So the Opposition's argument about pensioners is a hollow one. I am very sincere in saying that I do not support my Government on its decision to pay pension increases on a yearly basis, because many pensioners require that little extra at certain times. That little bit means so very much to them. In 1975 we said that we would fight for quarterly adjustments to their pensions. Unfortunately, due to Government legislation at the time, we could not do that; we made only half-yearly adjustments. Now we have gone to adjusting them on a yearly basis. I make the point again that I do not agree with that decision. 
Also, there should be no means test on increases in pensions paid to pensioners who are over 70 years of age. If a person can live to 70 years of age in this complex world, irrespective of whether he has been able to save and have the advantages of an easy life, for the life of me I cannot understand why his pension increases should be means tested. I believe that anyone who attains the age of 70 years should not have increases in his pension means tested. I pose that proposition to the Government. I hope that my Government understands that I make these points as a matter of principle. When we say something to somebody during an election campaign we cannot go back on what we say. I hope that my Government takes due note of what I have said. Many honourable members, like me, believe in the principle that if we say certain things on a platform we have to adhere to them. In saying these things, a person cannot be accused of being disloyal to his party. In fact, when a member of parliament does this he might be able to change his Party's attitude and, hopefully, get it in tune with what is happening in the community. 
We saw many pensioners here today. They pressed the same point upon me: They said that they did not want to see the Opposition because the Opposition had a wonderful political point to throw back at us. All the sins of the Opposition 's years in government are forgotten by it and all of a sudden it realises that pensions are a target that it can attack. It believes that it has something with which to attack that target. I know that the Minister at the table is taking due note of what I am saying. He knows me well enough to know that when I say something I mean it. 
-Is the Minister for Home Affairs aware of legislation recently introduced into the United Kingdom Parliament protecting children from the exploitation of child pornography? Will the Minister give consideration to introducing similar legislation into this Parliament? 
I was undecided about whether to say a few words today on this legislation, but I decided to do so in view of some of the remarks that have been made by Opposition members. Honourable members will recall that last week I was very specific in what I said. I said that I opposed my Government in its decision to index pensions on an annual basis. I said also- I was very specific about this-that I was against the means testing of pension increases in relation to people over' the age of 70 years. There was no beating around the bush on my part. I was very specific in what I said. I must say that I have been very annoyed at some of the occurrences over the last week. 
As a member of the Liberal Party- I will always be a member of the Liberal Party- I firmly believe that when I have something to say I am entitled to say it as an individual. On the other hand, Opposition members do not have that right or that opportunity. They are governed by the Caucus. When they come into this chamber they know dashed well what they have to do. They know that they cannot vote in any way other than that determined by the Caucus. I take exception to that. I said last week that it is very easy to cross the floor and vote with the Opposition. There is nothing to it. I have done it before and I can do it again. I thought that the Opposition was going to the extreme when its members said that one of my colleagues was cowardly and that another did not have the fortitude to stand up for what he thought was right. Those two honourable members do have the fortitude to stand by their convictions. Last night they said that they disagreed with what the Government was doing. 
-Just wait a minute. They said that they disagreed with what the Government was doing. They said that they would not vote for the Government. They walked out of the chamber when the vote was taken. They are firmly entitled to do that, just as I did. 
I rise to support my friend, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  in wishing the new Pope a happy reign. The sincere hope of all Christians is that he will be able to work for the betterment of mankind, for the poor and underprivileged. Certainly, he has had the right background to appreciate all the problems in the world today. With the responsibility of representing over 700 million Catholics and faced also with the prospect of trying to heal some of the problems in the world today, I sincerely hope that his reign is a longer one than that of Pope John Paul 1. 1 hope that Pope John Paul II reigns successfully with a realisation that we have problems in the world today. With his humble beginnings, I believe that he is the right man. I am certain that tonight the 35 million Polish Catholics will be extremely proud of this man. He came from humble beginnings but is now the leader of 700 million Catholics in the world today. He is a person to whom other Christians will look for guidance and hope in the future. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys),  a man with a similar background to mine, must realise that everybody in the world today is human and is apt to make mistakes. The difficulty we face today is to determine who is justifiably needy and who may- I emphasise the word 'may'- be abusing the system. That is the problem this Government is faced with today. It has to sort out the number of people who are abusing the system at the expense of other people. Sometimes one hears in the community the sheer hypocrisy of people- I am not referring to the honourable member for Griffith, because he is not a bad fellow- saying that money is being used and abused whilst on the other side of the coin they are saying that people are in need. I have said it before and I think most honourable members will agree with me that we have to try to find a solution to this massive problem. We have to try to sort out the people who are abusing the system at the expense of people who are in need. 
I think that the honourable member for Griffith must realise that within the Department of Social Security there are people who probably are unaware of some of the massive social problems with which this Government is faced, with which governments of the past have been faced and with which governments of the future will be faced. I hope that he will realise also that there are many service station proprietors, his previous occupation, who are in need of assistance and guidance not only from this Government but from parliamentarians in this place. I believe that what has been happening to the service station proprietors in Australia today can only be described as cardinally wrong. They are being used and abused by massive oil companies. 
-That is a pretty good description of it too. I am lost for words tonight. Coming back to the point, we have to realise that there are about 16,000 service station proprietors in Australia today who are being used by oil companies. I do not altogether blame the oil companies. The circumstances of the oil industry change from day to day. Unfortunately, these poor proprietors are the victims of this change due to the rationalisation of the industry and due to the introduction of the oil companies into the retail market, due to price cutting - 
-Due to the complete lack of sensitivity. Just because service station proprietors are dressed in overalls and just because they do not present themselves like mee distinctive perfect businessmen, honourable members opposite are apt to forget about them. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Tonight I wish to talk about an alternative to petroleum, a quiet revolution which is going on in Austraiian industry and transportation. Its name is liquid propane gas. LPG started as a by-product of petrol, but ironically it is shaping up as a real alternative. Because it is cheaper, clearer and more plentiful than petrol, many industries and company vehicles are being switched to LPG. New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania and Queensland are switching slowly but surely. Many taxi companies and freight firms are leading the way. Victoria has approximately 2,000 trucks and 500 taxis which have been converted to LPG. Perhaps that is because the Bass Strait field is easily able to supply the whole of Victoria. Many Victorian taxis are already powered by LPG without the passenger being any the wiser. 
With the new fuel costs, it is imperative that conversion to LPG be encouraged by the Government. Incentives must be made available to car manufacturers and others to convert to LPG. Our refineries are at near capacity production. So even if every second car on the road wanted to convert, we could not keep up the supply. A spokesman for the Victorian Road Transport Association said that there were just enough LPG outlets to enable a gas powered semi-trailer to run between Sydney and Melbourne. That is an absolutely atrocious situation.  Mr Alan  Lang, the  president  of the Australian Taxicab Association, estimated that approximately 500 cabs in Melbourne had converted to LPG. Cab drivers are businessmen and if they can see that gas is cheaper, they will go for it. The position industry-wide is not so clear because the taxi industry subsidises its radio operations from petrol sales. If those sales are reduced, the industry will have to find another way to pay for its radio operations. 
One of Sydney's largest municipal councilsNorth Sydney- has converted its fleet of 27 trucks to LPG. The council's engineer said this week that the council had saved approximately $200 a year per vehicle since converting to LPG, thus saving ratepayers well over $5,000. The council's switch to LPG was part of the clean air program it started about four years ago. The advantages of using LPG powered trucks ranging from 2 tonnes to 8 tonnes far outweigh any disadvantages. He listed the good points. I think it is important that people of Australia realise that there are good points. We seem to think that just because LPG is not talked about, and is not made available to the majority of Australians, we should shy away from it. 
Its use results in a reduction in exhaust pollution. It produces about 60 per cent less pollution than petrol driven engines. The increased life of oil niters, carburettors, batteries and spark plugs results in a saving of 25c a gallon, using our old imperial measurements. The cost of conversion is approximately $500 to $600 for each vehicle, but that cost has to be paid only once. For the cost of about $75 the conversion kit can be switched to another vehicle. Conversion is remarkably simple. All that is needed is a gas tank, usually of about 15 gallons capacity, a converter to reduce the gas from high to atmospheric pressure, and a mixer on top of the carburettor. So conversion is very simple. A converted vehicle can usually run either on petrol or gas, selection being by means of a switch on the dashboard. 
Sometimes I think it is absolutely ironic that car manufacturers offer as options a choice of gearboxes, differentials and different types of upholstery but they never offer as an option an LPG powered engine. I think it is most important that we as politicians should begin to talk about LPG. About 90 per cent of our production is exported to Japan. We all talk about shortages of fuel and petrol that will occur in the 1980s but we do very little about it. So I just place that thought on record, and perhaps other honourable members can join in the debate at a later time. It is imperative that we begin to look for alternatives, because our transportation vehicles have to be powered. If we have shortages in the supply of one type of fuel we have to make absolutely certain that we can come up with alternatives. 
-It is much cleaner. Of course, by the use of LPG the pollution level is reduced, and that is most important in the areas of public transport and so on. Australia is one of the world 's largest producers of LPG but exports most of its production. As I mentioned, about 90 per cent of our production goes to Japan. A royal commission into the use of LPG- honourable members will probably be aware that that resulted in the Collins report- recently was critical of the huge volume of LPG exported to Japan. Gas production in Bass Strait during 1 976 by Esso-BHP was a staggering 1.9 million tonnes, of which 1.8 million tonnes was exported to Japan. Domestic consumption was a mere 433,285 tonnes. 
The Director of the Australian Institute of Petroleum said this week that Australia's biggest reserves of LPG were yet to be tapped. Most petroleum sources do not see LPG as being a viable alternative to petrol for the average motorist because it would take about four years to recoup the cost of conversion. We have to look at the future and to make absolutely certain that the people who make these sorts of statements realise that we could have shortages in the 1 980s. The cost of privately installing a high pressure tank above ground would be prohibitive. Regulations forbid highly explosive gas being stored close to a dwelling or footpath. Those sorts of obstacles are being put up, but they should not be. For example, on the Continent one can drive from one country to another filling up one's car with LPG at a petrol station. So these alternatives are available. We have to make certain that they are utilised. We have to make certain that people involved in transportation are made aware of LPG. 
For some years the larger petrol companies saw LPG as being a threat to their petrol sales. Today in the United Kingdom and such countries as Belgium, Holland, Italy, West Germany and Spain it is marketed from its own pump alongside petrol. It is advertised almost as extensively as is petrol. For example, many people who travel to the United Kingdom say that they can cover as much as 10,000 miles in travelling around. Most people cover about 10,000 miles when they travel overseas. They say that by using LPG the reduction in cost is such that their holiday is made far more attractive. If that can be said of the United Kingdom, surely to goodness with the highest rate of production of LPG per head of population in the world, we should start to utilise the LPG that we have available and we should make certain that in powering our motor vehicles we utilise the alternatives to petrol which is causing trouble now and will cause trouble. 
-There has been something on my mind for quite a few months. I want to get if off my chest tonight. 
-No, it is not hot air. After listening to my good friend on the other side I was loath to get up and speak. The petrol industry in Australia at the moment is in chaos. I feel extremely bad about a situation in my home State of Tasmania. I seem to feel responsible for it. As honourable members will realise, the Prices Justification Tribunal fixes the maximum wholesale price for petrol in every capital city in Australia. It does not vary greatly. Three months ago I drew attention to the fact that the price of petrol in Tasmania was about 5c a litre above the price in Melbourne. I said that this cost the economy of Tasmania about $1 lm to $12m. I said that it was unfair and unjust. After that the oil companies- I do not know whether it was to have a good shot at Bruce Goodluck or notintroduced certain schemes in Tasmania that brought the price of petrol down. Unfortunately many good service station proprietors were forced out of business as a result. 
The oil companies brought the new scheme in under the guise firstly of rationalisation; secondly, in pursuit of volume sales; and thirdly, to seek entry into the retail market. I am afraid that the oil companies did so with scant regard for the proprietors and to the stability of the industry in the State over the last 20 years. The oil companies have been making a maximum profit in Tasmania. The oil companies have introduced the new scheme under the pretence of the three factors I have mentioned. It is a most unsavoury practice. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  will agree with me on this. The oil companies came into the retail trade and started self service pumps in certain regulated service stations. The oil companies said that this was to reduce the price of petrol. Unfortunately it was not to do that. It was to get control of the market, the wholesale market and the retail market. 
I know that businessmen go into this business with their eyes wide open. I know that they are lessees of the oil companies. They are also very vulnerable. They need protection. I have been saying to my Government, and to governments before incidentally- they are all to blame- that they have allowed the oil companies to take control. We can see what is happening at the moment.  Mr Wran  is angry about the oil companies in New South Wales. He said that the price of petrol was going up and up. Three years ago the people of New South Wales were paying about 5c a hire more than they were paying in Victoria. They were unaware of the discounting that was occurring all over Australia. Do not let the Labor Government tell me anything about the oil industry. 
-ACTU-Solo was virtually a parasite on the larger oil companies. 
-I can say it. 
-I am sorry. I get back to the important point. I clear my conscience once and for all. I acted in good faith. I said that the people of Tasmania were paying far too much for petrol. The oil companies have answered my call. They have come in firstly with the idea of rationalisation; secondly, to pursue volume sales; and thirdly, to enter the retail market. Unfortunately this is occurring at the expense of good, honest and decent vulnerable businessmen who have been forced up against the wall because of the lack of protection. I know that my Government is looking seriously at the problem. I know that it will introduce legislation. I hope that in the long term it will protect these poor vulnerable people against the monsters of the oil companies. 
-by leaveFirstly, I congratulate the  Chairman  of the Select Committee on Tourism, the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  the  Deputy Chairman,  the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart),  and all the other members of the Committee on the work they put into this excellent report and thank them for tempering my somewhat enthusiastic parochialism. I think that one has to be very constructive and to think of the general scene throughout Australia, particularly in relation to the tourist industry. A couple of the remarks of the honourable member for Bowman were, I think, most significant. He said that we should be acutely aware of the problems of the tourist industry. There are many problems. He also mentioned that 263,000 people are employed in the industry. 
I was very impressed with the remarks of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  particularly in relation to Tasmania. I think that there was a general awareness by members of the Committee that, because of Tasmania's isolation, its peculiar problems and the fact that industries there are finding it very difficult to survive, we have to look for something else; and the tourist industry is the answer. Tasmania is a beautiful island. It has everything going for it. The fact that some 400,000 people visit Tasmania in a year indicates that it has tremendous potential. 
-I agree; it should be more. I think the matter was summed up beautifully by the  Chairman  of the Committee and by the honourable member for Robertson. I refer now to the two significant recommendations of the Committee in relation to Tasmania. The honourable member for Robertson said that there should be an international airport in Hobart. I think that the recommendation is for an airport of international standard in Tasmania. Therefore, I say to the people of Tasmania, if they are going to argue about whether we should have a casino in the north, that they had better make up their minds very quickly. There is a casino in the south which generates a tremendous amount of side benefits to the people of Tasmania. People visit there and are able to spend their money there. So the people in the north had better make up their minds whether they want a casino and whether they are going to get into the tourist industry and cop the dollars. That is the important thing. 
-My friend the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, who is at the table, mentioned the north-west coast. Of course, that is in the north. That is a beautiful place. So I say to the Minister: Let us get into it and make certain that we attract people to Tasmania before others jump in'. 
The other recommendation in relation to Tasmania is that it should be recognised as a tourist island. I think that is most important. I congratulate all the members of the Committee on being so vocal on the fact that Tasmania's problems should be recognised. I only hope that the recommendations of the Committee will come into force; that the Minister will take notice of and implement the important recommendations which will assist the tourist industry of Australia. I mention another couple of points very briefly. I believe that we should promote Australia. We should keep the dollars in Australia. We should see some of the places in Australia and not go overseas. Therefore, I commend the recommendation that the Australian Tourist Commission look to domestic promotion. Of course, we have to look to overseas promotion, but let us get stuck into Australia. Let us keep the dollars in Australia and make certain that people see Australia. I have not seen many places in Australia. I would like to see some of the places that were mentioned before the Committee. I am just one. There are others just like me. 
I would Uke to talk about domestic air fares. They are far too dear. We should fight and make absolutely certain that they are reduced to enable people in remote areas to visit other parts of Australia. It is dashed near as dear to travel to Western Australia as it is to go to the United Kingdom; and that is ridiculous. So we need to take that on board. I would like to commend the members of the staff too. I think that they did an excellent job and they backed up the Committee. Once again, I offer congratulations to all members of the Committee. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs who recently announced initiatives that are of vital concern to the petroleum industry. When will a decision be made on these initiatives? If implemented, would they allow for fair, healthy competition in the market place as well as provide adequate protection for the small business sector? 
-I agree. Will the initiatives further help in ensuring a fair and just price for petroleum products for all Australians, whether in the country or in the city? 
-I am somewhat surprised at the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I always thought that he was a quite decent fellow, but tonight he has indicated exactly what he is- a trendy socialist with airy-fairy ideas who all of a sudden is ready to condemn the Tasmanians and to say some quite alarming things. I think that his behaviour tonight has a taint of extreme politics about it. Previously the skeleton member, who has left the chamber now, started in on the Tasmanians. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has been appointed by the Australian Labor Party to represent it in Tasmania; so of course he would come into this House tonight and try to discredit the Tasmanians. He thinks that in the eyes of the people in Tasmania he will succeed in what he is trying to do; but he failed dismally tonight. 
I am disappointed that the honourable member for Adelaide should have entered on that same cart and tried to do exactly the same thing, namely, to discredit the good Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  who has worked so hard for this legislation, nicely and quietly behind the scenes, trying to do the right thing for Tasmania. All of a sudden the honourable member for Adelaide has sought to discredit him tonight. It will not go over at all. I think that the people in Tasmania will listen to what has been said tonight and will realise that the Opposition has just used the debate on this legislation to try to get a bit of cheap political gain. A point was made about the famous Tasmanian Labor Government. All of a sudden we heard from both speakers from the other side of the House praise for the Tasmanian Labor Government- what a good Government it is, et cetera, et cetera. We were told that we on this side of the House who are from Tasmania never shower any praise on the Tasmanian Labor Government. What does it do to us when we go back to Tasmania? At every opportunity it runs us down. It never gives us one ounce of praise. So why should we come into this House and praise it? 
I can understand the feelings of the honourable members from Western Australia and other honourable members. They are not against Tasmania; they are against the principle of assisting a mine there when mines in Western Australia are suffering. We can understand that. But as rational members of the Liberal Party of Australia we can talk about the issue. Of course, we can disagree. But when we come into this House we are united. Those honourable members realise that in the best interests of Tasmania it is vital to keep this mine going, so they support the measure. But they can have their views on what they think should occur. They have expressed them already tonight. I admire the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  for putting up a solid argument on a matter of principle. We do not disagree with his argument. But I think that he can understand the situation. All the honourable members from Tasmania have said before that Queenstown and Mount Lyell are unique. That area has disabilities that are foreign to other places in Australia. It needs sympathetic and different attention. That is why the Federal Government is assisting the mining company at Mount Lyell in order to keep the town of Queenstown going, to keep employment opportunities going, et cetera. 
I am pleased to see that the skeleton member has come back to the table. It gives me a nice opportunity to refute what he said about pantomime antics in Tasmania. I think that he is reaching a Jekyll and Hyde situation. He is trying to be Hyde here and trying to create a Jekyll image in Tasmania. It is just not going over at all; it is like water off a duck's back. Honourable members opposite can say what they like about the Tasmanians, but the five squeakers from the Australian Labor Party who previously represented Tasmania never said a word about Tasmania. Between 1972 and 1975 we in Tasmania suffered as a result. For that reason those former Tasmanian members lost their seats in 1975. They lost because they did not say anything about Tasmania. We on this side do not rat on our own members. We say what we think and will continue to do so. The Tasmanians do not think that we are rats; they admire us because we stand up for Tasmania. They do not say that we have ratted on our members, and we will be elected again because we are standing up for Tasmania. 
The people at Queenstown who are listening tonight will know that we have fought hard for their interests, and under great difficulty at times. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, because he is a Minister, has been unable to defend what he realises is in the best interests of the people of Queenstown, but he has won through by adopting a nice calm attitude- quite different from me, but that is good- and he will be admired for that in his electorate. 
I would like now to talk a little about Queenstown, having got those few things off my plate. Nevertheless, they needed to be said tonight because it is obvious that the Opposition has not come in here to debate Queenstown at all. It has come in here, firstly, to try to put the sword between the Western Australian and Tasmanian members by saying that the Western Australians are against the Tasmanians and, secondly, to say that the Tasmanian members said one thing here and then went back to Tasmania and said something different. That is quite untrue. I do not have any good friends on the Hobart  Mercury,  nor has the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman);  and I do not have any good friends in the Australian Broadcasting Commission. What rot members opposite talk. They get just as much publicity as we get. In fact, the honourable member for Blaxland recently received far more publicity than I have received in the last six months. He is a protege of Jack Lang. There was published a lovely photograph of him taken about 10 years ago. So honourable members opposite should not try to start that caper. They get far more publicity than I get. What they are saying is absolute rot. I do not think I have any good friends in those circles in Hobart. They treat me as a normal politician and give me a fair go, and that is all I want. 
I will now talk a little about Queenstown, some of the social problems there and some of the reasons why the Federal Government has come in and assisted. I hope that the honourable member for Moore, the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  will understand that we in Tasmania think that Queenstown is unique, that it is different and that it should be supported. It is a very old mine. 
-No, they are not but they are listening. Many people have questioned why the Tasmanian members have fought so hard for this legislation. I do not think that such people realise the severe social implications if the mine were to close. There has been very little said about Queenstown and Tasmania tonight. It has all been political argument, tainted by members of the Opposition trying to run other people down, so I will get straight to the point and talk about Queenstown and the reason why this legislation is so important. 
Tasmania's isolation from the mainland creates many problems and in the case of Queenstown the problems are compounded by its isolation within Tasmania. Queenstown has a population of approximately 4,200 people and is situated in the west coast region of Tasmania in extremely rugged mountainous terrain. It is approximately 158 miles from Hobart in the south and Launceston in the north and 1 18 miles from Burnie in the north-west. This means that it is the furthest town from any major supply centre. It has a rainfall of approximately 100 inches per year. The supply of essential goods over mountainous roads creates high freight costs. Despite these disadvantages Queenstown has consistently maintained a stable population, with third and fourth generations of families still working for the company. That is significant and important. The Queenstown community is almost wholly dependent on the Mount Lyell mine for its livelihood. Apart from the 65 per cent of the population directly employed by the mining company, the retail trade and community services in Queenstown are all dependent on expenditure by the company and its work force. 
There are no alternatives for Queenstown. Tourism is limited because people only nightstop in Queenstown on their way around the State. To encourage tourists to stay longer would necessitate major investments to the tune of many millions of dollars to provide facilities. So, for Queenstown and its 4,500 people there is no alternative to the Mount Lyell mine. We in the Liberal and National Country parties must get our priorities right and realise that when there are human problems at hand we must look at them sympathetically and judge them on their merits. My party is not moving away from that principle on this occasion. It is saying that there are two issues at stake- the human issue and the point of principle that if we give assistance to one we should give it to others. I hope that honourable members will support the argument that Queenstown is unique and different and needs to be kept going. There are 400,000 people in Tasmania. 
-I frightened them all out. Of course I would frighten them all out because they realise that what I am saying is sincere. 
There is one coming back now. 
-Certainly. I hope that all honourable members on my side will support this legislation. The Opposition has indicated that it is politic for it to do so. I hope also that everybody will understand that we, as Tasmanians, hope and pray that Queenstown will continue in a way that will create employment opportunities not only for the people who are now employed there but also for their families and for other people who may come to the town in the future. 
-Last night a senator made a statement in the other House that I was not going to introduce the Bill. That was an untruth and he knew it. Today, quite cynically a matter of urgency was raised in the other House. To my dismay, the Opposition decided to give notice of a motion similar to the Bill that it knew I was genuinely trying to introduce. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

-I only wish that pensioners of Australian could hear tonight just exactly what you fellows are like. You continually say: Come over and vote with us'. But you never come over here and vote with us. That is quite obvious and well known. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

-I do not need a go from them. I can answer them quite clearly, because I am going to tell the truth and that will hurt the Opposition. The Opposition knows that I am genuine about it and that I tried. I had every intention of introducing that Bill tomorrow, Thursday. Members of the Opposition are probably right. I have hurt my colleagues and for that I am very sorry, particularly after hearing the cynical remarks today. For example, an Opposition senator introduced this matter into the Senate. The first thing he did was to start to run down Bruce Goodluck. He thought that that was the best attack. He said that I did this, I did that and so on. All of a sudden there was a complete realisation that you were not interested in the pensioners but you were interested only in destroying Bruce Goodluck. You wanted his blood. You will get his blood tonight. I will vote with you and I hope that you will be very satisfied that you have got me over there, away from my colleagues. 
I know that I have made mistakes and my colleagues know that. I know that sometimes I am impetuous and I jump into certain arenas which I probably should not do. But I always try to tell the truth, not like you fellows. You have used a decent- 
-I do not need to dry my eyes. That is very easy to answer and a very stupid remark. 
-I concede to the honourable gentlemen because I have a fair bit of respect for him. I will try to address the gentlemen opposite in the correct way. I am sorry for not having done so. What honourable members opposite tried to do today was to push me into the ground, but I think their action will rebound on them. I think that people will start to realise the situation. I have got the Bill in front of me and I will tear it up tonight. 
-I will tear it up and throw it on the floor because it is worthless now. The Opposition has tried to outsmart me and I think that it has outsmarted itself because we will get the half-yearly indexation. It might take a while but we will get it. I know that my colleagues will support it. I have started to realise that being the Prime Minister of this country is a difficult job. 
It is not my intention to inflame the House. I got up to put my point of view sincerely - 
You have had your turn today. The Opposition had its turn in the Senate and here tonight. The Opposition has made some very disrespectful remarks about me. I can take that. I will give a little bit more before I finish. I think the Opposition has outplayed its hand today. It tried to take this matter out of my hands. It thought that it would be smart and outsmart me and outsmart my colleagues. But I think it will rebound because I think that the pensioners - 
You made a statement a little while ago that 200 pensioners said: 'I hope you support Bruce Goodluck', but you tried to crucify Bruce Goodluck today. The Opposition tried to ruin me; it tried to press me into the ground. It did it in the Senate and it decided to do it here tonight. But it has rebounded. It will not go over in Tasmania. I can tell the Opposition that now. The pensioners in Tasmania will understand that I have been genuine. I have been under some attack from my colleagues, but I forgive them and I will forget about that because we are going to work towards the common goal. Of course, all government make mistakes, and I am afraid that my Government made a mistake. I have made that point several times. The Opposition has used the pensioners - 
-Probably. I will use the words in a simple way to try to overcome the problem for the Opposition. The Opposition has used the pensioners to try to ruin me and a few of my colleagues, but it has rebounded. Tonight I hope that my colleagues will remember that we have to fight to try to persuade the Government, Cabinet and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to change their decision. We have to change the decision ourselves. We should not be subjected to the political ridicule to which we have been subjected tonight. I should not be subjected to what I have been subjected to in the last three or four weeks. I probably deserve it, but it should now be forgotten. We have to get on with the job and hopefully we can overcome the problems faced by pensioners. 
I should like to indicate that my colleague the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  has stuck by me rigidly. He probably knows that I have made a few cardinal errors along the way. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns)  also has stuck by me. Other honourable members possibly would have stood by me, but they probably disagreed with my strategy. For that, I am very sorry. Tonight, we have not debated the pensioner issue. We have not debated the pensioner of Australia. This has just been a political exercise, as were the debates on the funeral benefits and apples. The senator to whom I referred earlier said tonight that I had backed down on certain things. I have never backed down. The Opposition has used me because it knows damn well that I am sincere. It has used me as a political cannon ball to suit its own aspirations, to try to gain a seat in Tamania. It wants to try to get its own member into the electorate of Franklin. I challenge  Senator Wriedt.  He said that I should stand as an Independent. He has been elected by his party. I challenge him to stand for the seat of Franklin in the House of Representatives. Take that challenge to him and see how he goes. He would not have the- I will not use the word I was going to use. That is  Senator Wriedt  for you. I will not use the word I was going to use. 
When has the honourable member for Melbourne ever voted against his party? In the years 1972 to 1975 when the Whitlam Government made some very bad decisions, did any of you fellows cross the floor and vote with the Opposition? No. You used your precious little Caucus to preserve yourselves because you have not got the fortitude to come out into the open and make decisions for yourselves. It would be easy for us to be governed by a caucus, but we are not. That is the reason we joined the Liberal Party. We have the opportunity to stand up here in this House of Representatives and speak our minds, as I am doing tonight. Do not honourable members on my side of the House agree with me? That is the reason we joined the Liberal Party. The Opposition is governed by its Caucus. Of course, I have been ruined tonight. There is the stupid looking BUI. Take the Bill. It means nothing now because the Opposition has ruined it politically. Members of the Opposition are the ones who have let down the pensioners tonight- not me and not my colleagues. We will get there. I hope that my colleagues will fight on and that we will get the halfyearly indexation of pensions which we started out to get. 
The Minister for National Development no doubt is aware that motor vehicles will run efficiently and economically on liquefied petroleum gas. The Minister will recall that two years ago I, along with many others, suggested that as a fuel saving measure and also in order to set an example a percentage of all Commonwealth cars should be converted to LPG. In view of anticipated oil shortages, which are being further aggravated by world events, will the Minister give urgent consideration to initiating discussions with car manufacturers with the definite aim of having those manufacturers offer in the national interest as an option a dual system motor vehicle power-driven by LPG and power-driven by petrol? 
-Each day I am saddened and I know that many other members of this House are saddened by the tragic loss of life as a result of motor cycle accidents. It is pleasing to see the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  in the chamber tonight. He is a member of the Standing Committee on Road Safety, as I am. I know that he is concerned that every day on Australian roads one motor cyclist is killed. 
-I do not know whether he rides a motor cycle but he is a pretty capable fellow in that regard. Most of the tragedies that occur involve young people under the age of 21. Each day they occur but we do not seem to be able to do very much about them. Many reports are furnished and many reasons are given as to why these accidents continue to occur. On average each year 3650 people die on the roads in Australia. Ten per cent of those deaths occur as a result of motor cycle accidents. That represents about 4.4 per cent of the total registrations. This matter is extremely serious, sad and tragic. 
There is a lack of uniformity among the States about requiring young people to be trained before they ride motor cycles. A 250cc motor cycle is a lethal weapon. It can go just as fast as a 350cc motor cycle. We come forward with reports and refer them to State authorities. They may instigate rules and laws to overcome this tragic problem. Nevertheless every day we pick up a newspaper and read that a young person under the age of 2 1 has been killed as a result of a motor cycle accident. 
-It is not always their fault but, unfortunately, it occurs. We have to do something about it. I am afraid that it is getting worse each day. With the high cost of fuel and the number of motor cycles on the road it is becoming more and more of a problem. 
I now refer to another matter. I am rather surprised at the actions of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  I do not know what he is trying to achieve. Somebody told me that he is a tough Labor politician. I am starting to wonder about that now. The other night the House debated the issue of the indexation of pensions. Whilst I was speaking in the House the honourable member for Prospect appeared on the program  Nationwide  and tipped the bucket on me. I am prepared to debate the pensioner issue with the honourable member for Prospect on any television program at any given time. 
-I could not leave the House the other night to debate the issue on television with the supposedly tough Labor politician, but I throw down the gauntlet. I hope somebody will accept it and give me the opportunity to talk to a tough Labor politician who has the audacity to ask me continually why I did not cross the floor in October. The honourable member for Prospect has not crossed the floor in his life. He would not have the fortitude to do it. He should not try to associate me with the Communist Party. I am a Catholic. I am proud of it. I am against people who are anti-religion, against the freedom of the church and freedom of worship. Honourable members opposite should not try to associate that view with my party. I can refute it easily. It is very simple when one tells the truth. The tough Labor politician should be very careful. If you want to debate on television the matter of pensions you should give me the opportunity to do so with you. You should not try to tip the bucket when I am trying to defend in the House an issue that you, because of your stupid, ill-advised way of trying to - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Franklin is required to address the Chair, not other honourable members. I request him to observe parliamentary decorum. 
-I have said everything I want to say on that point. I also mention that I am very pleased that a joint report from the Australian Government and the Tasmanian Government has recommended today the commencement of a second Hobart bridge. The Labor Party must support that. Its Acting Prime Minister at the time,  Dr Cairns,  came to Tasmania after the disaster that had occurred and said that there would be a second bridge. The present Federal Government has honoured that commitment. It will inject $28.5m into the electorate of Franklin. That will be tremendous. Because of the danger of the bridge that is there at the moment, the second bridge will be of great benefit. 
-It will not be disgraceful. On 5 January 1970 - 
-The word 'profit' seems to be a very dirty word today. Everybody seems to decry it. Unfortunately we need profit and profitable organisations to provide employment opportunities and to greatly improve the present Australian economy. I support the measure introduced by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  I know that he has given it very careful thought. There are flaws in it, admittedly, but I think it would be far better for me to outline briefly and concisely what the Bill will do. I believe that the people of Australia will then make up their minds exactly what the Minister is trying to achieve. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal was established by the Labor Government in 1973. 1 can understand the reasons and the motives behind that action. In November 1976 the LiberalNational Country Party Government introduced amendments to the Act designed substantially to reduce the number of companies which must notify the Tribunal of their price increases. The obligation to notify price increases now applies only to companies with annual turnovers of $30m or more as against the previous figure of $20m. In addition, a company that is a subsidiary of another company is no longer required to notify the Tribunal of price increases unless it has an annual turnover of $5m or more. A number of amendments were also introduced relating to the notification requirements and to the granting of exemptions. When exercising its discretion regarding exemptions from the notification of price increases the Tribunal was instructed to consider the following: Firstly, whether the company was in a position substantially to control the market for goods and services supplied by the company and, secondly, whether the prices charged by the company during a substantial period had been fair and reasonable. When a company does not implement an approved price increase within 90 days it must notify the Tribunal should it wish to apply the increase at a later time. Previously the time limit was 30 days. The Tribunal was also instructed in these amendments to have due regard to the need for the company to achieve a level of profitability that is sufficient to enable the company to maintain an adequate level of investment and employment. 
The Prices Justification Amendment Bill of 1979 was presented to the House on 1 March 1979. The general effect of the amendments introduced will be that the PJT's role will be changed from one of checking notified prices to conducting industry inquiries as directed by the Minister. I agree with that. The 1976 amendments will also be largely superseded by the 1979 amendments. The changes proposed include the following: Firstly, companies no longer will have to notify price increases; secondly, companies will be able to claim confidentiality in respect of documents and submissions containing secret formula or processes; thirdly, companies will be able to request that the Tribunal not disclose information if a company considers that the disclosure of that information would damage its competitive position unless the Tribunal, in the public interest, sees fit to release the information; fourthly, the Act's price freeze provisions are being amended to give the PJT discretion to allow an interim price increase to a company under inquiry; fifthly, the Minister will have the power to set time limits by which the PJT must complete inquiries initiated by the Minister; and, sixthly, the Tribunal will have the power to undertake, as directed by the Minister, inquiries into matters other than whether the prices under inquiry are justified. Most importantly, the Tribunal no longer will be able to initiate inquiries. In future, the PJT will have to hold a pre-inquiry conference with relevant parties before it approaches the Government for approval to undertake a public inquiry. 
-Public inquiries are costly and sometimes exhaustive. By the time the inquiry is completed the market and the competitors have changed so dramatically that the PJT findings are no longer relevant to the situation which pertained previously. It is an absolute waste of money. One honourable member interjected and said: 'Shame'. 
Broadly speaking the Bill seeks to modify the operations of the PJT by reducing the emphasis on price notification and by broadening its inquiry function. It replaces the present price notification requirements, which are based upon the size of the company, with selective notification of price increases for a limited period by companies following public inquiries by the PJT. The PJT will concentrate its resources in the area of price surveillance to make absolutely certain that the pricing of goods and services is continually under surveillance. It also will make certain that public inquiries are carried out when necessary and when the Minister feels that they are necessary. Surely that is absolutely imperative and important. The Tribunal will be equipped to carry out an on-going surveillance role- not just today, but tomorrow as well- and make certain that price surveillance in the future continues. 
The Tribunal will utilise the regular channels of information such as representations from consumers. It is important that the consumers have a say because they are the ones who are purchasing goods and services. It is not much use having an inquiry today and six months later finding that, because of changed circumstances and different market situations, a whole new ball game applies. The consumers sometimes realise how the prices of goods and services fluctuate so dramatically. It is important that their information be used and that the PJT draws on that bank of information, and also on the pricing behaviour of companies, which should be revealed to the PJT at every given opportunity. The surveillance will enable the PJT at any time to recommend a public inquiry into a company or group of companies. Public inquiries will underpin the Tribunal's surveillance role and highlight areas needing further inquiry. The Tribunal at present is limited in the course of its inquiries in determining whether the prices charged or proposed to be charged by companies are justified. This function will remain. The Bill will allow the PJT to conduct public inquiries which do not involve price justification. These inquiries will consider matters such as the structure of prices within industries and how they are established. The decision about whether to proceed to a public inquiry will be subject to approval by the Minister in respect of inquiries initiated by the PJT. The capacity which exists for the Minister to refer for public inquiry matters arising from wage increases outside wage indexation guidelines and allegations of excessive prices will be maintained. However, it will be open for the Minister to confine a reference to the industries to be covered by an inquiry, in which case it will be for the Tribunal to select the companies to be taken to the inquiry. 
The Bill amends the price freeze provisions of the Act to provide the Tribunal with a discretion to allow an interim price increase to a company under inquiry. I have mentioned that point previously. It is significant and most important. It is not my intention to dwell too long on the functions of the PJT. Of course it is absolutely necessary that we have an efficient PJT to do the surveillance work so as to make absolutely certain that the consumers of Australia are paying a fair and just price for their commodities. It is also extremely important that we have a Minister who will do his own surveillance work, who will watch carefully, and who will make absolutely certain that the PJT is not just another waste of public moneys but an organisation which is going to be useful and an organisation which is going to be beneficial to the consumers of Australia. It can be argued at times that the PJT, because of its complete lack of resources, is unable to cope with some of the massive companies that we have in Australia which, sometimes to the detriment of many Australians, are able to vary their price in a degree which is very easy to cover up and can substantiate in certain areas why they should be charging certain prices. I know that at this very time the Minister has initiated, through the PJT, an inquiry into the oil industry. I for one and many others have said for many years that the oil industry, because of its complexity and because of the difficulty of determining its marketing aspects, needs surveillance and needs to be looked into very closely and carefully. I know that the Minister has heeded that advice, not just from me but from many others. 
Some of the members of the Opposition have been quite hypocritical tonight in talking about controlling prices and making absolutely certain that the consumers of Australia are well guarded and well cared for. They did not say very much during the period when a certain oil company was supplying ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd with petrol far below the wholesale price. They did not say a word about that. But that was to the detriment of many Australians. A few people in the very heavily volumed areas benefited as a result of that but they benefited to the detriment of many country people. I can see one of my friends smiling in the corner. He knows exactly what I am driving at. The PJT fixed a maximum wholesale price but nobody knew the minimum wholesale price. The oil companies were able to move up and down. They charged one price to this one and another price to that one. They charged ACTU-Solo to the detriment of many thousands of Australians. So when honourable members talk to me about the PJT they should not try to tell me that it has been to the benefit of all Australians. What the Minister is trying to do tonight with his amendments to the PJT is to give all Australians a fair access to a commodity- I have used the example of petrol- in a fair and just way. Putting aside the fact that petrol is going to be a precious commodity and the talk of conservation, the PJT, under the careful scrutiny of the Minister, will look into the oil industry and make absolutely certain that the oil company giants will be called to justice for the first time and that the motorists and the consumers of petrol in Australia will be given a fair and just go. 
-Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware of the bitter controversy that has arisen in Tasmania as a result of the action of the Tasmanian Government in increasing rents for some State Housing Department tenants, particularly the elderly and people in low income areas? Does the Minister realise that my electorate has the highest number of State Housing Department tenants in Tasmania? I want to know who is responsible for this rental increase. Is it the fault of the State Labor Government or of the Federal Government? Will the Minister please tell me, as many other Tasmanians are keen to know the answer? 
I am pleased to enter this debate. There is to be a conscience vote. Ever since I became a member of Parliament I have been wondering what a conscience vote is. Tonight I may have the opportunity to prove what a conscience vote is. Irrespective of the arguments that have been promoted, this motion is about abortion. I speak according to my conscience and I am going to vote accordingly. Not one person in this wide world will change that vote. For the first time in six years the House of Representive is to vote on the question of public funding for abortion. The motion before the House states in part: 
That this House requests the Government to introduce legislation which will provide that- 
medical benefits shall not be provided by the Commonwealth for the termination of pregnancy unless the termination was performed to protect life of the mother from a physical pathological condition and that the life could be protected in no other way .... 
I support that motion. Who reasonably can oppose which seeks to uphold the right to life of an unborn child while safeguarding the mother's equal right to survive? 
Since 1974 some 250,000 unborn babies have been aborted in Australia since private abortion clinics have been operating in Melbourne and Sydney. An estimated 60,000 innocent and defenceless unborn children are terminated each year. They are children that Australia cannot afford to lose. One in four is aborted. I believe that they should have the chance to live. Australia is faced with a low population growth for the next 20 years. In the five years between 1971 and 1976 our natural population growth suffered a 30 per cent drop. What has happened to this country? We have a higher proportion of abortions to births than any other country. If taxpayers are forced to continue to subsidise the transfer of thousands of the present generation into the incinerator the present trend towards zero population growth will be accelerated. We will be faced with a situation whereby an increasing number of older people will need to be supported by a dwindling number of working aged people. 
We live in a democracy in which the Government provides protection for the weak, the sick, the handicapped and the elderly. It should not be called upon to provide funds to kill the smallest and weakest of all human beings, the most defenceless members of our society. Last year alone over $5m of taxpayers money was paid out for abortions. The abortion industry flourishes secure in the knowledge that the Government will pay. It is essential that we educate people about contraception and family planning. To cut off the funds for this sick trade in human life must be the first step towards affording protection for our unborn children. We must accept that every abortion kills a baby and that legislation should be available to give the baby legal protection before birth. A first step would be the elimination of medical benefits for anti-life procedures. The money saved could go to pregnancy support services which provide counselling and help mothers suffering psychological or physical problems during pregnancy. 
I have received many letters from single mothers. They are sincere letters that I would like to table in this House, but because of their confidentiality I cannot do so. These mothers have told me exactly how they feel now that they have children of their own after they did not accept the advice to have their children aborted. I was reared by a single parent. I am just one person who had the opportunity to survive and I am here in this House trying to defend that right for the 60,000 children who are aborted each year. Surely they should have the right to life. They should have the right to be citizens of Australia and help it become a better nation. It is a sick nation at the moment when one in four children is being aborted. 
The arguments defending abortion payments for the poor are cynical and socially completely unacceptable. Poverty will not be overcome by eliminating the poor or the children of the poor. Killing is no solution to human problems. This Parliament should stand firm in the defence of human life. The money now used to subsidise abortions should be diverted to pregnancy support services. Abortion funding has no place on the schedule of medical benefits. Many women argue this way: Whilst they are involved, why should men make decisions involving the lives of many women in this private and sensitive area? I apologise for the fact that, we have not got more women in this Parliament who probably could assist us in making these difficult and sensitive decisions that are going to affect many thousands of young people. Many members of this Parliament, like me, have been brought up to oppose abortion on demand and to fight it until it is outlawed in this country. I would like to say something to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Last night it called someone a Labor Catholic. I am a Liberal Catholic and I do not care who the ABC tells that to. I make that point and I make it quite strongly. 
The provision of medical benefits for abortion is only serving to endorse and encourage the practice of abortion. There is no conflict with me. It is my right, based on my religious belief, to vote in support of the Lusher motion. I think of all the married couples in Australia who could afford but are unable to adopt babies which would bring them joy and happiness and who would provide them with an opportunity to participate in this wonderful nation and add to the wonderful institution that we call the family. I am afraid the family is being eroded because of many fundamental things occurring in our society. The family is everything. Everybody seems to be thinking of some other alternative to the family, but it never succeeds. Other countries have tried it. Socialist countries have tried it. But the family structure has meaning. It is the best system that anybody could ever produce to be the saviour of this country. There are many families in Australia that could adopt young children and give them the family love that they so richly deserve and need. To the young unmarried mothers who are in this terrible predicament- I feel for them; we all feel for them- I say: 'Be careful. Take your time. Get the best advice. Do not take that initial advice that will affect you, your life and your way of living for the rest of your days'. 
This is a conscience vote. Not one member of this House should be pressured, and I do not think anybody has been pressured. I think one honourable member said today that he talked to various groups. Surely that is what the parliamentary system is all about- to hear points of view. Nobody has pressured me- not one person. I have received letters and I have talked to certain people. I have talked to members of the Right to Life organisation. It is a fine, wonderful organisation. Things have been said about the Right to Life organisation that are completely untrue. It is talking about the right of the unborn child to live and be part of this society. I have listened to people who have talked in favour of the other side of the argument. They have their point of view. We have taken that into consideration. But tonight there is to be a conscience vote. The only thing I am wild about is that a political commentator telephoned me today and said that 58 per cent of the people in my electorate say that I should not support the Lusher motion. He indicated that they had said that it would be politically unwise for me to support it and that I should change my decision. This is a conscience vote. If honourable members will vote according to their conscience they will disregard that type of thing. Do honourable members agree with that? 
I am conscious of the filth of rape, incest and all the other atrocities committed against young women but that does not outweigh the right to live, the right to be born and take a chance in this complicated world. I have five lovely daughters and I am conscious all the time of the danger to them. I feel it all the time. It could happen to them; it could happen to anyone. I take that into consideration and I outweigh it with the points that I hope I have made. Each day the world becomes more selfish. We have the most selfish country in the world. We have the highest number of elderly people in nursing homes. Many people today cannot wait to get rid of them. They do not want children; they would rather have a dog and a cat because it is easier to look after them. They have simply to open a can of meat. They are rotten selfish and it is about time we started to talk more about the fundamental things that are eroding life in this country, decaying it and making it not a very good place in which to live. 
-The Minister for National Development will be aware that the price of petrol throughout Australia has varied consideraby from State to State for many years, sometimes to the detriment of many motorists in country areas, particularly in Tasmania. Is it a fact that there is no conspiracy between the oil companies and the Federal Government in relation to the price of petrol and the further availability of petrol and that some of the statements attributed to the 
Opposition are nothing more than mischievous - 
-In the last three years I have found that there is a lamentable lack of knowledge about the oil industry and today I heard many things said by the Opposition in relation to the discounting of petrol that were completely removed from the facts. I return to the year 1975 when the report of the Collins Royal Commission on Petroleum was handed down. That Commission cost about $1.5m and certain recommendations were made in its report. Unfortunately, since that time the oil industry, like any other industry, has changed. I made a speech on this subject when I first came into this House in 1976. 1 said that there was a quite incredible variation in the price of petrol from one capital city to another and that most Australian motorists and most State governments were completely unaware of it. I think that if that speech were turned up it would surprise many members of this House. 
At that time I said that Melbourne was the only city to benefit from the discounting of petrol. Discounting occurred because the oil companies were able to sell petrol to jobbers- by 'jobbers' I mean discounters- at a price far cheaper than they could sell it to their normal dealers. That discount price was far below the price at which petrol was being sold to dealers in every other capital city and, of course, in every country area in Australia. There was a theory that the oil companies could do this under the allocation system. By that I mean that local crude oil, being far cheaper than imported crude oil, was sold on an allocation basis and the oil companies found it necessary and, of course, desirable to sell it as quickly as possible to the people in the densely populated areas. So we had the situation where the price of petrol in Melbourne was far lower than the price of petrol in every other capital city and certainly far lower than it was in any country area in Australia. This situation existed for many years. 
Today shortages are occurring and there is a need for exploration. Of course, I agree with the views of the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and the Government; I do not agree with oil companies. I believe that for many years the companies have sapped and used the motorists of Australia in a way that would be difficult to describe without being libellous. I received a telegram from Ampol at one time which said:  'Mr Goodluck,  are you inferring that what we are doing is illegal? The contents of your speech have been referred to our legal advisers'. I wrote back and said, 'No, not illegal, just immoral and the contents of your telegram have been sent to my legal advisers'. I have heard nothing about it since. 
The point is that the oil companies had been doing that for so many years but only some Australian motorists were benefitting. Other Australian motorists were subsidising them. Now that the Minister, or the Government, has brought the price of oil up to world parity we have the one price for petrol and the oil companies in their wisdom realise that there is no longer an allocation system. They have to sell petrol at a competitive price and they realise that today. Unfortunately we are starting to get ourselves into a bind whereby the people who have benefitted by discounting for so many years, particularly those in Melbourne, are starting to feel the crunch. The people in the country areas of Western Australia are starting to realise that their petrol prices are going to remain relatively stable, and that is the important thing. 
-Hopefully they will be paying less or round about the same price. That is the reason for my disagreeing most vehemently with the fuel price equalisation plannot with my Government, but with the fact that people in country areas were going to pay a cent per litre above the relevant city prices. 
-May I commend the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  on his thoughtful and well prepared speech - 
Yes, it was very knowledgeable and one which I think will be of great advantage to Tasmanians and also to the people who are going to make decisions in the future in this particular area. The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the execution of an agreement between the Commonwealth and Tasmania for a program of native forestry. The program will assist in ensuring the supply of raw material to future forest production and industries. I believe it will contribute to the long term industrial development of Tasmania as well as enhance the environment. 
The implementation of the program will assist also in alleviating the current unemployment situation in that State. In 1976 the then Premier of Tasmania sought Commonwealth assistance to combat unemployment in Tasmania. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  answered the call and commissioned  Sir Bede  Callaghan, CBE. to inquire into the structure of industry and the employment situation in Tasmania.  Sir Bede's  report was tabled in Parliament in September 1977. Thus was initiated the 10-point plan. This is one of the points of that plan. The inquiry found that Tasmania had problems not encountered in other States. After considering the report, the Government agreed to adopt a considerate attitude to policy making affecting Tasmania. 

 Sir Bede's report stressed the need for development of stable, efficient industries which provide opportunities for long term growth. The report noted also that forestry and its dependent industries were, and would continue to be, of vital importance to Tasmania's economy. Forestry was seen as a means of providing worthwhile employment opportunities in the short and the long term. 
In a recent report on timber and timber products the Industries Assistance Commission concluded that the forest product industries were genuinely low cost and efficient by Australian standards. The Government has recognised the potential of the fine paper industry in Tasmania to contribute to the economy of that State and of the nation in its recent decisions on the protective requirements of that industry. The Government noted that the industry was efficient, decentralised and had a potential for expansion that would result in both replacement of imports and increased export sales. Against this background, the Government viewed favourably a request from the Tasmanian Government for financial assistance for a program of native forestry development. 
The program approved comprises the establishment of eucalypt plantations on marginal farmland purchased previously by the State, the rehabilitation of forests damaged by fire and the thinning of blackwood regeneration to hasten sawlog production. The Government has offered to the Tasmanian Government loans of up to $136,000, in real terms, for the five-year period which commenced on 1 July 1978, on the basis that expenditure be matched by the State. In recognition of the time taken for forestry projects to yield a return on investment, the terms of the loans provide for a 20-year deferment of repayments. Interest payable at the long-term bond rate is capitalised in this period and repayments of capital and interest at the same rate are made in the subsequent 40 years on a six-monthly basis. The terms are similar to those agreed to by the States and incorporated in the Softwood Forestry Agreements Act 1 978 but allow for a longer deferment and repayment period, thus reflecting the longer term required by the eucalypts to reach maturity. 
I want to speak in the same vein as the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  who spoke constructively. I do not wish today to engage in controversy. I am to be the only  speaker  from the Government side but many speakers from the Opposition side are to follow me. However, it is interesting to note that about 12 months ago  Mr Batt,  the  President  of the Federal Labor Party, spelt out an air of gloom about Tasmania. He said that its prospects were very dim and that opportunities there were limited. He really painted a picture of gloom for that State. Yet, I am pleased to say, there seems now to be a spirit of communication between the Treasurer of Tasmania, who is  President  of the Australian Labor Party, and the Federal Government. There seems to be a spirit of cooperation which indicates that things are not really so gloomy in that State. 
I am pleased to quote from an article which appeared in the Hobart  Mercury  of 23 March, headed '$80m invested in 18 months. Tasmanians should be confident: Batt', as follows: 
With about $80m invested in Tasmanian industry in the past 1 8 months Tasmanians could be confident of the future of the State, the Treasurer,  Mr Batt,  said yesterday. 
He told Parliament he was sick and tired of the constant knocking by some people in the State. 
Let's stop predicting Tasmania is going backwards; there is no need for any citizen to have feelings of gloom, he said. 

 Mr Batt said there were plenty of examples of Tasmanian industry expanding. 
But we seem to be under the impression that because of our population size . . . 
It is about 400,000- we should accept a view of humility, ' he said. 

 Mr Batt said the forestry industry was an example of a Tasmanian industry successful not only on a State level but nationally and internationally. 
About 25 per cent of the total income of the State is from forests and wood-based industries,' he said. 
Woodchips are worth $54m in export earnings while logs and sawn timber bring in $8,300,000 to the State. ' 

 Mr Batt said 59 per cent of sawn timber exports from Australia came from Tasmania. 
As well, 27 per cent of Australian paper exports are from Tasmania and 29 per cent of Australian forest exports, excluding woodchips are from Tasmania,' he said. 
On Wednesday, an American wishing to purchase Tasmanian timber came and saw me, and last year we increased exports to Europe by 12 percent.' 

 Mr Batt said there was a tendency in the community to bemoan difficulties of our smallness, neglect the advantages and be negative about the State's future. 
He said the recent announcement of Stanley Works Pty Ltd . . . 
That is the Titan works- transferring production from Victoria to Tasmania was a good example of how Tasmanian industry was competing successfully on international markets. "They are exporting highly technical products successfully to North America, Northern Europe and South East Asia,'  Mr Batt  said. 
He said there were several reasons for industry locating in Tasmania- cheap land, access to water, accessible Government and stable work force. 
There seems to have been a complete turnaround by  Mr Batt.  I am pleased that he is starting to be constructive about the future of Tasmania. One of the fundamental points from the  Sir Bede  Callaghan report is that the Federal Government is assisting Tasmania's timber industry. I think  Mr Batt  forgot to mention the freight equalisation plan, which is worth $20 m to that State. I believe that we are starting to realise that if the Federal Government and the State Government can work in co-operation there is a chance for Tasmania; that we may be able to get out of the depressing picture of gloom that  Mr Batt  painted some 12 months ago. I raised that matter in this House by way of a question to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to give him an opportunity to answer some of the matters that  Mr Batt  had raised. I believe that  Mr Batt  is now starting to see daylight and realise that, with complete co-operation, we can put Tasmania in a situation in which it can be self-sufficient, in which it will not have a brain drain as a result of our young people going to the mainland for jobs; that we will be able to stimulate the timber and other industries as a result of the . many initiatives that have perhaps come from the  Sir Bede 
Callaghan report. I have in mind the 10 points of which I have already spoken. 
It is important that I should cite  Sir Bede's  comments about the timber industry. He was commissioned by the Prime Minister. Many criticised  Sir Bede  when he came to Tasmania. They asked: 'Why come down here and report back to the Federal Parliament?' However, the initiatives mentioned by  Sir Bede  in respect of the timber, mining and fishing industries are starting to bear fruit. To my mind, one important thing that  Mr Batt  forgot to mention when he spoke so brightly about the future of Tasmania was the fact that the bright future was as a result of initiatives of the Federal Government. However, the facts are before the people of Tasmania, who are beginning to realise that the State is entering a period in which it can improve considerably. Of the forestry industry,  Sir Bede  said: 
A considerable proportion of the State's forestry reserves are privately owned and a detailed inquiry into this is being undertaken by  Mr M.  G. Everett, Q.C. Indeed, some of the submissions made to  Mr Everett  were made available to me for information. 
The Australian Logging Federation made some useful observations about the escalation of operating costs that are reflected in comments I have made elsewhere in this report. 
He said, speaking specifically: 
The Tasmanian Timber Association made proposals and comments relating to specific disabilities the industry bears vis-a-vis other States . , . They include liability to payroll taxation, special road tolls and the out-of-area road haulage permit system. Other more general items of concern include the claim that deterioration in quality and volume of sawlogs available to the industry following a reduction in Crown log quotas (by 20 per cent) and declining private supplies. 
Those factors make it extremely difficult for the State to flourish. These initiatives by the Federal Government will make the timber industry viable again. With the freight equalisation plan and the other nine points that we intend to initiate, I believe that the future of Tasmania is bright. I agree with  Mr Batt  for the first time. I am pleased that he has changed his mind. That was probably due to the influence of some of his Labor Party colleagues who have had a good effect on him. He must realise that by continually knocking this Federal Government he will not gain support for his opposing views. 
I regret that there are not more Tasmanians in the chamber to debate this issue. Unfortunately, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  is in hospital. I send my kindest regards to him. I hope that he gets better quickly. Unfortunately, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  is absent today. For that reason I am afraid that I have to leave it to members of the 
Opposition to follow me in the debate. I hope that their remarks follow in the constructive strain that I have endeavoured to initiate today and that they do not engage in a knocking exercise and start a stupid argument about what they could do for Tasmania and what should be done for Tasmania. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
-The Prime Minister is no doubt aware of the previous tremendous dislocation to the city of Hobart and to the people of Hobart and of the sad loss of life that occurred when the  Lake Illawarra  hit the Tasman Bridge on 5 January 1975. The Prime Minister, of course, is aware that the reconstructed Tasman Bridge is vulnerable to damage from any further ship collision and for this reason will always be a source of worry to the people of Hobart. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. He will recall that I previously brought to his attention a report that a young lady, after endeavouring to use an out of order telephone, was forcibly dragged from the booth and viciously assaulted. I now draw his attention to a case which occurred over the weekend and in which another young lady in a similar situation was viciously assaulted. Will the Minister once again call for a full report? Could research be undertaken into means by which the doors of telephone booths can be locked from the inside? 
-I compliment the previous speakers, particularly the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  on their remarks. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  also made a very thoughtful speech. It is a shame that he had a disagreement with my friend, the honourable member for Denison. He should have realised that the honourable member for Denison has been involved in the railway situation in Tasmania and has, unfortunately, been disappointed with the winding down of the rail system in Tasmania. For that reason, at times he, like me, gets very disappointed, and we sometimes become a little emotional about the fact that we do not have a passenger train service in Tasmania. I agree with the honourable member for Newcastle when he says that it is regrettable that we do not have that network. The honourable member for Newcastle is very famous in Tasmania because he made the statement for which he is always remembered in Tasmania. He said that there are more votes in Newcastle than there are in Tasmania. 
-I beg the honourable member's pardon. That is correct. I am very sorry about that mistake. It was just a very honest slip. 
I am pleased to enter this debate on the National Railway Network (Financial Assistance) Bill. Of course, I support the Government. The Bill provides the legislative framework within which the Commonwealth will fulfil its 1977 election policy commitment. I notice that the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who is at the table, is smiling- I can understand that- at that particular remark. By means of this 
Bill the Commonwealth will fulfil its 1977 election policy commitment to a joint Commonwealth-State program to upgrade State railways which are part of the main line network. Under this Bill the Commonwealth will be empowered to provide up to $70m to the States of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia over the five years from 1978-79 to 1982-83. 1 should make it clear at the outset that the non-metropolitan railways in South Australia and the Tasmanian railway system will not participate in this program, as they are now the direct responsibility of the Commonwealth Government. I should add that, as far as Western Australia is concerned, separate arrangements were agreed to by the Loan Council to cover the $64m program for the State to upgrade the mainline railway. 
Before returning to the provisions of the Bill I would like to make a brief comment on the Government's approach to the program. Studies conducted by the Bureau of Transport Economics in the States showed that the deficiency, capacity and frequency of mainline railways could be improved. It is imperative that they be improved. We are talking about fuel. The honourable member for Newcastle went to great lengths to explain that there are going to be deficiencies in fuel and that we should look at alternatives. Of course, the rail systems of Australia are imperative and important. The honourable member for Mitchell went to great lengths to explain that fact. The railways are significant and very important. It is imperative that rail links be improved to enable people to travel by rail and transport cargo, rather than to use the precious commodity that we use at the momentpetrol. We should look at alternatives. 
-It is regrettable, but the control of the railways has gone now. Unfortunately we do not have that control. 
-The honourable member for Mitchell has raised a very interesting question. I know that the honourable member for Newcastle would be interested. Last weekend there was a severe petrol shortage in Tasmania- a tanker is due today- and people in Hobart just could not buy petrol. As a consequence most of them stayed home and probably did a lot in their gardens, et cetera. The point I make is that Tasmania is an island, it is isolated and there should be alternatives. Unfortunately, without a rail system Tasmania has a problem. The only other way of travelling would be by plane. 
-That is not true. The honourable member for Shortland - 
-He hates Tasmania. 
-I am sorry. I will come back to the Bill. This program represents a recognition of the concern which this Government has for the States. 
-Unfortunately the rail system of Tasmania was wound down over a period. It is regrettable that we do not have that rail system now. I will continue my remarks on the Bill. Several times I have said that we should have an alternative. It is regrettable that we do not. This program represents a recognition of the concern which this Government has to work with the States to ensure that the railways are upgraded in order adequately to respond to the national transportation task. It is a significant task, a task that relies heavily on the persistence of the Federal Government to co-operate with State governments. If we are going to overcome this fuel crisis in the long term, there must be cooperation. Even at this point of time the fuel crisis is putting some of the motorcars, which we thought would never be superseded, off the road. Unfortunately today some people cannot afford to drive a V8. Some six-cylinder motor vehicles, because of the fact that fuel prices have risen so much, are being put off the road. I do not want to enter the argument about bringing the price of petrol up to world parity, but there are going to be shortages. For that reason we need alternatives. By bringing the price of domestic crude to world parity there has been an increase in the price of fuel to such a degree that consumers are unable to pay. They will have to look for alternatives. I have spoken about those alternatives many times. I have said that we should be looking towards the steam car. I believe there is a  Mr Pritchard  in Melbourne who needs assistance. 
We as a government should assist anybody who can come up with ideas, innovations or alternatives. 
I believe that a motor vehicle manufacturer is at the moment thinking about producing a motor car powered by liquefied petroleum gas or petrol. I believe that an engine that can be powered specifically by LPG should be manufactured. I believe it should be an option open to all Australians when they purchase a motor vehicle. 
-The point I am making is that we need a railway system but we must also look for alternatives. 
-I am afraid I missed the point of the honourable member for Newcastle. The answer is that I do not know. Possibly somebody could look into the point that a locomotive could be driven by LPG. I do not know. 
-Yes, and it was a very good point that the honourable member for Newcastle made. When we make a comparison of the number of motor vehicles, and the number of trucks on the road which are using oil and petrol, with trains- the trains are using oil- the trains do not use oil to the degree that vehicles and trucks do. We should look at the alternatives. One is the electrification of the railway line between Sydney and Melbourne. I would support a network of electrified trains. I believe we should be thinking about it and using money to explore that situation. 
-Again that is something about which we should be thinking. As a government we should be looking at the alternatives. We should be talking and working together constructively, not destructively. It is imperative that we look at every alternative. Many times in this House I have spoken about the use of LPG and about the diesel driven motor vehicles which we have. We have to look at every alternative source other than petrol. For that reason I support the Bill and hope we will be able to improve the Australian railway network. 
-No, I do not support the amendment. We must get our priorities correct. Certain things have been said today by the honourable member for Newcastle about the $56m spent on a particular by-way or by-pass. I can understand his being disgruntled about it, but we must realise that motor cars and trucks are using the roads today. Of course money must be spent to keep our roads up to a certain degree of safety. We know that. We also know that if energy is to be conserved we must look at the rail systems and make certain that they are kept up to a certain standard. 
-I do not know. I cannot understand anyone attacking the honourable member for Denison because he really tries in this area- railways. He really does. The honourable member for Denison and I have disagreed on railways. He would like to see tracks laid so that trains can use the new bridge across the Derwent. I have said that we have a wonderful waterway there and we should have ferries. We very rarely disagree on transport generally, but on this occasion we are going to have one heck of a fight when the new bridge is constructed. I tell him now that trains are not going to cross that bridge but ferries are going to cross that beautiful waterway we have in Tasmania. There will be an argument between the honourable member for Denison and myself. 
-I apologise for getting off the track- the rail track. There should be a dual purpose motor vehicle, driven by either LPG or petrol. It is unfortunate that we export most of our LPG to Japan. I really cannot understand that. 
-To get away from the Bill is the last thing I would try to do. I think the honourable member for Newcastle is very unfair. He knows very well what I am trying to do. I am trying to explain that if we are going to have a rail system- the system he would like- we must look for alternatives. People must realise that they have to travel by trains rather than use motor vehicles. I have mentioned that we have to look for the alternatives. I really think the honourable member for Newcastle is being quite unfair to me. Never mind. 
Transportation by train provides an economic, suitable and comfortable way of getting from point A to point B. Fuel can be conserved, and therefore it is imperative- I have used that word many times in my speech- that the rail links between the capital cities of Australia be maintained at a level that will enable people to move comfortably and adequately by train from point A to point B and in a time that will not vary greatly from that of the ordinary motor vehicle. If we can improve the trains, if we can improve the tracks, if we can improve the train system itself, people will say: 'We can travel by train just as comfortably as we can travel by motor vehicle'. The honourable member for Newcastle is a member of the Road Safety Committee, as I am, and he knows that every day 10 people die on Australian roads. Train accidents are very unusual, and when they do occur they hit the headlines. We are getting to the critical situation in Australia where every year 3,650 people die on the roads as a result of motor vehicle accidents. The first key point is safety and the second is the conservation of energy. We need a good rail system in every State in Australia. 
-Pollution too, of course. The reduction of pollution is the third key point. I believe that under the heading of this Bill one can talk about fuel conservation, about energy conservation. The means for doing that may be broadened to differentiate between greater or lesser reliance on market forces on the one hand and greater or lesser reliance on public interventionist policies on the other hand. But before considering means of implementation, it is useful to dwell on some of the ambiguities surrounding the concept of conservation. 
-I wrote that. 

-No, he is not. The honourable member for Newcastle puts me off the track every time. We are talking about rail tracks and I want to continue on this track for another five minutes. Somebody said to me:  'Mr Goodluck,  can you talk for 20 minutes on railways?' I said Yes ', and I intend to do that. 
-Well, there you are. At first glance, it appears that energy conservation is both easy to define and incontestable as a social goal. In the sense in which it currently figures as a public issue of growing prominence, energy conservation addresses a host of attractive objectives. It signifies the reduction or elimination of waste, and that is a key point. We are wasting fuel in Australia. I am probably speaking tongue in cheek when I say that for years petrol in Australia was sold at such a low price that unfortunately it was wasted, and yet today we need it. Surely it is a great waste when we have railways which can transport people from point A to point B and thousands of people are driving motor cars that are using precious fuel when they could travel in the comfort of a railway carriage. That is important and significant. We have an incredible situation in Tasmania where because of the admitted slowness and the downgrading of the railway system, because of the 3-foot 6-inch gauge, because of the inability to get quickly from point A to point B, the rail system has been wound down, except for the transportation of goods. In Tasmania we have no alternative to the motor car. There is no rail system at all except for the transportation of goods. I think the honourable member for Denison and I were the last two people to travel on the Tasman Limited. It was a beautiful train ride- scenic, picturesque, absolutely beautiful. Unfortunately, we do not have that railway now, but with a little imagination and ingenuity we could have had a good link between the capital city of Hobart and the small town of Launceston in the north of the State, or perhaps I should say that large town. 
-I love Launceston. Admittedly, there are reasons for not having that rail link, but one should consider the repercussions of the inadequacy of fuel supplies in the long term. I have mentioned the situation last weekend in Hobart when the tanker did not come and there was absolute pandemonium because people could not buy petrol. That could happen at any time in Tasmania. In a place of 400,000 people which is isolated from the rest of Australia there is absolute pandemonium when it does not have any fuel. We must be able to offer an alternative. Throughout the world modern scientists are saying: 'For goodness sake, conserve the energy sources that are an alternative to petrol. ' In the long term, we are going to be placed in a great predicament, with thousands of motor cars being driven by only one fuel, petrol, with no alternative available. It is about time that Australia woke up and started to look closely at the liquefied petroleum gas-driven motor car, the steam-driven motor car and the electricallydriven motor car. Unless we do that we will be in the predicament I mentioned where we will have plenty of motor cars and no fuel to drive them. 
-Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware of a report that the Police Association of New South Wales has recommended to the State Police Department that in the interests of road safety steel belted radials should not be fitted to police motor vehicles? Will the Minister call for an urgent report on this serious allegation which affects and reflects on thousands of consumers, local tyre manufacturers, tyre importing agents and motor vehicle manufacturers who fit steel belted radials as original equipment? 
-The House will be pleased to know that in my grievance today I am not going to talk about apples. The apple industry in Tasmania is booming and I am very pleased on that score. I want to talk about another very important subject, which is that every day 10 people die on the roads in Australia and that invariably one of those 10 is a young motor cyclist. I think that it is of great concern to every member of parliament and, of course, to everybody in the community that such unnecessarily high numbers of people are being killed on the roads. When one realises that 90,000 other people are injured each year it is clear that we have reached a terribly serious situation. Of course, many people are offering suggestions and ideas about how this problem can be overcome. When about 700 people were killed in the Vietnam war there was an uproar. But the fact that 3,650 people, on average, are killed on the roads in Australia every year should be a matter of great concern. I commend the Police Association of Tasmania in Hobart on its publicity campaign- I use the word publicity in its true sense- just prior to Easter, when it placed right in the centre of Hobart a car which had been involved in a very bad collision, in which five young people had been killed. 
-Yes. Of course, some people were repulsed by that, but other people started to realise the dangers involved in taking motor vehicles for granted when they are driven on the road. Motor vehicles are man made, but I am afraid that at the moment they are running wild. Young people, and some others who should not drive motor vehicles, are placing themselves and others in jeopardy when they drive. When young people and, of course, older people lose their lives the ones who are left are saddened and sometimes their lives are ruined. What can we do about that? In this House we have set up the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety, which is chaired by a very competent honourable member, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  who is assisted by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  A good bipartisan approach is adopted by members of the Committee. We work towards the common aim of trying to overcome the terrific and horrific problem of deaths on our roads. We have made certain suggestions but, as one can understand, sometimes suggestions can take a long time to be brought into effect. 
We have an incredible situation in Australia in that there is a lack of uniformity between the States. One State has a different set of rules from those of another. We find that young people can obtain driver's licences at a certain age in one State, but that age varies in other States. Young people can hop on high-powered motor cycles- 300cc motor cycles- without being required to have any prior training, et cetera. Unfortunately, they cannot always control those high:powered vehicles. Because of the price of fuel, motor cycles have started to become very popular again. About 4.8 per cent of motor vehicle registrations in Australia are for motor cycles, but the percentage of road deaths in Australia caused by motor cycles has increased now from 10 per cent to roughly 1 1.3 per cent. We have to look at that and try to find an answer to the problem. We have to find out how we can give people training before they ride a motor cycle. We have to make absolutely certain that young people have training before they are allowed to get on a motor cycle, before they are allowed to ride high-powered motor cycles which can cause such sadness. 
I, with many other people in Australia, watched a film on Japan where, with a population of 90 million people, they have been able to reduce the road toll to 14,000 a year. That represents a reduction of 50 per cent in the last 10 years. Many answers to the problem of road deaths might be suggested, but the one adopted by Japan seems to me to be a reasonable one. In Japan they have set up a model prison, in which a person who is involved in a major road accident which causes the death of another person is placed for a period of three years. The shame and reflection on the family of the person concerned is very important. But the point is that people go into that prison- if I may use the word prison- and learn once again the fundamentals of driving a motor car and of riding a motor cycle. The final chapter of their treatment in the prison is a form of shock treatment, in which they see the effects which road accidents have, not only on themselves and on the other people involved in the accident, but also on the people who are left- such as the families who are saddened- and the cost involved, et cetera. They start to realise what an horrific problem it is. Many of the people do not drive motor vehicles again after they come out of that model prison. They do not even ride motor cycles again. They catch public transport because they feel that they have caused people in the community to suffer such an injustice and such sadness that they just cannot go back to driving a motor vehicle. 
I read with interest that the Director of Road Safety in Tasmania, when addressing the Australian Hotels Association in Hobart, made a suggestion concerning road safety. Although the suggestion has been made before, I give  Mr Kelly  credit for his suggestion. Sometimes 1 have differed with him. We can talk about the problem drink causes in road safety. We all know and we must face up to the fact that the factor causing the greatest number of deaths on the road is drink combined with driving. But there are other contributing factors. I wanted to clarify a point during the week when I asked, in the House, why the Police Association of New South Wales had recommended to the Police Department of New South Wales that steel belted radial tyres should not be fitted to police vehicles. Of course, the Minister to whom I directed the question was not prepared for my question. I understand that. 
On the same day the honourable member for Kennedy issued a Press release indicating that the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety was going to look thoroughly into the Australian tyre industry, which produces radial, steel belted, textile, conventional and reconditioned tyres. But I believe that we need an answer to the question I raised, in which I asked why steel belted radial tyres are said by the Police Association of New South Wales to be unsafe. When one realises the number of steel belted radials which are fitted to vehicles in Australia today as original equipment, as well as on many other vehicles, one sees that the consumers in New South Wales have reason for concern. Of course, other people in Australia have reason for concern also. 
I come back to the point that the Director of Road Safety in Tasmania,  Mr Kelly,  has suggested that $5m should be outlaid by the Federal Government on a national campaign to educate young people in the problems of" driving a motor vehicle when they drink. I believe that it is a good suggestion. I believe that such an educational program should be introduced into schools. Young people at a very early age should be made aware of the fact that, if they drink and drive a motor vehicle, they place themselves and many other people in the community at risk. I agree with  Mr Kelly's  suggestion, but I believe that other factors are involved also. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. In the light of the United States decision to refuse an import permit for Tasmanian poppy straw concentrate and the serious effect that this will have on the industry, what action is the Commonwealth Government taking to assist the Tasmanian poppy growers and processors? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. The Minister will be aware that there are many people in Australia living an alternative community-type lifestyle. The Minister will be further aware that the principle of any responsible government is to direct assistance to the most needy in our community. Will the Minister give a firm assurance that the people who, by choice, live an alternative lifestyle do not receive unemployment benefits at the expense of others in the community who are more deserving? 
I address my question to the Prime Minister and I refer to the Constitution and to the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Is the Prime Minister aware that in the late 1960s a senator transferred to this House for the purpose of better carrying out his duties as a party leader? Is the Prime Minister aware of any examples of secretly appointed de facto leaders trying to follow that transfer example? Is it in order in terms of the Constitution for a major political party to have an interim leader without making a public announcement that the person is only temporarily filling the job? Finally, does the Prime Minister see disaster ahead for a Tasmanian senator? 
-I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that- 
The 6 major aims of the Croatian people in establishing the Croatian Embassy in Canberra were: 
1 ) Recognition by Governments and the Australian community that the Croatian people are a distinctive ethnic group and not Yugoslavs; 
That the Croatian people have a language which has been theirs through history and that the Croatian language is a modern language still used by the Croatian people; 
Recognition of the Croatian people as a distinct ethnic community (and not as Yugoslavs) by enabling the Croatian community to have their own ethnic broadcasts in the Croatian language through the use of community media facilities and services; 
The availability through Government departments and other institutions for interpreters, social and welfare workers, other liaison officers and other assistance to be made available in the Croatian language and through Croatians and not in the so called  Yugoslav language '; 
To obtain Government support for the review of Government and administrative discrimination of the Croatian people in matters of citizenship, employment and passports; and 
That the Government should recognise the genuine aims and grievances of the Croatian community. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the following question, without notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. He will recall that I previously brought to his attention a report that a young lady, after endeavouring to use an out of order telephone, was forcibily dragged from the booth and viciously assaulted. I now draw his attention to a case which occurred over the weekend and in which another young lady in a similar situation was viciously assaulted. Will the Minister once again call for a full report? Could research be undertaken into means by which the doors of telephone booths can be locked from the inside? 
The Minister for Primary Industry is no doubt aware of the immense value of the apple industry to the economy of Tasmania. Taking into consideration the assistance of stabilisation and freight equalisation, will the Minister advise the House as to what action he intends to take if the Tasmanian Apple Marketing Authority continues on its present path of destruction for the industry and the Authority itself, which is so vital in co-ordinating markets and prices in the United Kingdom and other countries? 
-I ask the Prime Minister once and for all, prior to the historic Cabinet meeting in Tasmania, whether Tasmania is being treated fairly by federal policies or whether its morale is being decimated by unnecessary Press statements and statements by a particular minister and the political upheavals occurring there at the moment. 
-by leave-I present the report of the Australian delegation to the International Conference of Parliamentarians on Population and Development at Colombo, Sri Lanka from 28 August to 3 September 1979. The five-day Conference, cosponsored by the United Nations Fund for Population Activities and the InterParliamentary Union, was the first to bring parliamentarians together to discuss global issues under the auspices of a United Nations organisation. The Conference was attended by 64 countries. Australia was represented by  Senator Tate  and myself. It was an extremely enlightening and, if I may say so, successful Conference. The key address was by former British Prime Minister,  Mr Edward  Heath and the Honorary  Chairman  of the Conference was a former Japanese Prime Minister,  Mr Kishi.  I would like to pay tribute to the participation of  Senator Tate,  who attended all sessions and worked extremely hard at all levels of the Committee stages. Subsequently, we were able to work as a team on a strictly bipartisan basis. 
Whilst the subject may not be a fashionable one in Australia, population and development is a global issue, and I firmly believe that Australia must get more involved in the problems besetting the developing countries in the world today. Sri Lanka proved to be an extremely appropriate country to hold such a conference. The people were friendly and hospitable. The country is beautiful, yet it left an indelible mark, unfortunately not for those reasons. 
If I may speak personally, when one leaves an island like Tasmania and goes to an island, roughly similar in dimension, yet with a population of nearly the same as Australia, one realises how well off one is here in Australia. Whilst we have problems they are far less in magnitude than those facing the people of Sri Lanka. I saw untold poverty, lack of sanitation, a lack of job opportunities and a lack of direction generally. I am not in any way being critical of the present Government of Sri Lanka which is working under extreme difficulties. With the two extremes of environment, the cosy environment of the Conference and the poverty stricken environment of the city itself, Sri Lanka was an ideal position to hold a conference of population and development. 
At the completion of the Conference a declaration was drawn up which will be known, and significantly so, as the Colombo Declaration. I have the draft form and whilst it was debated and completed at the eleventh hour of the Conference, the final declaration has not been received in Australia. The declaration draws attention to the considerable progress that has been made in the problems associated with population and development since the World Population Conference was held in Bucharest in 1974. It reaffirmed the principal aim of social, economic and cultural development, of which population goals and policies are integral parts. It aims to improve the levels of living and the quality of life of all people and there was a reiteration that there is a direct link between population programs and developing programs. There was a realisation that no population program should be considered from policies and plans of health, housing, education, employment, the environment and the use of resources. Equally, there was an increasing recognition that development programs should reflect population policies. 
It was significant and important to note that by the best of research in the 25 years up to 1975, the total population increased from just under 2,500 million to over 4,000 million. By the year 2000 it is expected to reach 6,200 million of which four-fifths will be in the developing countries, with a substantial majority living in desperate poverty. The implication of such increases are staggering in the developing countries. Between now and the end of the century, 800 million additional jobs will be needed to be created. This is more than the entire actively employed population of the developed world at the present time. Problems of similar magnitude will be posed as far as the provision of food, water and shelter is concerned. 
In the developed countries, per capita consumption of resources are much higher than in the developing world. Other vexing problems are the aging of the population, an internal and international migration becoming significant and important. The problems on a global level continue to expand. Human demands have created intolerable pressures on resources, particularly energy. Demands on fisheries, forests, grasslands and crop lands are mounting steadily and will continue to do so. Human needs have already begun to outstrip the productive capacity of many local biological systems as currently managed. It is clear that we can no longer afford to limit our viewpoint to the year 2000. Unless effective action is taken now in the field of population and development, world population could continue to rise to 8,000 million, or even 10,000 million people. A delay in just one generation in bringing world population to a stable level implies that approximately 3,000 million additional persons will be on this earth. 
The main objectives of the report are to improve the quality of life for these increasing numbers, to have governments concentrate on the requirement of food, shelter, clean water, work, education and medical care, as well as a decent environment to live in. If we are to avoid continued aggravation of the world population situation in the twenty-first century, we must follow the goals and objectives that are clearly spelt out at conference level in all countries of the world. A massive expansion of resources devoted to development programs will be required as well as the restructuring of those programs. We will need also a major expansion of preventive health and medical care and the family planning services linked with them. 
As soon as the final Colombo Declaration is received, it is my intention to ask my Government that it be incorporated in  Hansard  as I believe that it is significant and important. I think it is a viewpoint that all Australians should look at. We have problems in Australia, but they are nowhere near the problems of the Third World. We all should be aware of that. For the reasons I have given, I was very pleased to attend the conference with  Senator Tate. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that all tourist maps available on request on all TAA flights have a brief description of all capital cities: if so, does the description of Hoban detail a list of exports, namely, wool, zinc, paper, chocolate and timber, but omits apples. 
2 ) Will he ensure that TAA has this omission rectified. 
I have listened intently for the last couple of weeks and watched at close quarters some of the bitterness creeping, unfortunately, into the unemployment problem in Australia today. One could interpret some of the statements as being made purely for political gain or for trying to outscore the other side. I am afraid that sometimes the realisation of the problem is being forgotten. I notice, and it is very unfortunate, that a lot of bitterness is creeping into the reasons for the preparation of the document prepared by the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace for the Catholic bishops of Australia. I think it should be understood quite clearly that this document is an attempt by the Commission to come up with some practical solutions to what is a grave social problem in Australia. But it should be understood also that it is not the official teaching of the Catholic Church and does not bind Catholics in conscience. Catholics, with other members of the community, have every right to agree or disagree with this document. It is very unfortunate- I am not directing any criticism at my very good friend the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)-  that he found it necessary, and rightly so, as  Chairman  of the Government Members Employment and Youth Affairs Committee, to outline exactly what he thought of the document. Unfortunately the headline comes out 'Pure Marxism from the Pulpit'. It should be remembered that this document was prepared for the bishops not by them. Nowhere in the document are they quoted. Therefore, I think we have to have a very good, hard look at the people who prepared the document. 
MrGOODLUCK-I do not know whether or not they were embarrassed, but I think the whole matter has got out of hand. As a practising Catholic- there are many other practising Catholics in this House- I am embarrassed by some of the sentiments now being expressed. As a practising Catholic I wish to make it perfectly clear that I do not disagree with the reason for the writing of this document. But I do disagree- I think I am entitled to disagree- with some of the philosophical approaches that have been mentioned in this document. 
-I have not had very much time to analyse it. I would like to analyse it and to quote some of the passages in the document to stress exactly where these passages came from. They came from a source that I believe would embarrass the Catholic Church if it were quoted. 
Because they are against every fundamental principle of the Catholic Church - 
-Not against me politically. I am trying to be very fair and to outline this in a fair way. I hope that people realise this. This is not a document of the Catholic Church. It is a document prepared by people for the bishops of the Church. Therefore, it does not have the sanction of the Catholic Church. It does not have my sanction as a practising Catholic - 
-I do not have time to outline the document, but I thought I would make the point tonight because I note the extreme bitterness that is creeping into the reasons for the preparation of the document. The statement on unemployment was undoubtedly written with the excellent intention of increasing the awareness of unemployment and the cost which this phenomenon imposes on a significant section of the community. The motivating force is compassion for the disadvantaged, a sentiment which one could expect of bishops and, indeed, of any Christian deserving of the name. Nothing in this document is intended to detract from the excellence of the motives, but unfortunately the philosophy that comes through very strongly - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Before I ask a question of the Minister for Transport may I remind you,  Mr Speaker,  about the danger of the internal steps at the front of Parliament House? 
It is always very interesting - 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)The question now is: 
That each of the proposed expenditures covered in the report of Estimates Committee B be agreed to and the resolution and expression of opinion of Estimates Committee B be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
That the remainder of the Bill be agreed to. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House notes with concern the problems now being experienced by the lessee service station proprietors of Australia and calls on the Government to implement part of the Fife package prohibiting oil companies from themselves retailing petroleum through direct sales sites. 
-Will the Minister for Primary Industry tell the House why, when fixing the boundary for fishing feasibility studies, 39 degrees 30 minutes south latitude was chosen as the boundary between Victoria and Tasmania instead of 39 degrees 12 minutes south? Will the choice of boundary affect the viability of the Tasmanian fishing industry? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 November 1979: 
Is it possible as a first step to the indexing of family allowances to implement a scheme to index family allowances for families who are in receipt of one income on or below the average weekly earning or two incomes which together do not exceed that figure (i.e. widow's pension, single parents benefit, male or female invalid pensioners, etc.); if so, what would the cost to revenue be; if not, why not. 
