Is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware that the New South Wales State Government is experiencing great difficulty in maintaining adult migrant education services? Was only $3.2m provided by the Federal Government for adult migrant English classes in New South Wales this year? Will this sum finance the current classes? As immigration is a Federal responsibility, is it not also a Federal responsibility to provide adequate finance so that migrants may be encouraged to learn English quickly? Is proficiency in English a necessary pre-condition to social opportunity and employment? Does the Government realise that, without proficiency in English, migrants are condemned to low pay and menial tasks? Will the Government provide funds now for the general expansion of this service, including provision of classes for shift workers and for unemployed migrants? 
I speak tonight with some pride and a great deal of humility. I am proud to speak in this House as the newly elected Labor member for Cunningham and as the Federal representative of the greatest industrial and steel producing centre in this nation. I speak with humility that I should be here in place of the late Rex Connor, Australia 's first Minister for Minerals and Energy, a man who directed the attitudes of my Party and the nation to a correct appreciation of the need for public participation in and public ownership of our great national resources. 
My electorate of Cunningham is the steel heartland of Australia. It has a work force of 80,000 people. It should be a great centre for the training of our youth in the skilled trades we will require in the future. Alas, that is not the present situation. Cunningham is bedevilled by unemployment. National unemployment is bad enough. I understand that it currently stands at 328,000. Surprisingly, some 800,000 people have been unemployed at some time or other in the last 12 months. 
In the electorate of Cunningham, the situation is even worse than that. Seven thousand and thirty people or 9 per cent of the work force are unemployed in the Wollongong, Warilla, Shellharbour area. Those people are seeking 256 job vacancies. In the satellite town of Warilla, twelve kilometres from Wollongong, at the end of September 1,999 people were unemployed. Sixteen job vacancies are registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. That is one job for every 124 work seekers. So much for the Government's claim over the last two years that many of the unemployed youth are dole bludgers. In the electorate of Cunningham, 2,500 to 3,000 young people are due to leave school at the end of this year. Twelve thousand more are expected to leave school over the next five years. What policies is the Government putting forward to provide jobs for the youth of this great steel centre and for the Australian nation? I give one further illustration of the cancer of unemployment in this great industrial electorate. The major union is the Federated Ironworkers Association. In September 1975, 13,946 people in that great steel complex were members of that great union. Today only 12,3 19 people are members. That is a reduction in just two years of 1,627 ironworkers which is a fair example of the decline in the steel industry in Australia. 
Furthermore, 35 per cent of steel from Port Kembla is exported. That is all very well if we can find the markets but, as the figure shows, we cannot depend on steel exports alone. The rest of the steel produced in Port Kembla is for domestic use. Finished steel products are used in the building and construction industry and the civil engineering industry. On behalf of the electors of Cunningham, I urge the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Government to cease speculating about an early election, to cease promoting industrial troubles as an issue on which to hang an early election and to get down to the job of resuscitating the Australian economy. Only when the Australian economy is resuscitated will the steel industry at the great industrial centre of Port Kembla also be resuscitated. I urge that there be selective grants of capital expenditure nationally in Une with the pre-Budget WhitlamHayden plan to prime the Australian economy. What is wrong with putting $800m or $l,000m into the areas of housing, public transport and urban development? There is nothing strange about that. I quote from the September issue of the well known Japanese periodical  Look Japan.  Lo and behold, the Japanese are doing the same thing which  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Hayden  are advocating, which this Government tells us would most certainly cause a great deal more inflation. Under the heading 'Fiscal and Monetary Policies', the publication states: 
Acceleration of Public Investment 
Addition of public investment of about Y2 trillion in this fiscal year. 
Addition of public works for infrastructure (Y1 trillion). 
Addition of Housing Loan Corporation credit ( 100,000 houses) ( Y870 billion). 
Addition of public works to local governments for sewage systems, subways, etc. by increasing the local govern- ments'bond issues (Y150 billion). 
Apparently the Japanese are not too worried about inflation. They would sooner get their people to work. In conclusion, I give two prime examples of what we could do locally in Wollongong with capital expenditure. The State Government informs me that it has allocated $5.8m of State government expenditure until 1981 to build the first stage of the electrification of the railway line from Sutherland to Waterfall. We should like to speed that up, not only to provide jobs and an improved rail service but also it might come in handy to get some of the unemployed youth from Wollongong to commute quickly to Sydney for employment opportunity. Alas, under this Government I do not think that is to be either. I quote from a letter from  Mr Peter  Cox, the New South Wales Minister for Transport, to the  Speaker,  the  Hon.  L. B. Kelly, M.L.A. Two sentences will suffice to illustrate what I am saying. The letter stated: 
As you are probably aware, all we got from the Federal Government was $0.6m for new urban public transport works in 1 977-78- sufficient to buy only two carriages. 
One further protest: I also understand that the cuts in hospital development programs in the recent Budget were to the extent of some $5 8m. This could create a grave problem in the southern part of the electorate of Cunningham in the area of Oak Flats-Warilla. There is currently a new Shellharbour hospital under constructiona hospital which it is hoped will serve some 38,000 people. There is a good deal of worry in the southern part of my electorate that the construction of this vital hospital will be interfered with as a result of the cuts in the Government's hospital development program. 
I raise one further point. It is in regard to the Government's educational program for unemployed youth. I understand that there is a great problem regarding this matter. When people elect to take this program and attend the classes they are taken off unemployment relief and are paid an allowance under the National Employment and Training scheme. In Wollongong the classes are in danger of collapse because when these people are transferred from one program to another, from unemployment relief to the NEAT scheme, and attend the education program classes for unemployed youth there is a long delay before they receive their payments. I repeat that the program in Wollongong is in danger of collapse because some 30 young people have not been paid for a period of eight weeks. It has been said that this Government will campaign on a slogan of 'Demand the right to work '. Hear, hear, because there could be no better epitaph to this Government which has presided over the highest unemployment figures since the Great Depression. The Australian Labor Party welcomes an election whenever it is to be held because I believe that we will form the next government of this country. 
-The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  said in his second reading speech that the total work force in the stevedoring industrythat is the waterside workers- had fallen from some 21,000 men in 1966 to just over 10,000 today. He did not explain the reason for this decline. The reason is that mechanisation and improved cargo handling facilities such as bulk sugar installations in Queensland, the containerisation of cargo and the advent of roll-on roll-off shipping have improved tonnage rates, have increased profits and have made large numbers of men redundant to the industry. This faster turn-around of shipping has meant greater efficiency in the industry. It has provided greater profits for stevedoring companies and shipping companies. For the men who work the snips it has meant a very hard struggle to obtain improvements to their wages and working conditions or to achieve ameliorative measures to alleviate the need for fewer workers in the industry. 
I remember the position in north Queensland ports in the mid-1950s. Then there were 2,666 workers engaged in the sugar trade. Ten years later, in 1965, there were only 1,199. By 1977 all that remained of the 2,666 workers in north Queensland in 1955 were a mere 284 workers. Like the highland Scots after their eighteenth century persecution by the English ruling class, they had scattered far and wide. They had to because there was no further work for them in north Queensland. They had received no help and no compensation from the industry for the loss of their work. 
Today the workers in the stevedoring industry receive reasonable wages and work under reasonable conditions. It was not always so. Until 1968 the industry was of a casual nature. The 1930s was the time of the infamous bull system in which at the major ports men would go to the wharves every morning or every evening in the hope of obtaining work. Each day they went there. They were picked up on a daily basis, at the discretion of the employer. During the Depression in the 1 930s more often than not they did not receive work. They received no fringe benefits. They often worked 24-hour shifts. Some of them actually worked 48-hour shifts. I understand that the 24-hour shift was not removed from the Australian waterfront until the Second World War. Even in the 1950s, an era of which I personally recall, they did not enjoy the normal rights that the other workers enjoyed. They were not paid for sick leave or for public holidays. They did not enjoy a long service leave entitlement. There was no pension scheme. 
In 1965 a crisis had arisen because of mechanisation in the industry. Large numbers of men had become redundant. The Waterside Workers Federation at that time commenced a struggle for an industry pension, for two reasons. The first was to give common justice to men who had worked a lifetime in the industry. Many of them at that time were approaching 75 years of age. The second reason for the struggle in 1965 was to ease those older men out of the industry, to overcome the redundancy situation. This pension demand led to the Woodward conference, an all inindustry conference, which by 1968 had come up with a permanency proposal which was eventually implemented. The inhuman casual system on the waterfront was finished forever by 1968. 1 think I should pay a tribute to the General Secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation,  Mr Charles  Fitzgibbon, at this time, because I know that no other man in the industry fought harder than he did for an end to the casual system. Permanency, as it was then known, set up a system under which men were placed in operational companies. Further to provide for the rise and fall of labour demands, labour pools were set up under the administration of the Stevedoring Employers of Australia Ltd, the idea being that they would form a backup labour force. 
It is interesting to study the role of the Authority while all this was taking place. Since 1968 the power of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority has waned. Of course the Authority is now about to be phased out altogether. It has survived, I think, since 1941, first as a commission, then as a board, and finally as an authority. Its activities and attitudes have been all that those of a government instrumentality ought not to have been. It has been the very essence of heavy-handed bureaucratic interference with the nuts and bolts working of the industry. The main role of the ASIA over the years was to attack the workers on whom the industry depended, the men who actually worked the ships. In the 1960s the Authority attacked its own workers with absolute dedication. For instance, in 1963, using its powers under the Waterfront Long Service Leave Act, the Authority fined waterside workers-its own workers-£ 1.2m by cancelling their already pitifully inadequate attendance money allowances. Instead of being a force to reduce confrontation, it exacerbated confrontation by its over zealous use of its statutory disciplinary powers over individuals. 
The Authority has now reaped the bitter harvest of those years of anti-worker activities. When the maritime workers were given the opportunity to vote for its continuation or otherwise, to a man they voted to abolish it. Those in the Government and the Labor Party, in the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, in the Australian Shippers Council and in the trades unions- I include myself amongst them, now as a federal memberwho may have wished to see a national corporation as favoured in the Foster report or the nationalisation of stevedoring, can thank the Authority for the backlash of industry opinion that has resulted in the National Stevedoring Industry Conference deciding to recommend firstly the abolition of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority; secondly, the restoration of the industry to full private control; and thirdly, the withdrawal of the Government as a body having a meaningful presence in the industry. 
Let me examine briefly the proposals of the National Stevedoring Industry Conference, since they are what this legislation is all about and what the legislation legitimises. Obviously, after the Government abolishes the Authority and the SEAL labour pool, the National Conference proposes to allocate workers from the labour pools to private operational companies, with the exception of the ports of Kembla and Newcastle, where I understand that the pools will continue. National port and co-ordinating committees will be set up. Not much emphasis has been placed upon those committees in this House. I wish to expand on them in a moment. It is proposed that these committees will take the place of the Authority and of the Stevedoring Employees of Australia Ltd administration procedure. There will be supplementary labour pools. I note that the Minister did not say that these supplementary labour lists would be made up of exwaterside workers, men who are now on the B register or men who may retire in the future. Certainly, it is my personal opinion that the workers in the maritime industry will never accept pools of supplementary casual labour that are not made up from this source. 
The report of the National Stevedoring Industry Conference provides for the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to act as a final arbitrator to the co-ordinating committees in the event of disagreement. I think it is appropriate at this time to examine what the federal and port co-ordinating committees are all about. The industry still has to be administered and these committees will take the place of the bodies which are doing the administration- now that is SEAL, as it is known, and the Authority. The federal co-ordinating committee shall be composed of representatives of the major employers- the Australian Employers of Waterfront Labour- BHP, the Australian National Line and the Waterside Workers Federation. Its functions will include deciding the number of waterside workers required in each port, the requirement for recruitment including agreed procedural matters, the establishment and operation of registers of waterside workers for each port, arrangements for application of agreed redundancy and early retirement procedures, arrangements for transfers of labour between ports to cater for peak requirements, agreed arrangements concerning supplementary labour force, and matters referred to it from the port coordinating committees. 
The port co-ordinating committees have a similar role. They have equal representatives from the industry users, the employers and the union, in this case the Waterside Workers Federation. Their functions are similar. They include responsibility for recruitment arrangements agreed by the federal co-ordinating committee, registers of authorised waterside workers and matters associated with removal of men from registers, redundancy or early retirement arrangements agreed in the federal co-ordinating committee, and local matters associated with the supplementary labour force. 
Since I arrived in this Parliament I have noticed that there is one major theme of the Government. That is to attack unions. I heard it firstly from Cabinet Ministers and then from a gaggle of back benchers. Without exception the theme is that most leaders of major unions are left wingers, communists or fools all intent on stirring up industrial confrontation, all intent on causing trouble in industry. That is the view, apparently, of the Government. It might be that it has to have something to hang an early election on before those 170,000-odd people leave school next year and add to the ranks of the unemployed. 
The honourable member can have his say later, but I bet he has never carried a bag of sugar on his back. Since I came into this House I have heard two explicit attacks on the Waterside Workers Federation. I find it very strange to listen to these attacks on trade unions. Early in 1976, after the Foster report had proved inconclusive and the Northrop inquiry was set up, the Waterside Workers Federation was asked to submit proposals. They were submitted on 23 March 1976. The inquiry dragged on until  Mr Justice  Kirby finally released the final report on 5 April 1977. What did we then find? We found that the original proposals of the Waterside Workers Federation are almost without exception the same proposals as this Bill implements. This Government, which is so fond of union bashing, is legislating to give responsibility for the administration of the Australian stevedoring industry to the Australian Employers of Waterfront Labour and the Waterside Workers Federation. It is amazing. The Government believes in worker participation in the management of industry and yet it has the audacity to attack with such ferocity the very same leaders who put forward these proposals to restructure Australian stevedoring. The Government has called  Mr Fitzgibbon  a communist, but it took his advice, tendered in March/ April 1976, about the best ways in which to restructure the industry. 
Let me give another example of what I regard as duplicity on the part of the Government. I have heard attacks made on the power workers in the Latrobe Valley because they wanted an increase in their miserable starting wage of $161 a week. The euphemisms which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations used in his speech to explain how these amazing, painless redundancies took place on the Australian waterfront do not make clear how they really did take place. Let me tell honourable members how they took place. They occurred because all men over 60 years of age in the ports concerned on the Australian waterfront were offered a retirement allowance of 70 per cent of what they would have earned if they had stayed in the industry until they were 65 years of age. That is quite generous; very good; very understanding. Why does this Government not extend similar generosity to other underpaid workers? The Government has attacked the workers of the Latrobe Valley while it has offered generosity to waterside workers. That is what happened when 
I was a waterside worker. Why does the Government not offer similar generosity to other workers whose jobs are at stake in industries where men are becoming redundant? I understand the Government is even legislating now to deny the unemployment benefit to the youngsters who will leave school this year. They will not be eligible to receive the benefit until February. It is a pity they could not be afforded the same generosity that was extended to the men in the stevedoring industry. 
In the long term there is a need for unions in the stevedoring industry to amalgamate. For instance, Port Kembla in my electorate is one of the largest ports in terms of tonnage in Australia. In that port 13,735,000 tons of steel, coal, iron ore and general cargoes were handled last year. It is one of the great ports of the Southern Hemisphere. But is it necessary to have Federated Enginedrivers' and Firemen's Association of Australia members exporting coal; ironworkers discharging iron ore and waterside workers handling steel and general cargoes? In the stevedoring industry, just as in other industries, there is a need for unions to combine for greater efficiency and to achieve better results for their members. I know that BHP obstinately refuses to extend the same precise working conditions to its iron workers engaged in stevedoring as it extends to members of the waterside workers union. Therein lies the seed of industrial trouble, trouble that this Government likes to ascribe to 'left wing agitators ' to suit its own political purposes. 
I wish I could say that I regard this legislation as being the solution to problems in the stevedoring industry. But I cannot. I do not think that stevedoring companies are more fit today to run the industry than they were last year when Patrick Stevedoring paid exorbitant fees amounting to over $600,000 to  Sir Reginald  Reed. Australian workers and consumers paid  Sir Reginald  that sum of $600,000. Stevedoring companies are just as rapacious as multinationals like Utah who act in their own self-interest in their pursuit of rip-off profits from Australian coal exports. 
We in the Opposition support the Bill. The waterside workers support it and so do the Australian employers of waterfront labour. Possibly it is the only viable alternative at this time. However, it is my opinion that some future Federal Labor government will very likely still find it necessary to place this highly volatile stevedoring industry under public administration and ownership to achieve the best results for Australia and the men who work the wharves. 
Debate interrupted. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. He will recall that in response to a question without notice from the Government back bench yesterday about unemployment he stated: 
The figure . . . that is, the number of persons registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service ... for September of this year was 328,200 or 8 per cent more than for the same month of 1 975. 
When will the Treasurer cease misleading the House? I ask the Treasurer On reflection does he wish to amend this assertion as in September 1975 246,094 were registered as unemployed and in September this year 328,200 persons were registered, an increase of some 82,106 or 33 per cent? Is it a fact also that the Australia and New Zealand Bank's latest index of industrial production revealed that production was currently at its lowest point for five years and has declined in every month of this year? 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether he has given deep consideration to the latest unemployment figures which are now at a postDepression record level of 370,335, and are at least 5,000 higher than the September figures, even after allowing - 
I wish the House to consider the current deficiency in Federal funding of adult migrant education programs, particularly those conducted in New South Wales, including my electorate of Cunningham. At present financial responsibility lies with the Federal Government for this service although it is administered by the States via their education departments. This ultimate federal financial responsibility must be accepted and discharged. Immigration has been a Federal matter since Federation, especially since the great post war government sponsored immigration programs. The Federal Government is responsible for the admission of migrants. There is no way that the Government and the Parliament can continue a miserly and half-baked attitude towards the needs of migrants. Adult nonEnglish speaking migrants should be afforded the opportunity speedily to acquire a working knowledge of the English language. 
The situation is that in Australia at present some 1 1 per cent of the people are non-English speaking migrants and that same percentage rules in New South Wales. In my electorate of Cunningham over 20 per cent of the population are non-English speaking migrants. In the biggest industrial complex in Cunningham, the Australian Iron and Steel steel making complex, over 60 per cent of the workers are non-English speaking migrants. Unfortunately, Australian Iron and Steel has followed a policy over the years of encouraging semi-literate migrants into the work force because they accept very low wages and take the most menial jobs. 
There is a great need for improvements in adult migrant education. I want to compare the need with the pitiful efforts made by the Government to date. In the last Budget only $ 10.4m was made available for this service. An amount of $3.25m was allocated to New South Wales.  Mr Bedford,  the New South Wales Minister for Education, estimated last August that at least $5m was required to provide an adequate service for 1977-78. A belated amount of $2.2m was put into this area last October but the New South Wales Teachers Federation now estimates that at least $9m is required in New South Wales alone. At present there are two categories in this service, the ordinary day and night classes and the classes conducted in industry within working time. 
During the time left to me tonight I intend to concentrate very briefly on the second category. Several weeks ago officers of the Federated Ironworkers Association, the Adult Migrant Education Service, Australian Iron and Steel and I inspected these facilities. I saw that there were four classes with about 180 pupils participating in 80 hours instruction time only. Educationalists say that at least 800 hours is required to acquire proficiency in a foreign language. The material conditions were very poor. In fact, the class consisted of nothing else but the pupils, the teacher, a blackboard and a piece of chalk. There were no books, not even exercise books, certainly not textbooks. The pupils, if I may call them pupilsmany of them were semi-literate migrants- were using pencils and scraps of paper. There was certainly no television, closed circuit television, or audio visual equipment that we have come to expect in schools since the advent of the Whitlam Government in 1972. 
The service has three very great needs about which I wish to inform the House following my inspection. We must extend the opportunity to more workers. We must lengthen the time of the courses and we must provide better teaching facilities to the pupils and the teachers. The Federal Government should meet its responsibilities in these matters. The migrants themselves demand this. The English-speaking people in our community support them. There must be an end to the situation when many migrant workers are forever condemned to the most menial jobs, where migrant women become virtual prisoners in their own homes as a direct result of their language difficulties. My experience in my electorate, with 20 per cent of its people from nonEnglish speaking countries, is that the majority of these people passionately wish to be truly part of our society while still remembering and retaining their own traditions. They not only want to have equal opportunities; they demand them. 
I offer my congratulations to the honourable members who have made their maiden speeches today. The content of the Governor-General's Speech indicates that the Government is living in a dreamtime world. For instance, the Governor-General said in his Speech: 
My Government's priorities are clear. They are: 
To build on the progress we have made in the last two years, defeat inflation and unemployment and restore full economic health to our country. 
They seem a little like Voltaire's character  Dr Pangloss.  The Government seems to think that everything is for the best in the best of all possible worlds. What is the reality behind the cliches? It has been said before in this House that unemployment is running nationally at 445,000. In my electorate of Cunningham 9,100 currently are unemployed. The worst of it is the tremendous unemployment amongst young people. 
Some 1,475 young females are seeking 22 registered vacancies with the Wollongong Commonwealth Employment Service. Some 1,522 unskilled workers are seeking 89 registered vacancies in Wollongong. Some 602 people are seeking jobs in the services sector which has only nine registered vacancies. The  Chairman  of the Illawarra County Council told me only last night that it received 253 applications for 15 apprenticeships which it advertised. ' The long term position is even worse. Three factors affect long term employment in Australia. Firstly, there are school leavers. Secondly, there are migrants. Thirdly, there are women who seek to re-enter the work force. I have calculated, taking these factors into consideration, that we must create at least 900,000 jobs in the next five years, if we wish to keep unemployment down to 200,000. If the Government follows its present economic policy there is no hope in the world of even getting anywhere near that figure of 900,000 extra jobs in the next five years. Despite this appalling situation the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said: 
The Government rejects at the outset of this parliamentary term the notion that the Australian economy is in any kind of a recession. 
He seems to be the only person in Australia who thinks so. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  points to bandaid schemes such as the special youth employment training program, the community youth support scheme and the educational program for unemployed youth. The special youth employment training program is qualitative in the sense that an employer has to employ someone under 25 years of age who has been unemployed for four months before the employer qualifies for the subsidy. If the scheme is to be in any way effective these qualifications ought to be immediately dropped because they discriminate against school leavers for obvious reasons. The scheme is not effective anyway. 
Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd is the biggest single employer in the Cunningham electorate. It employs more than 12,000 people. I am informed that it has less than 20 young people employed under the special youth employment training program. Obviously then the program is ineffective. Other economic problems are bedevilling the Government. I mentioned the rate at which private capital is flowing out of Australia. I understand that from $900m to $ 1,000m has gone out of Australia since 1 July last year, and that the Government has had to borrow some $ 1,700m from overseas to prop up the dollar and avoid devaluation. These facts are well known. The Government said that if necessary it will keep borrowing to avoid devaluation. Let the Government keep borrowing if its economic policies are forcing it to do so. At least it is preferable to devaluation. 
I remember that the Government condemned my predecessor for seeking overseas funds not to prop up the dollar but to invest in Australia's development. Now the Government is borrowing from overseas purely to defend the currency against the results of its own inadequacies. I also point out that $ 1 26m or 1 4 per cent of the $900m private capital outflow from this country in the last seven months was sent abroad by the Utah Development Corporation in the month of September last year. This leads me to deal with the critical area of coal and steel exports. In his Speech, the Governor-General said: 
It is our priority to vigorously promote the development of Australian resources and enlarge our export trade. 
Let me examine briefly the current position in the coal export trade. I took the trouble several weeks ago to go the central Queensland coalfields and inspect the operations of Utah Mining Australia Ltd. I found- these facts are well known- that the company made a profit of $158m in 1977 from four mines in the Bowen Basin of Queensland. Those mines were Goonyella, Blackwater, Saraji and Peak Downs. The company sent $ 126m of that $ 1 58m abroad. It employs 2,800 workers, 1,237 of them at two mines- Goonyella and Peak Downs. It employed 27 apprentices at those two mines. The company took on nine apprentices in 1978. There are 1,500 students at the Moranbah school. Moranbah is the town that was built to service the Peak Downs and Goonyella mines. I do not know where those kids will find jobs when they leave school but certainly they will not find them in Utah 's coalmines. That is for sure. 
I will now give the basic figures for the operation of the company. This is important. The company's initial capital investment was $440m to get four .nines on stream. It received $622m in coal export earnings in 1977. As I have said, $ 1 58m of that amount was profit and $ 1 26m was sent overseas. An amount of $79m was paid to the Federal Government via the coal levy. Why is the Government, in view of these figures, considering the removal of the coal export levy without due consideration being given to a resources tax? 
I would think that a company which made a profit of $ 1 58m- the highest profit ever recorded by a company in Australia- would be entitled to pay $79m in the form of a coal export levy. Let me come to some conclusions in regard to the situation. Utah runs a highly capital intensive operation. This is obviously the case as only 2,800 people are employed by it. The company refuses to employ any Australian workers on its coal export ships, despite the fact that in 1975-76 only 2.7 per cent of our imports was brought to Australia in Australian ships and only 0.2 per cent of our exports went abroad in Australian ships. The company has an immensely high profit rate on its initial capital investment. If an initial capital investment of $440m can produce an annual profit of $ 158m it is obvious that in 2.8 years the Utah Mining Australia Ltd will repay its entire capital investment. 
The third conclusion I reached was that the company is not recovering all the coal through its open cut mines. At Goonyella I saw a seam of coal some 20 feet high and 80 feet down had been uncovered and mined. The cut was then filled in on top of another coal seam that is supposed to be not more than 100 feet below that. We have immense reserves of coal but they are not strong enough to withstand that sort of an operation. Fourthly, Utah is undercutting the price received by the New South Wales underground mines. I can assure you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the figures I am about to give are accurate. The South Coast mines are currently receiving $47.25 a tonne for their coal. Utah is selling its coal from $45 a tonne down to $43.60 a tonne for coking coal. Of course, its transport costs are cheaper. As a result of the downturn in the world steel industry, the Japanese are not taking their full export quotas. They are discriminating against New South Wales South Coast underground mines. For instance, the Coalcliff mine, one of the biggest underground mines in Australia, which is run by the Kembla Coal and Coke Pty Ltd had contracts with the Japanese to supply 2.3 million tonnes of coal in 1977. The Japanese accepted only 1.5 million tonnes of coal, or 65 per cent of the contract. The contract with Utah was for the supply of 12.6 million tonnes of coal. The Japanese took 1 1.06 million tonnes of coal, or 87 per cent of the contract. Obviously in a downturn situation the Japanese preferred to give more business to the Queensland open cut coal producers. 
In addition, most of these contracts are now expiring and representatives of all the mines generally are overseas to re-negotiate new contracts. It was printed in the national media last Friday that the Thiess-Dampier-Mitsui group which runs the Moura mine in Queensland has had its coal price screwed down by $1.30 a tonne to $42.54 a tonne for the next two years. The contract also contains no escalation clause for the next two years and has cut the volume of sales by 20 per cent. This prompted the  Australian Financial Review  last Friday to state: 
There is little doubt that the Japanese will use the ThiessDampierMitsui agreement as a precedent in forthcoming negotiations with other suppliers. 
I say to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and to this House that there is a timebomb ticking away in the New South Wales underground coal mining industry and that unless the Government takes some action on the matter a critical situation could arise. Today I received a copy of a telegram which was sent by  Mr Kelly,  the General  President  of the Australian Coal and Shale Employees' Federation, to the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony. Mr Kelly  stated: 
Miners Federation requests urgent discussions regarding export quotas and prices of export coal. Request Government refusal to grant export permits to any company accepting a reduction in present contractual agreements at present until after conference with Commonwealth Government and mining unions liaison committee. 
There should be a conference and a debate in this House on the possible crisis looming in the coal industry and also in the steel industry. Action ought to be taken on this matter to set up a national negotiating authority to act on behalf of Australian exporters. There ought to be action also to achieve the results that Rex Connor achieved in 1974-75 when he was successful in forcing a uniform price for all coal of the same quality. There ought to be a resources tax to cream off the profits that Utah is making. Finally, in the long term, there ought to be increased public ownership in the industry. That is the best way to preserve our exports and in the long run to get the best results for Australia. Honourable members opposite might ask: Could we do it? Of course we could do it. It will cost Utah $250m to develop Norwich Park, the mine which I saw in Queensland. Utah will probably produce 4.5 million tonnes of coal a year from that mine, and on the profit made by Utah in 1977 the initial capital investment for Norwich Park will be repaid in less than five years. 
Australia's coal resources are vast but they are not infinite. They are non-renewable energy resources that were created from 250 million years of natural development. We badly need a national energy policy to rationalise export targets and our own future needs- to replace the present short-sighted rip-off, rip-out, sell-out policies of the present Government. The Utah company exported $ 126m worth of jobs last September. The day will come when Rex Connor's words will ring true in this country. He said that it would be better to have black gold in our own land than green paper in someone else 's. 
There is also a developing problem in the steel industry. Of course, the problems in the coal industry are a direct result of what is going on in the steel industry. The European Common Market countries are currently producing at 68 per cent of capacity. Japan is producing at 71 per cent of capacity, the United States of America at 77 per cent and Australia at 84 per cent. I understand that Australia may be down to 65 per cent of capacity next year. Understandably, the Common Market countries are reluctant to continue to' accept and increase exports of steel from Australia. Currently, we export some 44 per cent of our national steel production. Four per cent of those exports go to the European Economic Community. At Port Kembla, some 41 per cent of steel produced goes all over the world and 7 per cent is sent to the EEC. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd has been accused of dumping steel on the EEC market. That is, it has been accused of selling steel below the import reference price. Currently, that is about 6.5 per cent below the Common Market price or minimum guidance price. It is necessary to export steel from Australia. Indeed, it is most desirable. With our great advantages of abundant coal and iron ore it is tragic that, because of obsolete technology, we are not competitive with the Japanese. But before we squawk too much about the Europeans we should look very hard at our domestic consumption levels. Our steel consumption levels have been artificially reduced by this Government's attacks on wages and by its cutbacks in Federal spending for construction jobs. 
Before I conclude my contribution to this debate I want to compare the consumption rates of the Common Market and Australia. In 1976-77 258 million people in the Common Market consumed 127 million tonnes of steel which is 0.49 tonnes per capita. Australia, with 14 million people, consumed 5 million tonnes which is 0.35 tonnes per capita. If we were to lift the domestic consumption of steel by resuscitating the Australian economy even up to 0.4 tonnes per capita it would mean we would use almost another 700,000 tonnes of steel per year and probably would take the sting out of any loss in Common Market sales. 
Let me return briefly to the general economic recession. Let us all urge this Government to stimulate employment by allocating extra funds to the States for capital works. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development urges this, the International Monetary Fund urges it, and the States are urging it. But the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  defends his stagnation policies as rigidly as the high priests of ancient Egypt defended their ancient gods. The Governor-General referred to this point in his speech: 
Rigorous restraint of Government expenditure so as to provide for longer term expansion in the private sector. 
Last year the economic editor of the Melbourne  Age  said: 'But in Australia, instead of resources being transferred to the private sector they have been transferred to the unemployed sector'. The  National Times  of last weekend said: 'Australia is leading the world in conservative economic policies'. Today an Australia and New Zealand Bank report said: 'There is little prospect of a sustainable economic recovery in 1978 if the Government follows its present policies'. There is a great need in Australia today for new economic initiatives and ideas. This Government is bereft of ideas. I would suggest that the Government very strongly consider permanent cuts in sales tax, particularly on motor cars, as that might help General Motors-Holdens Ltd, Chrysler Australia Ltd and the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd a little bit. Perhaps in return for a permanent cut in sales tax these companies could offer to peg the price of new cars for at least 12 months. Perhaps they could cease to depress real wages which already have been depressed by some $10 per week over the past two years. 
I find it very strange that the Government should argue: 'Increases in wages cause inflation and that causes unemployment so therefore we must get real wages down'. I say the Government already has depressed wages down by $10 per week over the last two years and in that period the number of unemployed persons has risen by 163,000. This is very, very strange reasoning on the part of the Government. The next thing we need to do is to put heavy amounts of Federal expenditure into capital expenditure for State and local government. There are many projects in my electorate on which money could be spent in a worthwhile manner, particularly in the area of public transport. New roads are needed. We need, for instance, money to be spent on the F6 expressway to a great new housing estate which is known as site 7,200. A northern distributor for which people have been waiting for years; the new coal roads which will be needed to get coal from the Burragorang Valley to the new coal loader at Port Kembla. There is an urgent need for the rail line between Sydney and Wollongong to be electrified. A light rail line needs to be constructed to get workers from the dormitory suburbs in the south of my electorate to Port Kembla. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (upon motion by  Mr N.  A. Brown) adjourned. 
-Is the Minister for Trade and Resources aware that at least one Australian coal exporting company has been forced to accept a reduction in price of $1.32 per tonne for export coal to Japan, reduced volumes of exports in its contract and a fixed price for two years? Is the amount substantially below prices previously obtained by New South Wales underground mines? Will the Thiess-Dampier-Mitsui negotiations adversely affect all future coal export negotiations with Japan? Finally, has the Minister received requests to halt export licences until a conference of all Australian coal exporters, the Government and trade unions is convened? 
-Last week's decision in the national wage case was a disaster. It reduced the real value of the national average wage by $2.12 a week. It will increase unemployment, not reduce unemployment as the Government claims. The truth is that this Government has no wages policy at all, except to attack workers' wage adjustments as being responsible for inflation and unemployment. In 1975 the present Government pretended to have a wage policy. It promised to support full wage indexation. Since then it has reneged on that pledge on every possible occasion. I quote from a document entitled 'Employment and Industrial Relations Policy' which was released on 29 July 1975 by the Liberal and National Country Parties. It stated: 
In wage adjustments, two principles should be observedthe raising of the minimum wage as well as appropriate rewards for skill, effort and responsibility. 
I shall later show how the Government has treated the skilled tradesman in the metal trades industry over the last two years. The policy document then waffled on: 
The Liberal and National Country Parties are determined that all Australians will enjoy the highest living standards the nation can afford. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  acted with equal duplicity in his policy speech on 27 November 1975. He said: 
The Government will support the - presentwage indexation agreement - 
The current indexation agreement at that date referred to full wage indexation. Since then the Government's record has been one of duplicity indeed, as I have noted. Some five weeks later in January 1976, after having made these promises, the Government opposed full wage indexation in the case for the December 1975 quarter. It argued for half of the 6.4 per cent increase to be awarded. It was not successful. Since then it has opposed full indexation on six occasions and the result has been seven out of eight plateau or partial wage indexation decisions. Their actions have cost the average wage earner in Australia in excess of $ 13 per week. 
The role of the media during this exercise over the last  2Vi  years has been interesting. For instance, I cite one national newspaper, the  Australian,  which seems to be leading the charge for reduced real wages in the media and for less frequent hearings of national wage cases. After the first indexation case the  Australian  stated on 
II May 1975: 
For the first time in a year someone has grasped the nettle. Yesterday's decision by the Full Bench must rank as one of its finest decisions. 
The decision of 10 May 1975 granted full wage indexation. Supporters of wage indexation in 1975 saw it as being a weapon against unemployment and inflation. But since then the Government has opposed wage indexation on every occasion and has sought to frustrate the trade union and Australian Council of Trade Union cases, culminating in the recent demands that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission should discount the effects of the personal tax cuts, which the Prime Minister claims will be worth $406m to 1 July this year, should discount the consumer price index for the increased petrol prices and should discount it for the effects of devaluation. The Prime Minister argued yesterday that these tax cuts were worth some $406m to 1 July. He said that they would stimulate the economy in a way similar to what was being called for by  Mr Witterveen  of the International Monetary Fund, that is, calling for industrial countries to adopt more expansionary economic policies. But how could these tax cuts be stimulatory? The average weekly wage at the end of December 1977 was $205.50. The tax cut was worth $3.25 a week to a person on that wage. The net loss, to a person earning the national average wage as a result of the national wage case decision last week, was $2.15 a week. So 65 per cent of the so called consumer stimulus in those tax cuts was taken away as a result of the wage decision. 
The Government puts the simplistic and spurious argument that all increases are highly inflationary and that this in turn results in further unemployment. If this equation were true- and I remind the House that the real national average wage has been reduced by more than $ 13 a week in the past two years- if the Government's argument were true, the level of unemployment should have fallen. But the level of unemployment has not fallen. It has increased by at least 163,000 in the last two years. The honourable member for Macarthur commented that the size of the work force has increased in the last two years. I can assure him that, despite the increase in the potential work force resulting from additional persons attempting to join the work force or seeking employment for the first time, the size of the work force is down by some 36,000. 1 know that factors other than wage cuts affect the economic scene. One is the degree to which this Government has been cutting government expenditure. Obviously that has been a contributing factor to the leap of 163,000 in the level of unemployment. I certainly argue that the reductions in real wages are also a major factor to be considered. 
Let me illustrate how successful the Government has been in reducing the real level of wages. In December 1975 the national average weekly wage stood at $166.90. In December 1 977 it was $205.50, an increase of 23. 1 per cent. In the same period- the eight quarters from December 1975 to September 1977- the consumer price index rose by 26.8 per cent. If full indexation had been applied in that period the national average weekly wage in December 1 977 would have been $2 1 7, that is, $ 1 1 .50 more than its present level. If one takes into account last week's decision, the national average weekly wage would have been $13.65 higher. Yesterday  Mr Ron  Fry, the national director of the Metal Trades Association, argued that the shortage of skilled tradesmen could seriously hamper economic recovery, particularly in the metal trades area which is the biggest sector of industry in the country. One little wonders at this situation when one considers the falling value of wages in the metal trades. Let us examine this position. In January 1976 the award weekly wage in the metal trades industry was $1 14.60 with an over award payment of $32, making a total weekly wage of $146.60. Today the over award payment has not risen- it is still at $32- and the total weekly wage on average is $178.30. If full indexation had been applied to award wages in the metal trades industry the average weekly average wage would now be $152.43 instead of $146.30. If full indexation had been applied to all total metal trades industry wages the average total wage would now be $195 instead of $178. The Government has robbed Australia's skilled metal workers of over $ 17 a week. It is disgraceful that this same Government which screws workers' wages has smugly handed out sinecures for favours rendered and hands out $27 a week in tax cuts to workers on $500 a week. 
Many Australian workers in the steel industry and in the rural sector earn wages of about $ 145 a week. They pay $18 a week in taxation and Medibank commitments. That leaves them with a pitiful disposable income of $127 a week. Many skilled tradesmen earning that $178 a week have dependent wives and children and pay $25 a week in tax, $9.60 for Medibank private and $1.34 for Medibank Extras B. They are lucky to have a disposable income of $142 a week out of which they must pay rent or, perhaps a housing loan of up to $40 or $50 a week, and meet the cost of food, education, clothing, entertainment and all the rest. No wonder the building industry is in a slump; no wonder the motor car industry also is in a slump and suffering record losses. The consumer led recovery is a joke. We need a national wages policy, not stubborn flatfooted opposition to wage indexation which is aimed at compensating for price increases that have already occurred. Such a policy should be based on full automatic quarterly indexation of the consumer price index to all wages up to the national average wage for the preceding quarter. After all, we do not have to give immediate effect to full indexation on very high incomes. Later it should not be too hard to make any periodical adjustments which may be appropriate. 
I am concerned not about the so-called fat cats. I am concerned about the 82 per cent of workers who are on award wages of less than the national average wage. This Government seems to carry an abiding hatred of these workers- the backbone of our society- and blames their meagre wage adjustments as a prime cause of unemployment. Now the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  is saying - 
-The misrepresentations and platitudes ladled out to the electorate and to the Parliament by the Prime Minister (Malcolm Fraser) and his Cabinet have found no clearer expression than in the section of the Governor-General's Speech relating to security matters, where he said: 
My Government has accepted the basic conclusions of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. The functions, responsibilities and powers of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, which have been reviewed, will be clearly defined by legislation. 
I refer the House to that section of the amendment that says that the Government has neglected to provide firm guarantees for the protection of civil liberties by legislation enactment within the powers of the Australian Government. 
It is very depressing to note the hypocritical manner in which this reactionary and authoritarian Government pays Up service to the civil liberties and rights of the Australian people. The Prime Minister announced to this Parliament in October last year and also in a letter to the Premier of South Australia in January of this year that the recommendations of the Hope report would be used as the basis for a sweeping range of reforms and amendments to the Australian Security and Intelligence Organisation Act. The Hope report provides no basis for reform of ASIO. Had the Government given careful consideration to the civil liberties and democratic rights and freedoms of the Australian people in this matter it would have rejected outright the substance of the recommendations of the Hope report. The report is the inadequate and sorry climax to the suspicions, the abuses and the troubles which have plagued ASIO since its formation in 1948-49. There is an old saying that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely. 
Before exposing the inadequacies of  Mr Justice  Hope's recommendations, let me examine some of the abuses of power as outlined in his report regarding ASIO's operations. In paragraph 1 1 4 in the second report he said: 
The inspection of hundreds of files and the examination of numbers of witnesses, including officers of ASIO, have satisfied me that some security assessments it has provided have been wrong. 
In paragraph 116 of volume 1 of the fourth report  Mr Justice  Hope said in relation to 'particular principles of propriety, including legality, to which ASIO should have regard in fulfilling its functions' that 'material before me establishes that there have been departures by ASIO from these principles'.  Mr Justice  Hope accuses ASIO of acting with impropriety and illegality. Indeed, it is particularly damning that  Mr Justice  Hope should make the startling statement that over many years ASIO has been allowed to operate without guidelines or questions of propriety. The Hope report makes no contribution whatsoever to changing this state of affairs. Propriety, it seems, plays little part in ASIO's operations. In the fourth volume of the report  Mr Justice  Hope went on to say: 
I have discovered in the course of my inquiry . . . that despite control procedures, many ASIO personnel in fact have had access to files, sometimes without adhering to proper procedures, and at other times without any sufficient need to know. 
Is there no limit to the lengths to which the forces of reaction in this country will go in relation to what they define as national security or as being in the national interest? Later I will examine more closely what is meant by 'national security' and 'national interest'. 
I refer briefly to the report of  Mr Acting  Justice White into the operations of the South Australian Special Branch of the Police Department which, of course, correctly resulted in the dismissal of the South Australian Commissioner of Police.  Mr Justice  White found that there were a number of irregularities in the South Australian Special Branch. He is reported as having found that: . . . a mass of records (indeed, the greater part of Special Branch records) relating to matters, organisations and persons having no connection whatsoever with genuine security risks . . . In most substantial dossiers, it can be seen that there has been movement of information to and from ASIO . . . 
Files and index cards existed on all ALP candidates and elected members, ('some of it is offensively inaccurate'), on associated Labor Party organisations for young people and university students, on the ACTU and personalities on its executive . . . 
Other files include information on homosexuals; Eastern and Orthodox Church groups; worker participation movements; campaigns against racial discrimination; Persons involved in divorce law reform . . . 
Such activities were a series of over zealous reactions by the Special Branch of the South Australian Police. The reaction of the Prime Minister to the tragic Hilton bomb blast would appear to be perfectly in line with this Government's attitude. The compiling of select files regarding public security can only be assured by spying on lawabiding individuals. The Prime Minister has been consistently reacting to the Hilton blast as though it provided evidence of the arrival of international style terrorism in Australia. There is no logical basis for such an assumption. Even  Mr Justice  Hope was constrained to say in his fourth  report,  volume I, paragraph 90: 
Much violent action- including bombing and shooting- is, of course, simply criminal in nature, and is a matter for the appropriate State police force. 
The involvement of any other organ of the State- that is, ASIO and /or the military- should, according to  Mr Justice  Hope, 'be concerned only with politically motivated terrorism'. A definition of 'terrorism' proper must, in the view of  Mr Justice  Hope, include: 
The act or threat of force designed to terrorise to achieve political ends. 
An article in the  National Times  of 20 February 1978, when referring to the Hilton bombing, stated: 
No responsibility has been claimed by any terrorist organisation . . . Well-placed security officials say there is no direct evidence to link the bombing with any international terrorist groups, or with the first stage of an attempt to intimidate the Federal Government by generating hysteria through a series of IRA-type bombings in Sydney. 
In short, the real political repercussions of the Hilton blast, as distinct from the personal tragedy, have been the questions raised about civil liberties and individual rights through the gross over-reaction of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister's reaction has ranged from the calling out of the military to a paranoic obsession with security- an obsession which may threaten the liberties of the Australian people. Yet, even  Mr Justice  Hope recognised that even in times of national threat care must be taken with civil liberties. In his fourth report,  Mr Justice  Hope said: 
The degree of restriction (of the individual) which is justified is determined by the degree of the danger. In time of peace, with no imminent danger, little if any restrictions are justified. 
By the same token, no one wishes to see workers or Heads of Government blown to pieces. However, in setting himself up as a self-styled security supremo, in mounting the largest ever domestic security operation in Australia's history, the Prime Minister has brought this possibility closer to realisation. 
The most dangerous of  Mr Justice  Hope's recommendations are those which seek to provide legislative confirmation of the already dictatorial powers of the Director-General of ASIO. The Director-General is an appointed officialthat is, he is ostensibly a servant of the Government. Yet,  Mr Justice  Hope had the gall to devote eight paragraphs of his report to a consideration of the extent to which the DirectorGeneral may be subject to ministerial control. At the end of this consideration  Mr Justice  Hope came to the amazing conclusion that: 
The question to be resolved is the extent, if any, to which the Director-General should be subject to ministerial direction. 
Let us see how far the powers relating to the Director-General of ASIO would go if the Government took the recommendations contained in the Hope report to force of law. Section 4 of the recommendations states: 
The Director-General shall, in the performance of his duties and exercise of his powers under the Act, be subject to the direction and control of the Minister except in the following respects: 
Where any particular intelligence or matter is or might be relevant to security for the purpose of the Act. 
It also makes the amazing assertion that there ought to be no accountability to Parliament and the people whatsoever. The Hope report recommends in these terms: 
Although in some democracies there are parliamentary committees for the supervision of the security service, such an arrangement would be inappropriate in Australia. For similar reasons, the idea of an annual report to Parliament is not supported. 
What a slap in the face for the people of this country. This Government, in accepting these recommendations, if indeed it does, will in fact be seeking to deny both the people and their elected representatives in Parliament control over the activities of ASIO. Rather, this reactionary Government seeks to place ASIO above the law, above the people and above the Parliament. It seeks to place the Director-General of ASIO-- 
The honourable member for Hume would not know anything about civil liberties. This Government seeks powers for ASIO to legalise the use of bugs, the breaking, entering and searching of premises and the opening of mail. In accepting the recommendations of the Hope report this Government plainly seeks to smother the aspirations of the Australian people for a greater degree of civil liberties. It does this by accepting the line that the elected 
Minister responsible for the administration of ASIO will have no right to seize or otherwise inspect ASIO files other than at the discretion of the Director-General- an appointed official with no direct responsibility to either the people or the Parliament. 
I return to the South Australian affair. Let us examine what really happened in the South Australian affair. At the moment a Royal Commission is inquiring into the dismissal of the Commissioner of Police,  Mr Salisbury,  for refusing to make files available to the Premier and for telling lies to the Premier. There is no greater condemnation of  Mr Salisbury  and what he stands for than his own words when he appeared before the Commission yesterday when he was reported as saying that files on governors were probably kept simply because they were at one time governors.  Mr Salisbury  said that a file on  Sir Mark  Oliphant had probably been kept because he had marched in an anti- Vietnam war demonstration. That statement is a pretty fair indication of the type of people this Government would put in control of civil liberties in this country. It is a pretty fair indication of the state of mind of people whom honourable members on the other side of the House would put in control of organisations such as the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, which has direct power over the lives of people in this country. 
I wish to raise one further point and it relates to the statement made by the  Speaker  of this House on Thursday, 2 March regarding the security of Parliament. First of all, to the best of my knowledge the Australian Labor Party was not consulted about this matter, members of the Opposition were not consulted, and the staff of the House were not consulted. I know there is a great deal of worry about the fact that wives of members must now identify themselves and cannot enter Parliament House freely. Visitors coming to see members about electoral business have to give their names and addresses. Passes will be issued to staff and visitors. 
-There is a limit to how far this can be taken. In the interests of liberty I refer honourable members to the words of a great libertarian, that great Roman orator Cicero who lived almost 2,000 years ago.  His  eloquent defence of the free institutions of Republican Rome uncannily represents the present position in which the Parliament seems to find itself. He said: 
But let us leave the past . . . Defend that if you can! Explain why the Senate is surrounded by a ring of men with arms; why my listeners include gangsters of yours, sword in hand: Why the doors of the temple of Concord are closed ... I do these things in self-defence, says Antony. But it is better to die a thousand deaths than be unable to live in one's own community without an armed guard. You don't need guards- Antony- you need the goodwill of your own people. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I remind him that he told the House last week that a reason for calling for new tenders for the Australian Bureau of Statistics computer was that the shortened tender process decided upon last December would disadvantage Facom Australia Ltd and favour IBM Australia Ltd. I ask: Does the Prime Minister agree that that statement is in direct contradiction with a telex message from Facom to the Government on 8 February in which Facom agreed to the shortened tender process and stated that it felt that it was in the public interest? Will the Prime Minister now explain to the House that contradiction, given that he has had six days to think about it? 
-The discussion paper certainly contains one basic truth. As mentioned by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in his statement, it is provocative in many respects. Certainly, its conclusions are arguable. I will return to the conclusions in a moment. First, I refer to paragraph 12 of the paper which sets out the way in which health costs have risen since 1 96 1 . In that year health costs totalled $700m. In 1974-75 they were up to $4, 129m. In 1975-76 they rose further to $5,235m. In 1976-77 they were up to $6,254m. These figures are significant. They prove beyond doubt that health costs had taken off long before Medibank was instituted. The facts are there. In 1974-75, the year before Medibank commenced operations, health costs had increased to $4.1 billion from $700min 1961 
In the first year of Medibank operations health costs rose by 26 per cent. After 1 October 1976, when the Government emasculated the Medibank service, health costs still rose by 20 per cent. That means that if it was the Government's intention to reduce health costs significantly by its surgery of 1 October 1976 it was singularly unsuccessful. Of course, its measures were designed to do more than that. They were designed to drive people back to the private funds. In that aim they were successful. At present 55 per cent of contributors throughout Australia belong to private funds or to Medibank Private. Some 32 per cent belong to Medibank Standard. Some 12 per cent belong to Medibank Standard in addition to contributing to hospital table 1. But the moves were certainly unsuccessful in controlling costs, if that was the central issue. Costs went up, as I have said, by 20 per cent, to $6.2 billion. All that happened was that the Government was successful in transferring health costs to the contributor. The conclusions of this report further that concept. I believe that the report is aimed at protecting the system of fee-for-service payment to doctors. 
The paper concludes with three basic points. It states that we should retard the rates of expansion in the use of medical and hospital services, reduce the rate of growth of government expenditure on health services and reduce the rate of growth in health insurance contribution rates. The report purports to outline in depth how this can be achieved. I disagree with most of the contentions. The first point that is canvassed is a system of cost sharing which is a euphemism to increase the percentage of medical bills paid by the patient. The paper suggests that we should go back to the bad old days prior to Medibank when patients and contributors paid some 30 per cent to 40 per cent of their medical bills for specialist, general practitioner and ancillary services. Let us look at what can happen in that situation. Since Medibank we have been successful to a degree in providing for all but 1 5 per cent of bills to be paid with a supposed maximum payment of $5 if doctors charge the common fee. The problem now is that many doctors and specialists do not charge the common fee. 
Let me digress for a moment and tell the House about a case that I came across the other day. A young couple came into my office with a heavy bill for an abdominal operation performed in Sydney by a specialist. It was for $700. They had a cheque from a private insurance fund for $325. So they had to pay $375. The main part of that Bill related to item 6669. I am told that the common fee or standard fee for that item is $200. The surgeon's fee was $400. The paper actually urges that the patient or the contributor should pay a higher percentage of his hospital bills and has the audacity- the absolute gall- to argue against allowing patients and contributors to insure against an increased gap. I find that most peculiar in light of the fact that many surgeons, specialists and general practitioners today are greatly exceeding the common or standard fee as I have shown. 
The second point canvassed at length is that perhaps we should increase the Medibank Standard levy or at least increase the ceiling of $300 per year. There is no case at all for increasing the Medibank Standard levy. Contributions are already indexed to wages. The third point with which I find a great deal of disagreement is the canvassing of the so-called deductible system where contributors may be asked to pay a certain fixed amount of the total medical costs for an individual or a family for the year. What this really does is reduce health insurance to the level of motor vehicle and other types of insurance. Certainly the view of the Austraiian Medical Association, which for reasons other than mine, is against that proposition. 
I refer the House to a report that appeared in a major national newspaper concerning remarks of  Dr Lionel  Wilson, the Vice-President of the Australian Medical Association.  Dr Wilson  said that he was strongly opposed to gimmicks such as front-end deductibles, no-claim bonuses and limits on the number of medical services for which benefits could be claimed. The report stated: 

 Dr Wilson said schemes like the front end deductible, under which the patient pays the first fixed amount- say $100- of his medical bills, would have the same unhealthy deterring effect as increasing the gap. It would fall hardest on the poor and chronically ill who could least afford it, he said. 
Another media scribe was more explicit and perhaps more humorous when he said: 
Think of the front-end deductible scheme as a sort of front-end off-loader. It off-loads the initial cost of medical services from the funds on to the patient. 
The AMA has given its reasons for opposing such a system. I oppose it for the same reasons as the honourable member for Prospect  Dr Klugman,  who is the Opposition spokesman on health. Both suggestions- cost sharing and deductibility- may well have the effect of deterring people who are showing symptoms of a serious illness from seeking early medical attention. 
Another two points are most controversial. The paper makes the amazing assertion that hospital capital expenditure ought to be reduced because there are too many hospital beds and if surplus beds are available there will be a tendency to fill those beds at all costs. Therefore health expenditure will be increased. A similar agrument is advanced to illustrate that too many doctors are being produced today by universities. These conclusion are surprising especially in relation to hospital beds. I would argue against the claim that there are too many hospital beds. That may be the case in some areas. But we certainly do not have too many beds in the Cunningham electorate. I can assure the Minister of that fact. Even if we were starting to produce more hospital beds and doctors than the present system can use, I think it would be far better to start employing those surplus doctors as salaried staff in hospitals, outpatient departments and medical centres throughout the nation rather than to talk about reducing the number of doctors just to protect the present fee for service system. I agree with the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  who said that there are better ways to pay doctors than by the fee for service system. The report of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission canvasses at length alternative methods. Basically, it deals with four systems. The first is the fee for service system. I will not go into that system any further at the moment. It mentions, secondly, the capitation system, which is the system used at this time in the United Kingdom. It canvasses next the case payment system being used now in West Germany. Finally it comments on what I would argue to be the best system of all; gradual movement to a system of salaried medical practitioners and specialists working on a sessional basis in public hospitals. I will explain to the House exactly how the systems work in the United Kingdom and West Germany. The United Kingdom uses the capitation system whereby the doctor is paid a fixed sum for each period during which he takes responsibility for a patient on a panel of people for which he is contracted to service. The report of the Hospital and Health Services Commission states: 
In West Germany, the Association of Health Funds remunerates the doctor in accordance with the standard fee schedules after he has submitted the patient's 'sick certificate' which records the individual's services rendered. Each doctor is allocated points in respect of these services, and the average number of points per doctor is calculated each quarter. If the doctor's average is at or below the national average, he receives full payment, but if it is above he may receive a cut-back. 
The report does not recommend the merits of these types of systems. There is a need to reduce overall health costs- not just to transfer the burden to the user- blaming the public for using services ordered by doctors who are motivated by fee for service payments- and I refer to services supplied in many cases by private pathology centres and x-ray centres which duplicate hospital services. What is wrong with salaried medical services in hospitals? Universities are run by governments and paid for by taxpayers. Why are doctors any more sacrosanct and entitled more than any other skilled workers trained in government technical education institutions to set their own fees? The Australian Medical Association and the General Practitioners Society have the Government well and truly bluffed- and so, too, have the private health insurance funds. Let us have no more of this nonsensical humbug about the patients and contributors being to blame for rising health costs. The honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  fell for this trap because he is afraid to examine the root causes of the problem. Fancy blaming patients! How can a layman assess whether tests and services ordered by doctors and specialists are necessary? The main deficiency of this report- the last, expiring act of the now defunct Hospital and Health Service Commission- is that it seeks to restrain rising costs by transferring them to the patient while making no recommendations regarding replacing the expensive fee for service system of paying general practitioners, specialists, surgeons and private ancillary centres with a long range plan of expanding salaried medical services. As a pre-requisite to such a restructuring, the Government should abandon its misguided attempts to prop up the 150 odd private insurance funds which duplicate each others services. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Is the Australian Army currently seriously short of funds for transport equipment and the movement of personnel? Are serious backlogs occurring in the movement of stores and so on? Will additional funds be appropriated to enable the day-to-day functioning of the Army to continue for the remainder of the financial year? 
I ask the Minister for Finance: Is it a fact that civilian employment declined by 1.2 per cent in the three months to February 1 978? Does the Minister still believe that the Budget forecast of growth in employment is actually occuring? What rate of employment growth is the target of the present Government? Will the Government increase capital expenditure grants to the States commensurate with their expressed desires for achieving employment growth? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Hodges)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-The two most serious problems in the nuclear fuel cycle with which the Australian Labor Party is concerned relate to the disposal of nuclear waste and the impossibility at the present time for the Australian Government to ensure that Australian uranium will not be used in the manufacture of nuclear weapons. The policy of the Australian Labor Party, which we on these benches represent, relates to both of those points. The problem with this Bill is that it does not deal with waste disposal in any meaningful way. In fact, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  saw fit to mislead this chamber the last time he spoke on this matter. On 25 August 1977 the Prime Minister said: 
The technology for the handling, solidification and safe storage of the high level of radioactive liquids exists. It is now being developed to a commercial scale. This technology has not hitherto been put into full scale commercial use as the quantity of commercially produced waste has not warranted a fully commercial process. 
What nonsense! The fact is that waste from conventional reactors, as distinct from fast breeders, produces very lethal liquid waste which includes the element Plutonium 239. It has been said before that Plutonium 239 remains virulent to human life for some quarter of a million to half a million years. It has a half life of some 24,000 years and this, of course, means that it remains injurious to human life for some half a million years. 
The honourable member might think it is a lot of rubbish but it is a fact. Despite Government supporters saying that there is no problem regarding the disposal of this waste, there is a very great problem because right now there are many millions of gallons of waste awaiting either final disposal or reprocessing. I relate to the Committee the comments of the General Accounting Office of the United States Energy Research and Development Commission in regard to this matter. That organisation is the successor to the United States Atomic Energy Commission. It stated that there are some 265 million gallons of high-level liquid waste from the reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel. The concentration of radioactivity in such waste is so great that if it were pumped into holes drilled deep into the earth- as one disposal scheme proposed- it would melt the surrounding rock. This waste still is not finally disposed of. It is being contained in steel tanks awaiting final disposal. This method of temporary storage is not safe. The report of the General Accounting Office continued: 
Since the 1940s, eighteen Hanford's tanks have spilled 430,000 gallons of high-level waste. From 1956 through 1958, 3 1 million gallons of partially decontaminated but still highly radioactive high-level waste were deliberately poured into the ground. 
Regulations are tighter now but the waste is still getting away. In 1973, a Hanford leak that was undetected for fortyeight days spilled 1 1 5,000 gallons. 
That is the situation which exists at the moment. I repeat: There is no known way to dispose of nuclear waste. It has been said that it may be possible- this was stated in the Fox report- to dispose of waste after vitrification in geologically stable formations. The fact is, however, that on this planet there are no geologically stable formations. Ten million years ago, during the tertiary period, Central Australia was under water. About that time the Kosciusko uplift created the Southern Highlands of New South Wales. Ten million years is quite a long time, probably longer than nuclear waste would remain harmful to human life, but we certainly are talking about a period of some half a million years. Half a million years ago man's predecessor, Pithecanthropus, the ape man, roamed the earth. 
That is so. Look across the chamber! We are talking about the length of time it has taken man to develop. I point out to honourable members that no civilisation has ever lasted more than 3,000 years. I refer, of course, to the ancient Egyptian civilisation. There have been four ice ages in the last half million years with the sea rising and falling some 300 feet. Thirty thousand years ago, one-tenth of the time this waste will remain radioactive, Australia was joined to Asia. This is the type of geological situation in which honourable members on the other side of the chamber tell us nuclear waste can be stored for half a million years. The point is, as  Mr Justice  Fox himself finally admits, the theory that this waste can be stored in geologically stable formations is extremely debatable. On this planet nothing is geologically stable over a long period of time. 
In the final few minutes available to me I wish to speak about the other matter that I raised earlier, that of the prevention of the use of AusTralian uranium to proliferate nuclear weapons. The Prime Minister said in the speech to which I have already referred that he was satisfied with the safeguards arrangements. Let me list those arrangements. It is said that we will sell only to countries which have signed the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, which have accepted the International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards procedures and with whom we have reached a bilateral agreement and that the present nuclear nations will be required not to use Australian uranium to manufacture weapons. But apparently the Prime Minister has missed the very saliant point that even though those nations may not use our uranium to manufacture weapons the arrangements will release to them other stocks of uranium with which to manufacture weapons. The point I am making about the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty is that any nation can bale out of it on three months' notice. Any nation can bale out of the IAEA safeguards on six months' notice. Then it is said that we will have this bilateral agreement on which to fall back. Such countries as Iran and the Philippines would pull out of that agreement at any time if it suited them and then where would we be? 
-They are stable all right; they are run as dictatorships. Yet this Government is prepared to sell uranium to them. The IAEA safeguards themselves are most unsatisfactory. The IAEA currently has 79 inspectors of whom about 50 are engaged on, on site inspections. There are in the words of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  '194 nuclear power units operating in 21 countries'. The safeguards are basedhonourable members should listen to this- on what might be termed a retrospective risk factor. Let me explain that. According to the IAEA reports, instruments are located at key points in the country's nuclear fuel cycle and the results are compared with that country's accounting records. A serious discrepancy may be evidence that diversion has occurred. Honourable members should note the words 'has occurred'. The diversion is detected after it has occurred. By any criterion this must be unsatisfactory. The safeguards are operating under the principle: Don't do it or you may be caught'. But then, of course, the horse is out of the gate and it is too late to shut the gate; that is the fact of the matter. If we are concerned to assist attempts by the IAEA to impose more stringent safeguards on the recalcitrant Europeans- to name one potentive customer- if we wish to force customer nations to make greater efforts in and direct more finance towards waste disposal technology a moratorium policy serves our purpose better than an export policy. This would enable our voice to be listened to. It would not exclude us from attempts to strengthen safeguards and explore waste disposal techniques. The Prime Minister is relying on bilateral agreements and the present inadequate IAEA procedures which I have outlined. He is relying on faith rather than on hard-headed analysis. I know that the minds of honourable members opposite are closed and that their course is set but we are not talking to them tonight; we are talking to the men and women and the trade unionists of Australia - 

 -Mr Chairman, I join with the call of my colleagues for the Government to withdraw this legislation rather than to hold up that area which is applicable to the States and of current concern to them and simply push ahead with the various Bills that apply to the Northern Territory. It is of little wonder that the State governments are denouncing this package of legislation, particularly the amendments to the Atomic Energy Act and the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill. While the Atomic Energy Act grabs overall power over this unfortunate area of uranium mining - 
I certainly do not trust the Queensland Government. I do not trust the Victorian Government either for that matter, although it seems to be on the side of the angels on this matter. It is certainly not on the side of this Government. The Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill abrogates responsibility for the actual administration of these Codes to the States, but it does not spell out how they should perform their duties. How is it suggested that they should perform their duties on nuclear codes administration? Should it be through the departments of labour and industry, through consumer affairs bureaus, perhaps? Where is the appropriate structure in State administration at the moment? No wonder they are concerned. It is easy enough to legislate but it is a different matter to administer. 
In its usual arrogant manner this Government assumes ultimate control through clause 13 of this Bill with all its anti-civil liberties connotations. The Government wants the best of both worlds. Nuclear safety codes are either a State matter or they are not. The Government, as I have said, wants the best of all worlds- ultimate power without responsibility for the administration. 
I cannot see how it can do anything else but withdraw this legislation and redraft it rather than to seek to get around the matter simply by saying that it will not promulgate it for a while, having regard to the States.  Mr Hamer  in this morning's Press gave this legislation the greatest roast by a Liberal Premier ever. Amongst other things he said: 
I believe that the Bill itself is deficient in failing to provide machinery for full consultation with the States in formulating proper controls for nuclear activities. 
The Minister concerned in South Australia,  Mr Corcoran,  was equally critical. He said: 

 Mr Fraser 's decision to pass the Bills but proclaim them only in the Northern Territory was no real compromise. 
Instead it is an admission by the Prime Minister that the Bills pose a serious threat to State rights. 
Then of course there was further criticism. One Professor Kerr in South Australia said: 
Secrecy provisions in the legislation infringe basic civil rights and penal clauses for defence purposes are not appropriate for a civilian industry. 
In the light of all this criticism, much of it from the State colleagues of honourable members opposite, how can the Government simply go ahead and attempt to get around the matter by saying that it will proceed with the legislation, amend it a little, set it aside, then confer with the States at a Premiers Conference and tidy up the legislation. Yet the legislation is still good enough to be enacted in the Northern Territory? What an illogical position to take. I rest my case at this time and I urge the Government to think twice about the matter and to withdraw this obnoxious legislation immediately. 
-I want to follow through the remarks of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  It has been pointed out to me that whilst the Federal Government preaches a great deal about federalism it does very little to put its preaching into effect. I should point out to all honourable members that the recent Labor Government was much better at carrying out a federalist policy than these people who so ardently espouse the concept of federalism. It has also been pointed out to me that when it comes to the implementation of programs to fund community health centres, Aboriginal welfare programs and the like, the Labor Government had full consultation with the States. 
I am simply trying to point out the reason why there is a great deal of difficulty with the States at the moment. The reason is that these people who espouse federalism, as I said, are quite willing to get away from their ideals altogether when it comes to the crunch. One particular problem bothers me. I will be very succinct in stating it. It is one of the main reasons that the States are worried at the moment. I refer to the question of what ultimately will happen to local waste disposal- not overseas at the end of the nuclear fuel cycle- but here in Australia. I refer to the problem of the final disposal of the mill tailings. 
Yes,  Mr Chairman.  I was merely pointing out that I believe that one of the main reasons why the States are concerned about this legislation is that what will ultimately happen to the environment as a result of long term waste disposal in Australia has not been properly thought through. I think that that matter would have a great deal of relevance to what was in the minds of the leaders of the States. 
-I think it ought not to be proclaimed. I do not want to canvass your ruling,  Mr Chairman;  I simply wish to make the point that the tailings which will be disposed of here in Australia- in the Territory and ultimately in the States, if mining takes place in the States- will remain injurious to human life for 100,000 years. There is no way whatsoever that they will remain buried for 100,000 years. So I join with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and others who have spoken tonight. I stress very strongly the point that the Government should withdraw this legislation and redraft it in consultation with the States. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact, as reported on the program  PM  last night, that the Prime Minister flew to Melbourne on a VIP aircraft yesterday to visit his tailor and to attend a private wine tasting with  Mrs Fraser  and a Canadian friend? If not, could the Prime Minister inform the House why his Press secretary again is misleading the Press gallery? Does the Prime Minister feel that such activity is within the proper and correct range of use of VIP aircraft? 
-In all of this voluminous opposition to the retrospectivity provisions to which we have all been subjected lately, really the only possible valid argument is one expressed by the Opposition. Why were the amendments foreshadowed in that statement not brought forward in the Budget Sitting, as proposed by the Government? The Government has had ample knowledge of the extent of tax avoidance arrangements generally and of the extent of Curran arrangements in particular. For many months now it has known of that scheme and has had ample opportunity to announce clearly and unambiguously its intention to introduce appropriate amending legislation effective from the date of such announcement. Why has it not done so? It is the Government's clear responsibility promptly to amend the law if it produces undesired effects. If the Government chooses not to do so, having had notice of those effects, it has clearly failed in its responsibility. Those are the terms of one of the whinging, sanctimonious pleas putting the objections to the proposal to introduce retrospectivity and to outlaw the Curran scheme. 
That is the one major area where it is possible that these people have a case. I suppose they are at least entitled to ask- these silvertail supporters of the Government- why the Government did not act sooner. I think that is quite a valid question, because the Government has had some  2lA  years now to act. I will say little about the actual mechanics of the subterfuge schemes. From the time the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  dropped his proverbial bucket on 7 April it seems that every newspaper, periodical and lobbyist in Australia has had something to say about this. Let me just say that there is something really sick about a tax system in which, under the Curran scheme, after financial juggling with bonus shares being taken into account, a minor profit of $2,780 can be held by the so-called learned judiciary to be a loss of $188,000 for taxation purposes. Of course it is obvious that one has to be in the $100,000 plus bracket before it is practicable to seek the help of these parasitic promoters. One could go on md list all the quasi legal nonsense regarding bonus shares, share trading losses, deficits, stripping, abuse of averaging provisions and so on that these fertile minds have devised to defraud the national exchequer. Perhaps the most objectionable subterfuge is when charities, in addition to the public purse, are defrauded by use of the gift provisions scheme wherein a $10,000 gift provides only $120 to the charity concerned, puts some $1,400 into the pockets of the promoter and provides the rest as a tax saving to the original defrauder. This scheme, I am told, is especially designed to suit the needs of individual high income earners. 
The audacity and cheek of these super high income tax spivs is breathtaking. They have already been the beneficiaries of tax restructuring, at the expense of low and middle income earners, in the last Budget. One could say that their lack of appreciation is exceeded only by their arrogance. I refer to the regressive tax scales introduced in the last Budget of 32 per cent standard rate on income up to $16,000, 46 per cent on income to $32,000 and 60 per cent thereafter. This means- let me repeat this for the benefit of the people who are listening today- that a person earning $195 per week saved $2.95- a magnificent sum. For a person earning $500 a week the saving was $26.75. When we go a little higher to $1,000 per week, the saving is $74.82; on an income of $1,500 a week the saving is $99.82; and on an income of $2,000 a week the saving is $124.82. 
Why do these people have to resort to these nefarious activities? What could be more regressive and slanted against low and middle income earners who, in the main- this is the point- have little hope of doing anything else but meeting their full tax responsibilities? It is the very people who received these tax handouts in the last Budget who are the worst offenders against the nation's taxation laws. The  National Times  stated on 24 April: 
Over the past 1 8 months a large proportion of the volume has been achieved by processing incomes of people around the $100,000 to $250,000 mark. These are the small fry. 
Good heavens. They could not keep quiet so they brought themselves undone. The article continued: 
Because they were handled in large numbers in a sausage machine basis, they attracted too much attention. Many of them boasted and gave the secrets away- many in the tax avoidance industry are now looking to cater for clients who have much larger incomes to process over $ 1 m per year. 
So there we see what they think about it and about what is going to happen. As many Opposition speakers before me have said, we are canvassing legislation which would be retrospective on all counts to 1 July last year. As soon as these schemes are discovered the tax should be retrospective to the beginning of that financial year. I hope the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  will take note of this and perhaps be just a little more adventurous. Although we applaud the fact that he is going back to 16 August for the Curran scheme, let him be a little more adventurous and close off the loophole entirely. 
In the face of this massive tax evasion by shareholders and high income earners, how incongruous it is that wage earners and pensioners cannot escape paying tax on such items as- these are listed in the income tax return applicable to the poor old ordinary salary and wage earnerliving away from home allowances, travelling allowances, even tips they may receive in the course of their employment and interest on savings bank deposits, fixed deposits and credit union deposits. They cannot avoid paying tax on that income. It is certainly most unfair that low income earners and pensioners must pay income tax on interest earned from these ordinary savings, whilst Treasury has simultaneously tolerated such unmitigated embezzlement of taxpayers' funds as outlined in the Treasurer's speech on 7 April 1978. In a sense, ordinary wage and salary earners and pensioners have been subsidising these parasites. 
In a period of high inflation- I want the Treasurer to listen carefully to this- most interest rates are, of course, negative in the sense that when inflation at, say, 9 per cent per annum exceeds a 7 per cent interest rate, the investor's real capital is surely declining. Yet this interest rate, which is needed to preserve real capital value, is taxable when it is in no way at all real earnings. Pensioners, of course, are taxed on their pensions plus earnings when the additional weekly income of a couple exceeds approximately $29 or the yearly income exceeds approximately $1,500. As the means test still operates for those under 70 years of age, it is understandably common for many aged pensioners to invest their savings in accounts with lower interest rates in order to maintain tax viability and still qualify for a pension. 
However, when they accept the lower interest rate to qualify for a pension they are still taxed on the meagre interest earned. What a contrast to the leniency which has been extended to those tax avoiders working on a grand scale. It seems that until now Treasury policy has worked under the principle of the bigger the fiddle the more it is tolerated. There is a strong case that interest earnings on bank and credit union deposits to around $30,000 should be taxable only to the extent that the annual interest rate exceeds the annual inflation rate. 
Now that the Government and Treasury appear to have grasped the nettle on at least one aspect of tax evasion, they should also act to prevent tax evasion of another kind which occurs because of the Government's inaction. I refer to the failure of the Government to legislate to impose a resources or super tax on excessive profits made on the extraction of our non-renewable mineral and energy resources. For instance, the Government has reduced the coal export levy to $3.50 per tonne and is committed to removing it altogether in the next Budget. If it does so, it will ' be forgoing revenue to the extent of $200m a year. Where are the plans to replace it with a resources tax? By all means let the Government cut down on tax avoiders, but why allow tax avoidance of this kind by default? The Government has said that it is flirting with the idea of a resources tax to replace the crude oil levy of $3 per barrel and also a resources tax on uranium profits, if they ever get that industry off the ground; that is, if the new mines are ever developed. But it has expressed opposition to a super tax on other profitable mining developments such as coal mining. Why? If Utah Development Corporation sends $126m to its United States shareholders without paying a resources tax, it is just as serious a loss to the national Treasury as funds forgone from other types of tax avoidance. 
It is essential that a resources tax on profitable mining ventures be implemented at an appropriate after company tax threshold level of, say, 1 5 per cent, which would allow a fair rate of return on capital invested. After this level of profitability, a resources tax of some 70 per cent should be applied to these super profits. Utah enjoyed an inflated 32.6 per cent return on funds employed during 1976 and 36 per cent on funds employed during 1977. If a resources tax were applied at 15 per cent on investment threshold and 70 per cent thereafter, it would generate an extra $120m to $130m a year from Utah Development Corporation alone. That would be enough to finance in two years under public ownership the proposed Norwich Park Mine which has a stated capital development cost of $250m. The Government states it is cracking down on tax avoiders whose activities raid the national Exchequer. Let the Government now state exactly where it stands on this equally serious form of tax avoidance by default. Where does it stand on the matter of a super tax or resources tax on the minerals extraction industry, particularly the super profitable industries? 
I have searched in vain for a notification in Treasury statements and in the Treasurer's speech of a precise estimate of funds forgone as a result of these tax avoidance schemes. The Treasurer did give a Treasury estimate of $500m loss as a result of the Curran scheme claims made since 16 August last. This figure has been refuted by those who have their axes to grind as of course they would refute it. I refer to the promoters and the users of these subterfuges. I will take the Treasurer at his word. On this basis it is reasonable to estimate that the total yearly loss of the schemes outlined by the Treasurer on which he proposes to crack down is currently in the vicinity of $ 1 billion a year. The mind boggles at this figure and at the wastage of possible national achievement that it represents. As William Blake once said: 'What is now proved was only once imagined'. Take age pensions, for instance. What could we have done with this billion dollars a year? The estimated number of age pensioners during 1977-78 is 1.263 million. This $1 billion worth of wasted revenue would represent, in terms of income redistributed to pensioners, another $15 a week or a 30 per cent increase to every age pensioner in Australia. Would that not be a significant contribution to total Australian consumer power and of real benefit to economic recovery? 
We are constantly told by the Government of the need for overseas investment and equity in national development projects. Take the North West Shelf natural gas development and exploration plan. It is said that total capital expenditure will be in the vicinity of $3 billion, virtually all of which will come from overseas with a significant loss of Australian control. We are told that the $3 billion will generate some $30 billion worth of revenue over some 25 years with a total estimated profit to the companies involved of some $8 billion to $10 billion. I oppose this plan as it now stands mainly because I believe that it is against the national interest to export some 60 per cent of the total yield of the North West gas fields when there are clear indications that Australian oil and natural gas reserves will be severely diminished within the next 50 to 60 years. The real point of my argument is that if the Government had cracked down on these tax avoiders when it first came to office over two years ago we would already have saved twothirds of the estimated capital expenditure of developing this North West gas development under the name of the Government. 
One can go on. The enormity of this haemorrhage of national funds can be understood when one considers that in the last Budget a total of only $390m was made available to the States for welfare housing which funds State housing commissions and terminating building societies. 
What a boost it would be to the national building industry and the economy if only one-half of those total tax avoidance funds had been spent on additional payments to the States for housing. Let us go further into this wistful examination of what might have been. In the last Budget $844m was allocated to transport and communication, including a total of only $478m in grants to the States for roads in 1977-78 and a total of only $92m for rail transport expenditure. Yet tax avoidance accounts for $1 billion a year. With that money we could have more than doubled our expenditure on transport. 
The importance of this matter should be stressed, for a marked feature of the current Australian depression is the decline in domestic consumption of steel. For instance, total Australian domestic consumption of new railway lines produced at the Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd Port Kembla works, which are within my electorate, has fallen from 116,000 tonnes two years ago to 60,000 tonnes in the year ended 3 1 March 1 978. One can argue logically that the loss of revenue due to tax avoidance contributed to continued stagnation in steel and the economy. We in the Opposition give qualified support to the Government's measures, as far as they go, to clamp down on these measures but we want the Government to go further, as outlined by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  I conclude my speech on this note: I certainly hope that the friends of these economic vandals, who are so obvious in the Government's ranks in this place and in the Senate, are unsuccessful in giving comfort to the silvertails who have continued to wax fat on the national exchequer and on the backs of the Australian workers. 
It is just as we suspected. Behind the solid front of supposed firmness to deal with these tax avoiders we see the ranks of the Government beginning to crack. I might say that I am quite surprised to see the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  join the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  in expressing their so-called worries about the introduction of retrospective legislation to outlaw the Curran scheme. The right honourable member for Lowe used the argument that no one should be penalised for taking action which was legal at the time he took it. He said that this was a fundamental rule of law. I remind him that there are two principles at stake in regard to this matter, not one. I think the article I am about to refer to sums up the fundamental contradiction between the two basic sets of principles involved. Let me draw the attention of the House to what it says. The first argument is along the lines of that put by the right honourable member for Lowe. The article reads: 
But when Governments start to make laws retrospective, people cease to know exactly where they stand. Might not a precedent set in the area of tax law be used in future to justify a retrospective change that affected not just pocket-books, but basic civil rights? 
Of course, this article goes on to put the argument against that equally as succinctly. It states: 
The best reply is that the question is not one of principle versus expediency, but of two principles in conflict. The first principle is the rule of law, the second is that the tax burden should be shared equitably. 
The fundamental issue at stake is whether everyone in the country from shareholders to wage earners and small businessmen should take an equal share of tax responsibility according to their incomes. Of course, these people have not been taking their equal share of responsibility. If we want to do anything about it and if we want to be effective in this matter the way to defeat the tax avoiders is to implement full retrospectivity, not only in the case of the Curran scheme back to 16 August but full retrospectivity for all schemes back to 1 July, the beginning of the financial year. That is the way in which we can defeat these tax cheats. That is the way that we can defeat the schemes as they appear in future. We should implement the principles involved in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Bonython,  Dr Blewett;  that is, that the measures to outlaw future operations should be backdated to the beginning of the financial year in which the intention to legislate is announced. 
We in the Opposition are fed up with this whingeing sort of humbug to which we have been subjected in this spate of sanctimonious correspondence we have received urging us all to oppose retrospectivity in the case of the Curran scheme. They talk about the rule of law and they talk about legality. But in the final analysis, it is not a question of legality, is it? It is a question of politics; it is a question of social acceptance; and it is a question of power. That is what it is all about. That is what the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is exercising; he is exercising power. At least he is showing that he is capable, if he is pushed far enough, to turn on the silvertail supporters of his own Government. That is exactly what he is doing. So long as he is doing it we will give our qualified support. 
No. There is no question about that. I do not aspire to be a silvertail 
It has just been pointed out to me that a silvertail is a person who has been exploiting those schemes and earning perhaps $ 1 00,000 or more a year. I agree with the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  that I will never be in that category. It has been said- I referred to this during the debate on the second reading- that amount of money involved is probably about $1 billion a year. I am not going to go over what was said the other day. I ask honourable members to think of the possibilities inherent in an income redistribution from these fat cats who have been robbing the Exchequer. We could redistribute that income. If we collected this income we could give every age pensioner in the country another $15 a week or a 30 per cent increase. What a tremendous boost that would be to the economy because they would be able to go out and spend it. They could buy consumer goods, manufactured goods. I also point out that at the last Federal election - 
I wish to point out, as has been said in this House and as we said in that campaign, that one of our fundamental policies was selected increases in government expenditure in the right areas. We are talking about $800m, honourable members opposite may remember, and of course the cry we heard was: 'Where will you find the money?' Now we know where we will find the money. We will make these laws retrospective to last year, pick up a cool billion dollars then the Treasurer will be able to stimulate the economy. I challenge honourable members opposite to refute the logic of that argument. I conclude on this note: It does the honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the other honourable member who spoke absolutely no credit to come in here today and give comfort in this place to those tax avoiders, those high income spivs, who cheat not only the workers of Australia but also the national Exchequer. 
-The Commonwealth Employment Service Bill 1978 is to restructure the administration of the Commonwealth Employment Service. It must necessarily be about employment opportunity- perhaps more succinctly, about unemployment. I say at the outset that unemployment, currently running nationally at 410,000, is completely unacceptable for any civilised society. It is being exacerbated by the deflationary economic policies of this Government and its failure to implement adequate retraining, manpower and immigration policies. In my electorate there are currently unemployed over 9,000 people or 1 1 per cent of the work force. The worst feature, of course, is unemployment amongst young people, particularly semi-skilled females. There are currently 1,200 young girls unemployed and seeking some 23 registered vacancies with the CES in Wollongong. In case honourable members think I am exaggerating I refer them to a report which appeared on 1 1 April 1978 in the Illawarra  Daily Mercury-  what is contained in this report is typical of what is happening all over the country- and which described how more than 100 girls answered one advertisement for a junior girl between IS and 16 years of age at the Uniset Boutique in Crown Street, Wollongong. The advertisement asked interested girls to apply at 10 a.m., and by 9.30 a.m. 100 girls had arrived at the boutique. Future prospects are indeed grim. 
At least 200,000 university graduates and school leaves will seek jobs every year over the next five years. The number of incoming migrant job seekers currently runs at over 50,000 a year. In addition to that, we can expect 200,000 women, who are not now in full-time education and who are not presently in the work force, to seek work in that period. After allowing for resignations, retirements and deaths we would need to create at least 900,000 new jobs over the next five years just to prevent unemployment from getting worse. This would mean that the civilian work force would have to increase by 3.9 per cent a year. Over the last three years the compound percentage change in employment has been negative; it has been minus 0.4 per cent. 
During the 1970s growth in labour demand was unable to cater for even a one per cent annual increase in the work force without increasing the unemployment rate. The number of persons employed in the manufacturing industry has declined from 1,294,000 in 1971 to 1,145,000 by the end of 1977. Civilians employed by private enterprise fell in number from 3.32 million to 3.24 million in the same period. During the period of the Fraser Government's administration, the number of government civilian employees rose from 1.34 million to 1.5 million. This simply means that, despite the rhetoric of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about transferring resources to the private sector, it has simply not occurred. We would be in even deeper recession if government employment had not slightly expanded. 
It is the manufacturing, the construction, the textile, the footwear and the clothing industries which show the real decline in the labour force. Only the areas of retail trade, community services, and entertainment in the tertiary sector show any real expansion. Employment in the mining sector has increased from 75,500 to 79,000 in the last six years, but this represents only 1.6 per cent of our work force. They produce some $3 billion worth of exports, not to mention the value of their production consumed in Australia. 
Much has been said about the so-called Gregory thesis, namely, that imports of manufactured goods rise as a result of increased export earnings and that this wipes out jobs in Australian manufacturing industry. Perhaps this argument is over-simplistic in the situation of increasing capital outflow. There is no denying that, if 79,000 employees in mining provide $3 billion worth of export earnings which may result in imports of equal worth, the important factor is the extent to which the number of jobs wiped out in Australia exceeds the number of jobs provided in mining. 
There is a multiplicity of reasons for the present massive level of unemployment. All those reasons are related to the failure of capitalism to use improved technology in the interests of people and workers. This Government's obsession with reducing inflation by cutting real wages and by cutting government expenditure has resulted in the consumer power of Australian wage and salary earners being savagely slashed. Accordingly, Australian manufacturing industry has suffered dearly. The major failure of capitalist economic policy- to create new employment -derives from its total inability to accept that the replacement of labour by technology must result in unemployment unless corresponding adjustments in the form of shorter working hours and improved conditions, including earlier optional retirement for workers, are implemented. However, the fact is that this Government's policy, and, indeed, the economic policies of the capitalist world generally, have been unsuccessful in producing so-called manpower policies which would result in a real redistribution of work opportunities. 
We may need manpower policies, but more than that we need deliberate policies of government and industry to create new jobs. This means and must mean increased government spending on housing, transport, local government employment schemes and State public works. It means introducing a resource tax to stem the haemorrhage of some $900m a year of capital outflow, caused in the main by repatriation of the profits of mining companies. Then, and only then, may it be possible to direct profits from the exportation of non-renewable resources to the task of modernising Australian industry. Only then may it be possible to reduce tariff protection against imported goods. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  indicated that the Bill was the Government's attempt to effect changes in the organisation of the Commonwealth Employment Service by introducing appropriate legislation. The Minister indicated that the changes followed an examination of recommendations in the Norgard Committee's report. The report urges the creation of the CES as an independent statutory authority which is a proposal to which I am utterly opposed. Fancy handing over the unemployed to the tender mercy of the bureaucrats! No government should be allowed to delegate its responsibility for the unemployed to a possibly insensitive and unresponsive bureaucracy. 
The Government's response to the report is the creation of a semi-independent, quasistatutory authority, with obscure lines of communication, information and responsibility. The Norgard Committee's report states that the CES is operating without clear objectives or priorities and that its limited resources are pretty thinly spread across a multitude of tasks. The Government 's response to this is a Bill which establishes no real priorities, which merely describes the functions already being performed by the CES and which makes no financial commitment to the provision of additional resources other than the appointment of a national director, which may be desirable but which is nevertheless a token response to an urgent national problem. 
I draw the attention of the House to one other aspect of this Bill. That is clause 6 (c), which, it is said, will encourage the CES to 'promote and implement approved manpower programs and other measures designed to ensure a high level of employment in the community'. In my opening remarks I referred to the changing structure of Australian industry. Whilst there is little doubt that some of the unemployment in this country has resulted from a structural imbalance, that is, the mismatching of available skills with available job opportunities, the principal cause of unemployment stems directly from the failure of government economic policy. The stark fact is that there are 410,000 unemployed and only 19,500 vacancies. Even if manpower programs matched every single vacancy there would still be 390,000 persons unemployed. Directing the CES to implement improved manpower planning programs without any clear overall objectives will not create jobs. Only a change in government economic policy will do that. 
In introducing the Re-establishment and Employment Act of 1945, which created the Commonwealth Employment Service, the then Labor Minister for Post-war Reconstruction and Development,  Mr J.  J. Dedman stated: 
First among the Government's objectives is the maintenance of a high and stable level of employment To achieve the objective, measures must be devised to ensure that, at any time, more potential jobs exist than the number of people seeking them and that, as far as possible, employment must be of the right kind, and in the right place. 
That was the Labor Government's policy 33 years ago. It ought to be the policy of this Government now. I shall examine the deficiencies in the present Commonwealth Employment Service Relief schemes. All claimants for unemployment relief must pass the work test. The fourth section of the so-called work test is the most controversial. It states: 
Not making an effort to obtain employment on his or her own behalf. 
This controversial test is obviously being incorrectly applied. Mainly, it is the Department of Social Security which makes the inspection and determination through its investigating officers. Honourable members will recall that last October the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  ordered a major survey of recipients of relief. Subsequently, there were reports that 30,000 people were briefly removed from benefit entitlement and then readmitted. Logically, this must mean that they were incorrectly harassed and inconvenienced. Why did the investigation not occur and then, if necessary, action taken, instead of having this over-zealous behaviour? The truth is that the unemployed are helpless and unorganised, and at the mercy of the bureaucrats of the Department of Social Security. 
In my electorate during this survey individuals were ordered by inspectors to produce written evidence that they were seeking work daily. This smacks of the old Depression mentality which was: Force people to use their already meagre revenues searching for work which does not exist. I refer to the enforced tramps of the 1930s and the attempts in the United Kingdom in 193 1 to force people to walk up to 15 miles a day seeking prospective employers. Does the Minister for Social Security really believe that such excesses will create one single extra job in Australia? If demanding that the unemployed seek work on a daily basis creates work, it means that employers who have jobs available are not engaging labour. If this were true the employers should be criticised for not doing so. The Commonwealth Employment Service is involved in a number of amelioraty schemes. It seems unbelievable, as the Norgard report states: 
When programs arrive there is invariably a delay of several months before staff are reallocated for work related to the program. 
This means that existing staff have to cope with the most difficult period of any program, the introductory stage. The review expressed dismay that staff received no special training for these new tasks. It seems incongruous that many Commonwealth Employment Service officers do not volunteer information to clients or employers about new or complex manpower programs because they have insufficient staff to handle the work generated from these programs. Little wonder then that, apart from the inefficiency of the programs themselves, the administration and payment to beneficiaries under these schemes border on the chaotic. 
I shall examine the Special Youth Employment Training Program. It subsidises employers up to $66 a week for six months to employ an unemployed person under 25 years of age who has been out of work for four months. Unfortunately, there are real contradictions in this program. On a number of occasions I have interviewed parents and school leavers who have suffered the disappointment of being referred by the Commonwealth Employment Service to a prospective employer only to be rejected when the employer found that, as a school leaver, they were not entitled to the Special Youth Employment Training Program pre-subsidy. In addition, there does not seem to be any demand that there be an overall net increase in that employer's labour force before the subsidy is paid. Perhaps there is a very strong case to remove these qualifications altogether and to adopt the idea which the Australian Labor Party put forward during the last election campaign of subsidising new employment only as long as there is a continuing net increase in an employer's labour force. 
Another great anomaly appears in the National Employment and Training scheme which, of course, authorises training and living away allowances in addition to unemployment relief for selected applicants. Many school leavers who find themselves with no real employment prospects and who do not possess the Higher School Certificate feel- correctly in my view- that they would be better employed in full time study to gain the Higher School Certificate rather than remaining idle. Yet the moment they return to school they are denied relief. Certainly a problem exists, and one knows that if they were paid the situation could be abused in regard to future school leavers. However, surely a competent Commonwealth Employment Service is capable of a fine judgment in these matters. 
In regard to the educational program for unemployed youth, which is administered under the National Employment and Training scheme, there is often a bureaucratic bungle which discourages further people from taking the six weeks course. Is there any reason why students under the program must be removed from the unemployment benefit and transferred to payment under the NEAT scheme, which sometimes results in lengthy delays in payments? Why not continue to pay benefits and reimburse the Department of Social Security from the NEAT scheme if necessary so that there is no disincentive to these young people as a result of the changeover. 
These schemes are only superficial. We in the Opposition are looking for real manpower programs and, like the unemployed, we are most disappointed by their absence. Now that the Government stands to gain from its tax avoidance legislation, let it re-introduce a local government employment scheme. My electorate benefited by $2.8m from Labor's Regional Employment Development scheme. Many fine local amenities were created under that scheme which was introduced by the then Minister for Labor and Immigration, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  At its peak the scheme was employing some 30,000 Australians who, of course, are now unemployed once more. 
In the few minutes still available to me I urge the Government to stop hounding the unemployed, to stop labelling the unemployed and to stop calling them dole bludgers. For a change, let us see what we can do for the unemployed. 
-I have heard honourable members opposite use that expression in the electorates many times. I make four suggestions to the Minister. Firstly, the Government should immediately raise the level of permissible earnings to $20 a week in line with the limit for other pensioners and beneficiaries. Secondly, abolish the 7-day waiting period for the unemployment benefit. Thirdly, pay school leavers the unemployment benefit from the time they register for work and are available to take work if offered it. They are entitled to it and it would help them find jobs at the end of the year. Fourthly, pay the unemployment benefit to persons whose benefit has been cancelled but who have appealed to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal and are waiting for the appeal to be considered. They are entitled to receive the benefit until it is proved that they are not genuine work seekers. 
Often we hear the Metal Trades Industry Association asserting that in the middle of record postwar unemployment employers cannot obtain skilled metal tradesmen. As a result the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs attempts to fill the vacancies with imported labour while those migrants already in this country wait in vain for reunion with close relatives whose applications for migration have been knocked back by the Department. What we need is a subsidised apprenticeship scheme and real manpower programs to try to train our young workers of the future rather than relying on migrant workers coming here and then dropping them into slots when they become available. The Opposition gives qualified support to this Bill. However, unless the Government takes positive action along the lines suggested by the Opposition it is clear that we will face unemployment of as yet undreamed of dimensions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) What position in the then Department of Social Services was held by  Mr Allan  George Moyes, the son-in-law of the Director-General, when he resigned from the Public Service. 
) On what date did he resign. 
When he resigned did he seek or receive the approval of the then Minister for Social Services to take employment with IBM Australia Ltd. 
On what dates and for what equipment has the department entered into contracts with (a) IBM Australia Ltd and ( b) other suppliers of computers. 
-From the Government side today we have not heard a genuine debate on the need for new coal export facilities in New South Wales, but rather we have been subjected to the desire of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  to influence his miner constituents in the Burragorang Valley and along the south coast, particularly in the Dapto area. He has been well known as a financial wizard for some time. We have also known him in the role of writing misleading letters to miners in his electorate at election time. Now he would have us believe that he has blossomed out into an authority on international trade, in this particular instance, the coal trade. I suggest that if the honourable member for Macarthur and the Government really want to help in these matters they should urge the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to implement a number of steps. They should include the implementation of a resources tax on coal exports so that we can get some money back into coal transport arrangements and coal facilities. There should be a national coal marketing authority, and the Federal Government should have some urgent talks with the Government of New South Wales regarding the provision of finance for much-needed export roads, new railways and storage areas. If Government supporters did that they might be a little more constructive. But they are not doing that. 
Let us have no more of this mealy-mouthed opportunism from the honourable member for Macarthur. He and the rest of the Government back benchers sit around like parrots on biscuit tins. Where are the Ministers who should be speaking on this issue? The back benchers sit there like a lot of magpies. They are on the Government, but they are not in the Government. We think this is so important a matter that our shadow Minister spoke on the issue. But where is the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)?  He is not even in the chamber. However, I address myself to these important matters. Firstly let me deal with the industrial dispute which occurred in Port Kembla over the last few days and which, as my colleague has pointed out, was solved not by the Federal Government but by the unions concerned and by the Premier of New South Wales. I tell the House that those men had a case, as the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has said. The people who had to maintain that installation at Port Kembla were receiving $3.90 an hour as members of the Federated Ironworkers Association, and their colleagues- workers in the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemens Association who work the loader- were receiving $4.75 an hour.  Mr Wran  can take some credit for solving that dispute, for getting the men back to work and for getting the coal moving again. But all we have had from the honourable member for Macarthur and the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  has been opportunist humbug. Today they have not put before us one concrete fact. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member for Macarthur has already spoken in this debate. He has been continually interjecting since and has been quite unruly in some of those interjections. I call upon the honourable member for Macarthur to cease interjecting. 
Let me deal with some concrete facts. The problems with coal in New South Wales- for the information of the honourable member- really stem from an oversupply situation and not from the fact that companies cannot get orders away. That was a temporary situation. The downturn in world steel is the reason for problems in coal exports. The European Economic Community is producing at 70 per cent of capacity, Japan at 70 per cent and Australia at 80 per cent. I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard a  table containing figures that show the production of steel by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at its Austraiian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd works at Port Kembla over the last 2 years to illustrate that domestic steel production is falling. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="109131197805243_31_1.jpg"></graphic>

-The situation is that all through 1977 and early 1978 the Japanese have been cutting back on their coal imports from Australia. They have discriminated against the south coast fields. This occurred last year, not this year. In the year to 30 March 1978, long before this industrial disputation had occurred, the cuts on the Kembla coal and coke contract had been from 2.3 million tonnes to 1.6 million tonnes. That company operates the biggest underground mine in Australia, the Coalcliff Colliery, and it will not do any better this year. Utah Development Co. during that same period exported some 1 1 million tonnes of coal from its four mines at Peak 
Downs, Goonyella, Saraji and Blackwater which was 87 per cent of its written contract for 1977. The south coast mines were subjected to price discrimination. Utah had been undercutting them. That, in my opinion, is the reason why, when the chips were down, the Japanese preferred to take a higher percentage of their coal imports from Queensland mines. 
Until recently I had a great deal of sympathy for Kembla Coal and Coke. Then I read in the  Australian Financial Review  that the Company had undertaken to sell coal to India at $US40 a tonne, that is approximately $A34. That creates a very dangerous situation when they try next year to undertake further negotiations with the Japanese. If we say that there is an excess of orders that cannot be supplied because of the situation within the ports in New South Wales we do not see the whole problem. Over the last few years Kembla Coal and Coke has invested $5 4m to develop their new mine at Westcliffe. It came on stream last year. It was supposed to provide 2 million tonnes a year for the Japanese trade. It has been producing less than one million tonnes a year. 
The reason is not that the company could not get its coal away but that the opportunity to sell the coal to Japan was just not there because of the downturn in world steel production. A number of new mines which were proposed are not now going ahead. Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, Kembla Coal and Coke Pty Ltd, Bellambi Coal Co. Ltd and so on were involved. The names of the proposed mines, which the honourable member for Macarthur did not bother to tell us, were to be: Cordeaux, Towers, Corrimal No. 1, Eastcliffe and Northcliffe. The only new mine that has been opened is Westcliffe. The development in these new mines now is just not on. The reason is the collapse of world steel production and therefore a reduction of the need to produce coking coal. The Japanese do not want to buy as much coking coal. 
There is one really big factor with regard to the port congestion at Port Kembla right now. It again revolves around the downturn in world and domestic steel production. I have had Port Kembla figures incorporated in  Hansard.  Honourable members can see them in black and white when they are printed. Because of the fall in domestic consumption of steel BHP is currently purchasing 1.5 million tonnes of coal less per year. The mines that have been producing this coal- notably Austin Bhutta, Coalex and Clutha- have been attempting to sell it on the overseas market as steaming coal. Because they have been successful to some extent in selling that coal as steaming coal on the overseas market there has been an added strain on facilities at Port Kembla. 
In conclusion, there is no question that the loader at Port Kembla will go ahead. The Government might as well forget about flying kites, talking about going back to Botany Bay. It can forget about Botany Bay. Soros, a major United States firm, has already started preparation for the new coal loader at Port Kembla. It will be an on-shore loader situated where the multipurpose berth now is. I contacted the Premier's office this morning and was assured of these facts. The loader will be completed by early 1981. As an interim measure the present loader has been upgraded to a capacity of 6 million tonnes a year until that date. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) How many persons have been removed from the unemployment benefit list as a result of the present survey by inspectors of the Department of Social Security and the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
Have a number of persons been restored to the list after having been incorrectly removed. 
Is it a fact that, during the survey, officers have demanded that unemployed persons must show written evidence from prospective employers that they were seeking employment on a daily basis. 
-The question of housing, or rather the lack of housing in Australia today, is one of the most important issues facing the Australian people. The most worrying fact about this legislation is that we do not know how much finance the States shall receive for government housing. I suppose we must wait until Budget time to find out just how much further the States will be squeezed in this area that the Government chooses to call welfare housing. It is of no use for Government members to deny that they have viciously pruned Federal grants in this area. 
In Labor's last Budget in 1975-76 some $364.6m was allocated to the States for the housing commissions and terminating building societies. In the 1976 Liberal-Country Party Budget $375m was allocated, a rise of just 2.8 per cent. In the 1977 Budget $390m was allocated, a rise of 4 per cent over the preceding year. According to the consumer price index, the total inflation rate between September 1975 and 
September 1977 was 26.8 per cent so it can be clearly seen that housing grants to the States have been cut by 20 per cent in real terms in just 2 years. What this really amounts to is a concerted attack on the role of the State housing commissions as instruments to build houses for workers. 
It is a pity that the rate of increase in housing construction by the various commissions until 1955 has not continued. Let me remind the House again that in that year of 1955, 23 years ago, a national total of 18,000 houses was constructed by the State governments- 22 per cent of the combined private-public total of 82,000 dwellings. In 1977-78 when the total allocation was $375m, the pitiful total number of dwellings completed was 11,439, just 7.9 per cent of the national total of 141,000. It is a shocking indictment of the housing policies of this Federal Government that in the premier State of New South Wales only 3,428 commission dwellings were completed in 1976-77. At that time, there were 26,735 families on the waiting list. This is only the tip of the iceberg, because anyone earning more than 85 per cent of the national average wage, subject to certain conditions, is not eligible for commission accommodation. At this rate, the last family of that list will be accommodated in 1986. 
The situation is equally as bad, if not worse, in Victoria where only 2,531 dwellings were completed in 1976-77 and there are 20,359 families on the waiting list. Of all the States, it appears that the situation is worst in Victoria where there was a significant reduction in the number of private dwellings completed in March 1978 compared with March 1977. The figures were 1,771 and 2,258 respectively. As the Housing Industry Association points out, in Victoria the downward trend in housing construction continued throughout the March quarter. The moving annual total for commencements in the March quarter also continued to decline and is now some 20 per cent below the rate of one year ago. Again in Victoria, the number of new loans from all lenders approved either to build or to buy new houses in the month of March 1978 fell by 26.2 per cent from savings banks, 3 per cent from trading banks and 1 1.6 per cent from permanent bunding societies. 
Against this gloomy background for the housing industry, the Opposition surely is entitled to demand that substantial extra Federal funds be injected into the State housing commissions. Naturally, this sort of slump in the housing industry is contributing greatly to the present recession. From a national total of 402,500 unemployed, the Commonwealth Employment Service at the end of April 1978 listed 17,609 males and eight females as unemployed skilled building and construction workers, and only 673 unfilled vacancies. The Building Workers Industrial Union of Australia records show that 18,846 skilled building and construction workers are unemployed nationally, 6,382 of them are in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory, and 4,400 are in Victoria. There are at least 10,000 fewer people unemployed today in the building and construction industry than there were one year ago. 
It is a national disgrace that in the middle of a recession only 141,000 new dwellings in Australia were completed in 1976-77. One could understand a national slump in housing construction if there were literally no real demand for housing, if there were shortages of skilled labour, if there were shortages of building materials and so on. This is not the situation. As I have shown, some 20,000 skilled building tradesmen are receiving unemployment relief Possibly another 15,000 building and construction labourers also are unemployed. Factories, brickyards, timber yards and warehouses are stacked with unsold building materials. I conservatively estimate that at least 300,000 families are waiting for housing. Many of them currently are paying exorbitant rents or are living in substandard dwellings. That means that there would be 100,000 families on the government housing commissions' lists and at least 200,000 families looking for loans from banks, credit unions and building societies to build their own private dwellings. This means that approximately threequarters of a million people, counting wives and children, now are waiting for proper housing in this country. We have the workers, we have the materials and the need exists, but this Government lacks the housing policy dedicated to solving this urgent national problem. 
To illustrate what I am saying, let me give an example of what is possible even in an adverse situation. In 1946, post-war Britain was suffering a real housing problem. One in three houses was damaged or destroyed during the war, and at least  Yi  million new dwellings were required. Unlike 1978 Australia there were real problems to surmount. There were shortages of skilled labour since full demobilisation of the armed forces had yet to be achieved and there was an absolutely crushing shortage of materials. The difference was that the British post-war Labour Government possessed the will to tackle the problem. By 1948 the Housing Minister, Aneurin Bevan, announced that 278,000 dwellings were completed in that year- 278,000 dwellings completed in the most adverse situation. In the period of the Labour Government, 1946 to 195 1, Britain, in the main, achieved its post-war housing reconstruction of more than 1.5 million dwellings. It was probably in a better housing situation that at any time since the 18th century Industrial Revolution. That is what happened in five years under a Labour Government. 
Here in Australia in the last five years some 740,000 new dwellings have been completed. Only 8.2 per cent of them were completed by the government housing authorities. What an indictment of Australian housing policy! In times of stress in 1946, a beleagured and damaged nation considered its first priority to be its own people's housing needs. On the other hand, this Government wastes the energies and skills of its workers and condemns the homeless to desperation. 
There is one other point I should like to make in the comparison between post-war Britain and Australia in 1978. In 1946, Bevan chose local council authorities as his building instrument against great criticism that they would fail. The Chifley Labor Government also had to forge an instrument to satisfy our demand for post-war housing- a demand that private enterprise could not meet. He chose the States. They were his instrument. Thus the State housing commissions were created. Like Bevan 's council authorities they did not fail either. At least they were as successful as Commonwealth funding would allow during the 1950s and the 1960s. Over a period of 30 years a great and successful housing construction machine has been created. 
It will be a national tragedy if this Government succeeds in winding down and destroying by stealth and denial of finance such an instrument that alone, in these days of high inflation and high interest charges, can satisfy the aspirations of so many working class families. Let the Government state here and now, in this debate, that we will have no more penny pinching in funds to the commissions. Let the Government pledge at least an extra $200m on last year's finance to the States for housing. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  pushed his Bill through to catch the tax dodgers. Let him now distribute some of the largess from those funds to build houses and to stimulate economic recovery. This year's Budget outlay probably will be about $2 9,000m. Surely the Government can spare another couple of hundred million dollars for housing to the States. It would be only 0.7 per cent of the whole total Budget outlay. I comment on the removal from the Agreement of the limit on the number of housing commission dwellings that may be sold and also on the proposal to ensure that 40 per cent of a State's allocation must go to private home builders by 1980. Obviously this new policy is again designed to move housing resources away from the control of the State housing commissions. One can understand the desire of families, which have rented housing commission accommodation over a long period, to purchase what is in fact their home. However, there is another side to the story. The policy of the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party is that: 
The primary responsibility of the Housing Commission is to provide housing for rent and not for sale. It is essential that the majority of Housing Commission dwellings be retained for the benefit of people who will need public housing in the future. 
Honourable members should keep those facts in mind. Housing commissions clearly ought to build up stocks of dwellings. But, if existing dwellings are to be sold, then the price should be replacement value, not market value. It would be incorrect for State authorities to receive profits which have been paid for by workers on inflated home and loan values. The other point is the suggestion that 40 per cent of future finance should be directed to private home building. The view of the Opposition is that if that does occur it should be directed through the terminating building societies. The housing commission should get on with the job of constructing rental accommodation and let the Federal Government give the housing commissions enough finance to achieve a target of at least 15,000 dwellings a year, as is set out in the Opposition's amendment. I have no objection to 40 per cent of the Federal Government's allocation going to terminating building societies for private construction as long as the remaining 60 per cent is sufficient to achieve those aims. I note that the Commonwealth no longer requires that eligibility for housing commission accommodation be restricted to persons earning not more than 85 per cent of national average earnings. The Schedule reads: 
The conditions of eligibility of persons for rental housing assistance shall be determined by the State . . . 
So, it is passing the buck to the States once more. In New South Wales the present position is that eligibility is dependent on the applicant having earnings of not more than 85 per cent of the national average wage, together with allowances for children. I ask permission for a short table, showing the extent of allowances for children in New South Wales, to be printed in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="109131197805291_28_0.jpg"></graphic>

Although it is now the prerogative of the States to determine their own means testing for housing commission accommodation one would expect that since the waiting list is so long, and Federal finance is so pitiful, the Labor States would probably continue to impose a means test similar to the one set out in the table I have incorporated in  Hansard  with an extra $2 1 a week allowed for the first child and another $25 a week allowed for a second child of a different sex, and so on, as shown in the table. However, the Minister must accept that it is essential to increase the income ceiling at least to the national average wage- perhaps to the national average wage plus 15 per cent, with similar allowances for children as now apply in New South Wales. That depends on extra Federal Government finance, for it can apply with fairness only if the total allocations are increased dramatically.The Government must do that. The Government should also accept section (b) of the Opposition's amendment, which reads: 
Rents charges for Housing Commission dwellings should be set (i) for persons with incomes up to 1 35' per cent of average weekly earnings at not more than 85 per cent of the rates of rental on the open market . . . 
As the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  pointed out, the Opposition does not like the idea of so-called market rents being charged for Government housing, even with a system of rebates for lower income earners and pensioners. The honourable member for Batman handled this aspect well but I shall just go over it briefly. What is meant by the market rate? How is it determined? Is it determined by the inflated rents charged by private housing and apartment entrepreneurs? Is it determined by the investment return rate required by massive original land costs and interest rates? Surely the task of Federal and State governments is to meet the massive demand for housing by providing it at the lowest possible rents. As the Government should be in a position to develop land and to build houses at a lower cost than private enterprise, why should there be this obsession that rents on Government housing should be moved up to the artificially high levels set by a private market, basically on what the market will bear? In the private market, in the main, rents are exorbitant because there is an extreme housing shortage caused by the Government's economic policy. In effect, it is a Catch-22 situation. 
In the last few minutes available to me I point out that the Opposition is far from happy with the escalation of interest rates proposed in the Agreement. I shall not read out the rates because all honourable members are familiar with them. They start at 5 per cent and rise by half a per cent each year until they reach one per cent below the prevailing bond rate. Let me instance the case of a young couple who have borrowed money from a terminating building society and moved into a home. Then, six or eight years later, just at about the time when their children are going to school, they find that the interest rate to be charged on the loan is one per cent below the bond rate. If $20,000 is still outstanding on the loan that young couple is paying from $160 to $180 a month again. If the young couple is on a wage at about $165 a week, the situation would be that the take-home pay would be $125 a week of which $45 would go to so-called welfare housing, leaving them with a miserable $80 a week. The Government had better have another look at its interest rate policy. The Opposition does not think it is very good at all. 
In conclusion, I point out that the Government must reverse its policies aimed at the eventual destruction of State housing commissions. The Opposition considers that is what the Government has in mind in the long run. The Government should forget about the destruction of State housing commissions which are mighty Australian home building instruments. The State housing commissions have been in existence and have forged ahead for more than 30 years and much good work has gone into them. The Opposition urges the Government not to cut back on finance to the State housing commissions but to expand that finance. What is wrong with $200m in excess of the allocation made to the States last year being provided for public housing? That sum must be available in order to build a minimum of 15,000 houses for workers a year. The people of Australia will have no doubt that the Government stands condemned if it continues to try to assassinate the State housing commissions and to make insufficient finance available to housing for workers. 
I have listened to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  in his last two contributions. I shall take issue with him presently. I also listened to the earlier amusing contribution from the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu).  If I may digress very briefly his contribution reminded me of the fellow who got up to speak. Before he got up to speak he did not know what he was going to say; while he was speaking he did not know what he was saying; and when he had finished he did not know what he had said- neither did anyone else for that matter. I shall be precise and deal with the amendments affecting clauses 11 and 13 of the original Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill. As we all know, the original Bill as presented to this chamber several weeks ago-- 
-Let me return to several of the points I was making before I was so rudely guillotined several minutes ago. They are common to both clause 1 1 and clause 13 of the original Bill. As I was saying, clause 13 of the original Bill provides for the ultimate takeover of responsibilities by the Commonwealth in an emergency situation, and obviously the situations that are imagined- as far as the Government is concerned anyway- are civil disturbances or actions against the mining and transport of uranium. Also there is a possible situation that could arise regarding the development of hazards from the mining of uranium. 
In any of these contingencies clause 13 provided for ultimate Federal power to be resumed. We said in the debate some two weeks ago that the greatest danger in clause 13 was to civil liberties and I have referred to sub-clause (5) of clause 13. The reasons we opposed clause 13 at the time are very clear. Firstly, there is the assault upon civil liberties, and secondly, we are utterly and completely opposed to uranium mining at this stage because there is no known way to dispose of nuclear waste, and because the safeguards- such as the international atomic energy agency safeguards that the Government is depending upon, and also bilateral agreements and signatories to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty- are just not sufficient to guarantee that Australian uranium will not be used in the manufacture of nuclear weapons. 
That was why we objected to the Bill. That is why we object to clause 13. Other people objected to clause 13, namely, the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  and the Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer.  They said at the time that their objections were based, firstly, upon the assault upon civil liberties inherent in clause 13, and secondly, because clause 13 might pave the way for an ultimate Federal direction that uranium mining may proceed in the States against the wishes of the State government that may be in power at that particular time. It was not- and this is important- because they objected to safety procedures to govern uranium mining and transport in the ultimate eventuality of that going ahead. 
Obviously there would have to be safety procedures. But when we look at what has happened in these amendments- firstly, the one we have already dealt with, sub-clause (5)- does that really mean that uranium mining can still proceed if the States object and there are no safety procedures whatsoever? Is that what sub-clause (5) really means? 
Does sub-clause (6) really mean that if a real nuclear hazard did develop- one could easily imagine it, I will put forward a hypothetical situation in a moment- the States could override the Commonwealth, override the wishes of the workers and order that uranium mining could go ahead and must go ahead? That is what I think it means, because sub-clause (6) provides that an order made under sub-section ( 1 ) in relation to a situation resulting from nuclear activity shall not authorise a Minister to give directions that have effect in a State or to take any action in a State unless the Governor of the State has requested the Governor-General to make an order. 
To members of the Opposition that means that if the States objected to a Commonwealth direction to stop, the uranium mining could still go ahead. Is that what it really means? We think that it does and that is what we object to because this is the sort of situation that could develop at, say, Ranger It might be remembered that the Fox Inquiry was told that mill tailings, which if exposed to the atmosphere give off radon gas for a hundred thousand years, would be stored under water and  Mr Justice  Fox said that was no good and they should be buried in the empty mine after the uranium has been taken out, and I understand that will happen. Nevertheless, in the short term they will be ponded. What will happen in, say, an extremely wet season when flooding develops or the dam breaks down and an emergency situation develops? Suppose that such a situation developed at some new mine in the future in Queensland and a reactionary Queensland government said: 'No, that is not serious enough to stop the mining'. Under this amendment the Queensland Government could say to the Commonwealth that the uranium mining must still proceed. What would the Minister do about that with regard to this amendment? 
The members of the Opposition say that the Minister has backed down and been stood over, firstly, by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly on the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill, and secondly, he has been stood over by the States with regard to the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill.  His  legislation is in tatters. The whole parcel ought to be withdrawn, and if he is still determined to go ahead with the nefarious activity of uranium mining he should come up with something better than the ultimate result of these Senate mutilated Bills. 
-I understand that the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  may have acquired some of his indoctrination and biased views against the trade union movement when he worked as a junior executive for the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd some years ago. 
It may be not so much a matter of whether it was used before as whether it was correct or not. Since I have mentioned BHP, I might also mention one other fact that is relevant to what we are talking about in relation to this Bill, and to whether or not the Trade Union Training Authority has been successful in its operations. I am reliably informed that when TUTA conducted steel industry courses at the Wollongong University for workers in that industry, not only did BHP employees at Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd not attend that seminar but the company prevented them from attending even though they wanted to do so while on unpaid leave. So much for the attitude of some of the employers in this country to responsibility in trade union and management negotiations. 
This Bill to amend the Trade  Union  Training Authority Act 1975 is the result of the Government's nearly total lack of understanding of the nature and aims of the Australian trade union movement. Because of that lack of understanding the Government has been led into this misguided assault on the rights of the trade union movement to manage its own affairs. 
Let us look at the original philosophy behind the 1975 Trade Union Training Authority legislation. On 6 March 1975,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, who was then Minister for Labour and Immigration, prefaced his remarks in his second reading speech on the Bill by saying that it meant that: 
Trade unionists should have an opportunity to participate in training programs designed specifically for their needs. 
In short, it was a call to the trade unionists of Australia to participate, on their own volition, in a scheme designed to increase their level of competence in organising the activities of their unions in a manner conducive to the improvement of working conditions and the more efficient working of industrial relations in Australia. As Clyde Cameron went on to say in that second reading speech: 
It is crucial to better labour relations that those who do business on behalf of organised labour know and are able to aniculate the views of those whom they represent. 
The autonomy of the trade union movement in the organisation and operation of the Trade Union Training Authority, as originally conceived, is vital to its proper and effective functioning in the interests of clearer and more coherent functioning of industrial relations. 
The first annual report of the Trade Union Training Authority, that for 1975-76, reveals that 3,877 unionists participated in 211 courses conducted by that body throughout Australia. Those 3,877 unionists represented 125 unions, according to the report, or some 44 per cent of the total number of trade unions within Australia as at December 1976. The report considered this to be a major achievement. On page 6 it said: 
Despite this year being an establishment period, a substantial course program was conducted throughout Australia. 
Yet this Liberal-National Country Party Government seeks to destroy the control of the trade union movement over the operation of union training courses offered by the Authority. In short, the Government proposes to take the repressive step of relegating the majority of union representation on the Australian and State Councils for Union Training to a merely advisory capacity. By means of the device of ministerial appointment at all levels of TUTA, the Government seeks to emasculate the level of trade union responsibility and courses within the Authority. 
Why the Government must take these measures will remain something of a mystery, for within TUTA the broad union movement sought an operation which expressed itself simply as a desire to gain the skills and competence to more effectively and efficiently represent their members. However, for idealogical reasons, the Government, in presenting this amending Bill, seems to assume the existence within the Australian labour movement of some form of original sin. In its view there must of necessity be great danger abroad if the movement is left to oversee its own affairs. This is a typical Government knee-jerk reaction. The present Government simply does not understand the nature or aims of the broad labour movement in Australia. Accordingly, through lack of intellectual effort and understanding, it feels that it is much safer to hamstring and attack innovations such as the Trade Union Training Authority. Why is this? What was the aim of TUTA as originally conceived in 1975, and how was this aim to be expressed in the practical organisation and operation of the Authority? As the then Minister for Labour and Immigration put is so succinctly in 1975: 
The training provided will be aimed primarily at promoting trade union competence . . . This will undoubtedly diminish the tensions and frustrations between the two parties (unions and management) and contribute to the more efficient avoidance and resolution of industrial conflict. 
The aims of the Australian Labor Party, as expressed in the TUTA legislation of 1975, were the fostering of competent and efficient trade union administration, and the development of greater levels of verbal, non-verbal and written communication skills amongst those officials and delegates involved in industrial contact with management; that is, the ability of union organisers to quickly and clearly perceive their own and also the employers' position on any particular issue so as to act in the best interests of their members. 
In his original speech on TUTA, Clyde Cameron spoke of 'The development of trade unions as social institutions'. The original Act sought to enhance and promote the status of unions as integral and effective elements of an increasingly complex social and industrial society. To achieve these aims it was absolutely necessary that trade unions insist upon themselves organising trade union training in a manner compatible with the aspirations of the trade union movement. There is obviously a huge fear in the ranks of the Government that if unions run their own training programs they will produce militant unionists dedicated to the overthrow of capitalism. Obviously many trade union officials and trade unionists feel that this may be a desirable function, but it clearly has not been the function of the Trade Union Training Authority. In a leaflet entitled 'Clyde Cameron College Courses for February, 1978' we read at page 10 the following: 
TUTA does not attempt to influence union policies- that is not its role. TUTA aims to provide a training and education service for the whole union movement in Australia. 
The contents of the course book on shop steward training gives the following headings for the courses: Union structure and the role of the shop steward; duties of a shop steward; protection for the shop steward; What the shop steward needs to know; Recruiting; and handling of a grievance. Other topics include: Written Communications; Writing and Letter Writing; Verbal Communication- Speaking on your Feet. Another subject is Meeting Procedures. The courses I have described are hardly the stuff on which revolutions are constructed, and I think that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  ought to hear that point in mind. 
In combating this mistaken notion of the type of union training propagated by TUTA it is necessary to remind such critics that it is insulting to treat unions and unionists as if they were appendages of the employers and the Government and must be supervised at every step. Honourable members opposite may like to know that according to the TUTA annual report for 1975-76, the first year of its operations, representatives of unions such as the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Sheet Metal Workers Union, the Building Workers Industrial Union of Australia, the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's Association of Australia, the Ship Painters and Dockers Union, the Miners' Federation, the Seamen's Union and the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia attended TUTA courses throughout Australia. The willing participation of these and other unions will not be as much in evidence, I fear, in future years now that the Government is proceeding to attack the autonomy of the movement by deliberately weakening the power of the unions to control their own training programs through TUTA. 
In accordance with the spirit of the original legislation, trade union interests predominated on the bodies which constituted TUTA. Of the 16 members of the Australian Council 1 1 are direct union representatives- three from the Australian Council of Trade Unions, one from the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations, one from the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations and six from State Trades and Labour Councils. The Council was given autonomy in formulating policies and courses and in the distribution of funds. The various State councils enjoyed a similar composition and autonomy in regard to the conduct of courses. 
Let me now deal with TUTA. The Authority as a whole was made responsible to the Minister though not in the manner in which it will be made responsible to the Minister if the present Bill is passed. Under this Bill the Minister will strangle the autonomy of TUTA by means of the device of rninisterial appointment at all levels of the Authority. We on the Opposition benches say shame'. Let me briefly digress to examine the implications of the Bill in regard to the future administration of TUTA. What does the Bill propose? Firstly, it proposes that the National Director be appointed by the Minister. Secondly, in regard to the Executive Board it is proposed to have eight members, four of whom will represent unions. Those persons are to be appointed from the Council by the Minister. I point out in regard to the Executive Board of eight persons that clause 8T (4) provides that the  Chairman  of the Board has a casting vote, which means in a tight situation with four unionists opposing four nonunionists the  Chairman,  who is appointed by the Minister- the bureaucrat- will have control. That is scarcely a proposal in which the trade unionists and the trade unions of Australia could have confidence. 
Similarly, it is proposed to have 14 persons on the Australian Council, five from the ACTU, one from ACSPA and one from CAGEO-that is seven from the unions- all to be appointed by the Minister from short lists. What audacity! What hide! Is not the trade union movement entitled to say that its representatives will be elected or selected from the movement and will be directly responsible to that movement and will be replaced if they do not do the right thing, if they do not perform their job? Under this legislation there could be possible lackeys who will be appointed by the Minister, the implication being that if they do not support Government policy they can be replaced. Clearly the union members of the Council ought to be elected by the trade union movement and responsible only to that movement. 
The result of this interference,  Mr Minister-  I suggest that you should listen to my predictions -is easy to portray. There will be a loss of interest in TUTA, at a time when the underlying hostility towards TUTA is lessening in many unions which traditionally had undertaken full responsibility for the training of their own delegates and shop stewards. The certain effect of this legislation will be to drive unions and unionists away from an organisation which is so obviously run by government bureaucrats. The unions will not have a bar of such a set-up, and who will blame them? Let me, as a trade unionist with some 23 years experience, stress that any dedicated unionist would see the purpose of trade union training as a means of improving his or her ability to fight for the rights of the people whom he or she represents, not as a means of creating a better or a smoother industrial relations situation for the benefit of the employers. Perhaps this may be a by-product of the present Authority. If it is a by-product, well so much the better; but it should not be seen as the primary purpose of trade union training. 
Let it be said again that the main aim of trade union training should be to place the delegates and union officials representing workers in a better position so that they can be more competent representatives of the workers and trade unionists whom they represent. I can well understand that those who have hitherto relied on their own industrial experience and on the forms and machinery of their own unions, such as the shop stewards of the Australian Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union and the job delegates of the Waterside Workers Federation- an organisation with which I have had some little experiencewill be even more disposed than they were before not to participate in an organisation which so obviously is influenced by employers and by the coalition Government. A result of this stupid legislation will be to drive them further away from the auspices of TUTA. 
Perhaps there are some overdue reforms in the trade union movement, but this legislation is certainly not on the agenda of desirable reforms. There is a need to amalgamate smaller craft unions and multiple industry unions into single industry organisations and a need to make all union officials completely responsible to their own rank and file, both by election and during their term of office. We can be assured that the people who are now attempting to assassinate TUTA by attempting to make it a creature of government policy, will oppose these reforms that I have enunciated and any other progressive forms that the unions may seek to implement if those reforms are thought likely to strengthen the ability of unions to battle for workers. 
The Government is creating an issue where there is no issue. It wants to cause trouble in the trade union movement. The legislation is divisive. It is conservative and it is reactionary. The 
Government is paranoic about the trade union movement. The Minister has succumbed to the ideological hysteria of his own reactionary conservative right wing supports who would not know a thing about proper industrial relations in this country. This hysteria has expressed itself as a cowardly attack on such a palliative institution as the TUTA. In conclusion,  Mr Minister,  let me say to you tonight that if you are genuinely driven by a desire to improve trade union training and management in industrial relations in this country then you will ignore the blandishments and exhortations of the people in the Ministry and those on the back bench who do not care one iota about the future of industrial relations or for the workers who turn the wheels of Industry. 
-At the outset I shall take up the remark that was made about me in the reply to the second reading debate by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  He made what I consider to be a rather smart crack. He said that I said tonight that the Trade Union Training Authority was not revolutionary enough. What I said was that honourable members opposite think that the Trade Union Training Authority has been turning out militants and revolutionaries. While some trade unionists and even some trade union officials might think that this is desirable, in fact it is not so. The whole thrust of the training program was concentrated on important negotiating skills, teaching people to write letters, to administer trade unions and how to be better shop floor representatives. What I really said was that if this is the case- that is indisputable- I do not know what Government members are worried about 
I shall now deal with the position of National Director. I draw the attention of the Committee to proposed new section 8d ( 1 ). I must mention the absolute audacity of the Government in appointing the National Director through the Minister. I draw the attention of honourable members also to proposed new section 8c. It states: 
Without limiting the generality of section 7, the National Director may, on behalf of the Authority, arrange for the provision of courses of or related to trade union training at places in Australia other than the College or Trade Union Training Centres. 
That seems to give the National Director authority to arrange for the provision of extra courses without referring to the Executive Board or the Australian Council. It gives him a duty and a responsibility which, if he cares to exercise it, will be completely outside the province of what his duties ought to be. This is a very sloppily drafted Bill. To refer to another duty of the National Director I have to turn to clause 2 1 . It states: 
. The National Director may arrange for persons with knowledge or experience in trade union matters or in matters relevant to the functions of the College or of a Trade Union Training Centre or to the instruction and training of persons in trade union matters, to assist, otherwise than on the basis of full-time employment, in the performance of the functions of the College . . . 
To me that simply means that the National Director has power to arrange for extra tutors on a part time basis. What sort of tutors might the National Director have in mind? Can we look forward to someone like David McNicol or Bob Santamaria suddenly appearing in the role of a trade union instructor at the Trade Union Training Authority? Why should any national director appointed by the Minister have the powers I have just outlined? 
In conclusion, I submit that only a government that is completely out of touch with the realities of industrial relations and the trade union movement and how workers think could act this way and still expect that the broad labour movement would still support a trade union training authority under this sort of administration. I think the answer is that the Government knows that a lot of unions will not support the Authority under this sort of administration. I believe that is the whole purpose of the exercise, to help to destroy the Trade Union Training Authority and the Clyde Cameron College. That is the bitter heart of the matter. That is what the Government is all about. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I draw his attention to his statement in the House last week in which he said: 
The change in medical benefits is expected to lead to a reduction of 46c a week, family rate, in medical insurance contributions, reducing the average rate to $4.54 a week. 
Is he aware that spokesmen for private health insurance funds have stated that there will be no such reductions? What steps is the Minister taking to ensure that medical insurance contributions to private health funds are reduced in accordance with his promise? 
-Clause 5 of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill deals with the particularly obnoxious proposal to increase the amount of each bill that a patient or a contributor to a health fund must pay. The Government has conceived the brilliant concept of reducing the medical benefit payment from 85 per cent to 75 per cent of the scheduled fee, and also to increase the maximum contribution for each service for which the scheduled fee is charged from $5 to $10. The effect of this will be to add 90c to the patient contribution for a standard general practitioner consultation, $1.30 for a home visit by a doctor and $2.60 for a specialist consultation. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  may think that- I use his words- 'this remains a small additional direct patient contribution'. But I remind him that $2.60 can be very important to a low income earner with a net income of between $ 100 and $ 1 20 a week. 
I also remind the Minister that many doctors and specialists charge more than the scheduled fee. Cases have been drawn to my attention where patients have been charged $100, $200 or even $300 in one instance, more than the scheduled fee for major surgery. If the Minister is really serious about containing health costs, he should be seeking to control these parasitic doctors and specialists who seek to earn exorbitant incomes from' the misfortune of major illnesses. 
I think we ought to ask ourselves the reason for the Government's actions. The Minister says that this will deter people from using health services unnecessarily. But how does one judge in the early stages of an illness whether a consultation is necessary? At any rate, the Minister has pointed out that people who wish to obtain additional insurance cover as a result of this decision will be able to obtain it anyway through the supplementary tables of the private health organisations. That is the position. People who can afford to do so can take the extra cover; people who cannot afford to do so can take the risk. There will be no deterrent for the rich, but obviously there will be a significant deterrent for those people who cannot afford to pay. 
I rise tonight because ever since I have come to this House I have been sickened by the attempts of a number of Government backbench members, including the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  to turn the needed construction of a new coal loader in the Port Kembla district into a political football. Once again I note that this evening they have been up to their same old tricks. I have been prompted to rise to try to educate these people. If they listen for the next four minutes they might learn something about the coal loader situation in the Wollongong district. 
It is true that there is a need for a new coal loader on the South Coast of New South Wales. There has been for a number of years. The Wran State Labor Government has already lifted the capacity of the Port Kembla loader by one million tonnes, from five million tonnes a year to six million tonnes. It did this in the last two years. It was originally thought that this loader might be constructed off-shore but that decision was changed for a variety of reasons. Now it is to be an on-shore loader. I agree with that decision and I will tell the House why. 
For some time there have been plans- in my view the plans are wrong- to alter the whole harbour construction at Port Kembla by constructing a very large off-shore loader. This involved linking the five islands by means of an underwater breakwater. I reason that if an off-shore loader were constructed it would mean that the whole thrust of future harbour development in Port Kembla would irreversibly be towards an off-shore harbour development. I say that for the simple reason that the sea, when there are heavy swells and so on, will make that off-shore loader, without the appropriate breakwaters, unusable for at least three or four months of the year. 
If one is opposed to that sort of environment destroying proposition, as I am, obviously one would be in favour of the construction of an onshore loader inside the Port Kembla inner harbour. For that reason I totally agree with the decision of the Wran Labor Government to construct the loader not at Botany Bay- Government supporters can forget about Botany Baybut inside the inner harbour at Port Kembla. 
As I have said, there is a very great need for this loader to be constructed with the utmost speed. One of the main problems associated with this project is the transport of coal. Let us look at how the coal is being transported to Port Kembla. At the moment the coal from the north, particularly from the major mine at Coalcliff, is being transported by rail, but the coal that comes into the area from the Burragorang Valley, the new mine at Westcliff and also the South Bulli mine, is carted by road. That means that every day some 1,000 road trucks lumber through the heart of Wollongong and we do not like that very much. So there are a number of needs associated with this new coal loader at Port Kembla and I will briefly outline them. 
First of all there needs to be a new rail line constructed from the tablelands to Port Kembla. There needs to be an overhead conveyor at South Bulli to make sure that the coal from South Bulli gets to the main Illawarra line. And last but not least, the stock piles need to be covered to stop wind blown dust polluting the City of Wollongong and Port Kembla. 
It would be a darn sight better if this Government had meaningful financial discussions with  Mr Wran  at the Premiers Conference in several weeks time about the funding of these operations rather than allow its supproters to get up in this Parliament and try to turn the issue into a political football for their own personal political gains in their electorates. That is what the honourable member for Macarthur does. It is very likely that the coal loader at Port Kembla will be constructed by means of a levy on tonnage throughput but I do not think that would be an appropriate means of financing the railway line and the upgrading of the new roads to the tablelands. I think that at this stage the Federal Government had better come to the party. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 May 1978: 
With regard to his statement on 5 May 1978 that wine exports to Canada had increased as a result of his visit by VIP aircraft to Melbourne on 4 May 1978, will he explain (a) which wine manufacturer or manufacturers obtained these sales and (b) what quantity of wine is involved in the increased export sale. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware that in the Senate on 4 November 1977 the former Minister for Administrative Services said: 
I have never telephoned . . . about the naming of electorates. 
I have been asked why the names were changed. 
I shall address myself to some real political issues. I refer to the present scandalous deficiency in accommodation for the aged and handicapped people of Australia. Honourable members will be aware that the Aged and Disabled Persons Homes Act of 1954, as amended in 1976, provides for the Department of Social Security to fund on a federal level, on a two to one basis, the capital costs of new nursing homes after applications are forwarded from religious, charitable or local government bodies. I outline some of the deficiencies and problems that arise from this program. Firstly, with regard to present day construction costs it is estimated that some $20,000 a bed is required to construct a nursing home. That means that some $2m would be required to construct a 100-bed nursing home. It means that religious, charitable and local government bodies have to raise a down payment in the nature of $650,000 for such a home. That is completely beyond the means of most of these bodies to which I have referred. The situation, however, is even worse. I refer to a submission from the Illawarra Retirement Trust- an organisation in my electorate and in the electorate of Hughes- that provides accommodation for the aged and handicapped. Its submission to the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  stated: 
The average cost of building a nursing home bed is $20,000. The maximum Government subsidy is $1 1, 130 - leaving a balance of $9,000 to be raised locally by the voluntary organisation. That is barely a 1 for 1 subsidy. The cost of furnishings has to been met entirely by the organisation. 
So in actual fact, because of today's costs, it is not a $2 for $ 1 subsidy. It is really more like a $ 1 for $1 subsidy. The result of having to put down at least a one-third down payment ensures that the areas of greatest need are not necessarily the areas that receive the assistance. They are not necessarily the projects that receive, firstly, approval in principal from the Federal-State coordinating committee on the provision of nursing homes for the aged and, secondly, after approval is granted, funds from the Federal Department of Social Security. What is required as a matter of urgency is an amendment to the Aged Persons Homes Act to give the Federal-State committee the power to direct Federal funds on a full basis and according to need. 
Further I draw the attention of the House to the real cuts in this area that have been implemented by the present Government. In 1975 $30m was allocated to this area. In the Budget last Tuesday night I noted that only $26. lm was allocated. That is a monetary cut of 15 per cent but when one takes into consideration inflation over the last few years, it is a real cut of almost 50 per cent. Why has the Government done this? Obviously it is completely obsessed with its monetarist economic policies. It is trying to cut back expenditure in the same way as it did with every other subject which was dealt with in the Budget, including welfare. Probably another reason is an unholy fear of recurrent expenditure. The House will be aware that the Commonwealth also has a responsibility to fund recurrent expenditure up to $19.65 a day for patients in approved homes. I also add that the patient has a responsibility too because funds are taken from his pension and the Act requires that only $7 be left for each patient after the balance is made up. If there were enough accommodation provided in Australia one could support that sort of proposition. 
What is that? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Cunningham will address the Chair. 
-I do not think that what the honourable member for Bendigo said is true. The point about it is that this Government's fear of inducing recurring expenditure is inhibiting the honourable member for Bendigo and the Government from providing the needed capital expenditure in this area, as I have just proved. I inform the House about the sort of situation this creates in some of the needy areas, such as in the electorate that I represent. The estimate of the Health Commission of New South Wales is that 50 beds ought to be available for every 1,000 people over 65 years of age. I am informed by the  Deputy  Director-General of Social Security that currently in the Wollongong-Shellharbour area, 328 beds are available. This is 22 beds for each 1 ,000 people over 65 years of age. That is not even one-half of the number the Health Commission of New South Wales said was required. True, stage 3 of the Illawarra Retirement Trust project providing an extra 80 beds at Woonona will go ahead but that will increase the number of beds available in the area to only 27 beds a thousand. 
I am informed that no further allocations for the present triennium have yet been made to my particular area which is a very large migrant and working class area. Currently, over 400 aged persons are being forced to go into homes outside this particular area. They are now residing in homes some 50, 200 or 300 miles away from their surviving spouses or families. Just imagine: 
We will all become old one day. People who cannot afford to have themselves looked after in private hospitals which this Government is so keen to establish find themselves in this very nasty situation. That is what is happening not only in my electorate but also in many areas throughout Australia. 
Let me give the House just one individual example: Only one week ago the relations of a 92 year-old blind woman came to me and said that she had been discharged from the Port Kembla Hospital on the advice of a doctor and had been taken home just two weeks before the relations consulted me. They asked whether I could help. My electorate secretary contacted not less than 1 8 nursing homes in the Illawarra, the tablelands and southern New South Wales areas. I shall quickly inform the House of the situation. At Chesalon, there were no beds and a long waiting list of two years; at Coniston, a wait of 6 months to one year; at Garrawarra- the only public home in the south west area- a considerable waiting period; at Mount Warrigal, a waiting period of five years; at Villa Maria, no possibility; at Olunda, a few months at the earliest; at Chesalon, Nowra, there was no hope; at the Nowra Rest Home, there were no beds; and so it goes on and on. That is the situation in New South Wales in this particularly vexing area. A great need exists for the provision of geriatric facilities and nursing homes in Australia. A great need also exists to stimulate the building industry which is in its biggest post World War II slump. Why should we not try-- 
-The mind boggles at the audacity of honourable members on the Government side in charging our Party with instigating violence. This allegation sits ill on their shoulders. They are from a party that sent 5 10 young Australians to their death in Vietnam; a party that perpetrated violence on the Australian Constitution in 1975. Yet they have the utter gall to accuse the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the Premier of New South Wales of inciting people to violence! We do not support the actions of a minority of people who, in their frustration, attacked the property of the Sydney Stock Exchange. But we must protest in the strongest possible terms at the wording of this matter of public importance in which it is implicit that the Premier of New South Wales, the premier State in the Commonwealth, and the Leader of the Opposition are not entitled to address a public meeting of Australians in opposition to these Budget measures. 
Of course there would be many Australians who would be opposed to the Budget measures. In every sense it is a bully's Budget. In virtually all points it can be viewed only as a vicious assault on those Australians who are least able to defend themselves. If I judge correctly the contents of this horror Budget, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  believes that the low and middle income earners, the aged and the unemployed are to be instruments that will be used in a most callous way to reduce inflation in this country. He has an obsession with reducing inflation in this country. He is prepared to increase the number of unemployed in Australia simply to get inflation down by a point or half a point. By asserting barefacedly its intention to screw down real wages the Government is in fact seeking to screw down the living standards of the great mass of Australian workers. Of course they would be upset by the Budget. By refusing to stimulate the Australian economy the Fraser Government seeks to create a vast reserve army of unemployed Australians. While the outmoded reactionary policies of this Government continue to operate hundreds of thousands of young Australians are doomed to remain in the ranks of the unemployed, and that is a fact because the Budget itself admits it. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had the audacity to say in his electorate last Sunday that this Budget was well received by the Australian people. The  Chairman  of one of the stock exchanges made a public statement that in his opinion it was a good Budget. Perhaps the most cynical and provocative statement of all was that of the Treasurer, who, in his own words, said 'in framing our decisions we have been guided by a desire to share fairly the burdens of reducing inflation throughout the Australian community. The whole basis of the massive resentment and opposition to this Budget is that the problems now facing the people are not being shared equally. That is the point. The reason for the massive demonstrations throughout Australia is that the burdens are not being shared equally. That is why 10,000 people protested in Sydney. I ask honourable members to note that 10,000 people were involved. At the moment the Prime Minister could not get 100 people to a meeting to defend the Budget. Such a meeting could be held in a telephone booth. It would be interesting to see how many people the Government could get at a meeting it arranged in support of the Budget. Decent and honest Australian wage and salary earners are entitled to voice their revulsion at the Budget. 
The Government has an obsession with pruning the deficit and with reducing government expenditure. In so doing it has brought forward a number of most reprehensible measures, including most reprehensible income raising ventures and ones concerning cuts in government expenditure. The broken promises of the Prime Minister and the Government are legend. The Prime Minister promised to maintain Medibank. Where does it stand? He promised to maintain wage indexation, yet the Government has opposed it at every wage case since its election in 1975. The Prime Minister promised to maintain the value of pensions, yet the Government has reduced the granting of increases based on the consumer price index to once yearly increases. He promised to introduce tax cuts to aid economic recovery and to boost the income of Australian wage and salary earners. Of course we all know what happened to the tax cuts of last February. I will come to that in a moment. It is little wonder that the people of Australia are disillusioned. My illustrious predecessor- the late and great Rex Connor- had a saying which he used often. It was very short and simple. He used to say: 'The Australian people can be led but never driven'. I suggest that honourable members opposite should remember that saying when they accuse the Premier of New South Wales and the Leader of the Opposition of attempting to incite violence when in fact they were lawfully addressing a public meeting of Australians. 
I want to canvass quickly some of the most objectionable features of the policies that incited behaviour such as that which occurred at the Sydney Stock Exchange. I refer firstly to the conglomeration of measures that goes under the name of this Government's crude oil policies. This Government has sought to achieve the impossible- that is, to maximise profits for oil companies and to maximise returns to the Government- and finished up with a twin policy which will not work and which will be highly inflationary. It will ensure that the oil companies will receive some $350m in profits this year and some $750m by 1980 and this will force up the price of petrol not by 16c a gallon as the Treasurer says- he could not even get that right- but, according to media reports, the more likely sum of 2 lc a gallon. 
What nonsense it is when the Treasurer says that the burdens will be shared equally. One must look at the tax surcharge of 1.5c in the dollar in conjunction with the so-called tax cuts of February. When one does that one can see that the vast majority of workers have had their tax cuts wiped out completely. Yet the person on $580 a week or $600 a week who received a $30 a week cut last February will still retain at least $ 1 6 a week of that tax cut. They are the measures which are concerning the Australian people. This Budget has achieved the remarkable feat of alienating every section of the Australian people except the parasites of the stock exchange and their representatives in capital. This Budget will strip the economy of over $700m. It will strip the economy of $ 1 43m in housing funds alone. 
-This was a horror Budget in every sense of word. The Australian people know it, the Opposition knows it and this Government knows it too. Despite the rhetoric of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  about sharing burdens equally, the Budget deliberately sets out to force low income earners, the aged, family breadwinners and the unemployed to pick up the tab for the Government's obsession with lowering inflation by reducing government expenditure and the money supply. 
The Budget's excesses are legion. They include the unfair tax surcharge, the regressive rise in indirect taxation, the attack on pensioners by reverting to yearly indexation and the freezing of pensions for those over 70 years in accordance with the general means test on the aged. It attacks the young unemployed by freezing the benefits to below the Henderson poverty level figure for recipients with no dependants. The Government now says that the infamous attempt to tax children's pocket money by attacking the family allowances of their mothers will be reviewed- no doubt as a result of the massive clamour throughout the land. The Government has broken its promise to maintain wage indexation, to maintain Medibank and to provide jobs for all who want to work. The overview of this Budget was to provide a general deficit of $2813m. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and next Prime Minister of Australia last night outlined our alternative policies. The people of Australia will note that Labor would drop the reprehensible aspects of this rich man's Budget. 
We would reverse the attacks on the age pensioners and the unemployed, drop the discriminatory sales tax increases and the inflationary hike in crude oil prices. Labor's alternative Budget is a stimulatory document. It would reduce revenue by some $470m and increase spending by $5 50m. There would be an increase in the total deficit of over $ 1000m and a net increase of some $840m. But the important point is that the changes would occur within the domestic economy. 
The reduction in revenue would increase consumer spending. The increases in outlay relate to employment creation, such as capital expenditure for housing and construction. It is the type of program that Australia needs. The overall balance of payments situation is highly disturbing. One notes that whereas there was a trade surplus of $839m for 1977-78 there was a deficit of invisibles of $3,250m which means that the current trade account was $2,409m in the red. No wonder the Commonwealth was forced to borrow $ 1,806m in 1977-78 from abroad. 
I draw to the attention of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  the man who hounded Labor Ministers on these matters, the fact that this Government is forced to borrow to protect the dollar from the consequences of its ineptitude. Labor would have borrowed to invest in Australia's development. The Government has no plans to rectify the deteriorating situation regarding net invisibles in the balance of payments situation. It expects the current account deficit in 1978-79- this is clear in the Budget papers- to continue running at about the rate recorded in the second half of 1977-78. This would result in a higher deficit in our balance of trade for 1978-79, according to the Budget papers. 
Where are the plans to expand our overseas shipping services and the Australian National Line? Where are the plans for a national insurance company to cover insurance premiums on exports and imports? There are none. These two matters- the handing of freight charges to overseas shipping combines and insurance charges to overseas insurance companies- are the two biggest factors in this deficit section of the balance of payments crisis. The Government rails at the European Economic Community because there is a trade imbalance, in the main caused by invisibles. It also borrows to prop up the dollar. But it stands timid and helpless on these great national matters. 
Perhaps the most provocative Budget statements were the Government's threats to sack its own workers if they do not accept wage cuts. That is what the words of the Treasurer amounted to. There is no evidence to suggest that there is any remaining real 'wage overhang', to use the Treasury jargon. The simple fact is that persons on $200 a week have suffered a real wage loss of 8 per cent or $15 a week since December 1975. How low will this Government drive the workers before its anti-inflationary employment creating policies start to work? Of course the workers are entitled to full wage indexation to compensate for the price increases that have already occurred. The Government cannot even get its figures right on the consumer price index increases. The Treasurer says that the CPI figure for 1977-78 registered 7.9 per cent but the Budget Papers say it was 9.5 per cent. The Government now predicts that there will be an inflation rate of 6 per cent for 1978-79. At the same time it opposes any wage increase and urges that there be once yearly hearings of the national wage case. This is simply an undisguised assault on the living standards of the workers. 
I turn now to the greatest assault of all in this Budget on economic recovery. I refer to the reduction in expenditure for housing construction. The Housing Industry Association says that only 116,000 new dwellings were commenced last year and that this was the lowest figure in 1 1 years. It is further estimated that there will be a 40,000 shortfall in housing construction during 1978-79. There are 100,000 families awaiting housing commission accommodation in Australia but the completion rate for commission dwellings is currently less than 1 1 ,000 a year. Yet the Government has cut total housing expenditure by $143.6m, including a $74m cut in advances to the State housing commissions and terminating building societies under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  says that this cut will be counteracted by State income from sales and rents and by a reduction of 5 per cent in the proportion of savings bank deposits required to be held by the Reserve Bank. But there is no guarantee that the majority of this money will be used for housing loans. How can the Government give that guarantee? 
High interest rates still prevent low and middle income earners from seeking housing loans. Despite the rhetoric of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  bond interest rates have fallen by only 0.5 per cent- from 9.5 per cent to 9 per cent- since December last year. How can a wage earner with a disposable after-tax income of $150 to $160 a week pay $40 or $50 a week rent and still save for a deposit on a housing loan? Assuming he gets a loan and pays $50 a week or so in repayments, how can the family exist on the remaining $ 100 to $ 1 10 a week? No wonder there is a large stock of spec built homes on the market in the midst of this housing crisis. The Government must accept the Opposition's housing policy about injecting an extra $450m into housing and construction to enable the State housing commissions and the terminating building societies to build homes for rental and sale at lower interest rates. 
The Government now has a conglomeration of conflicting proposals that it passes off as a national crude oil policy. Last year we were informed that the proportion of oil per field to be sold at import parity prices would be 10 per cent of production for 1977 and would then rise to 20 per cent, 35 per cent and 50 per cent in 1978, 1979 and 1980 respectively. The Government also imposed a munificent sum of $3 per barrel on this so-called import parity oil. Little wonder the oil companies, including Esso-BHP, were laughing. Naturally they laughed because they gained approximately $340m in windfall profits during 1977. Remember how the Government, after flirting with the idea of imposing a resources rent tax, renounced this idea last month? Now we know why. 
In one inflationary swoop, the Government has introduced full import parity for all Australian crude with the extra revenue collected going to the Government. But this decision was based not on the need for conservation of oil resources, not on the necessity to raise finance for oil exploration and so on but on the obsession to reduce the Budget deficit. But has the Government really decided to use windfall oil profits for the benefit of the nation in the long term? Indeed, it has not, for we learn in the Treasurer's own words that the levy will remain at $18.90 per kilolitre- $3 per barrel- on import parity oil. As the proportion of that oil in total production increases, collections from the new rates of levy will fall. So the oil companies will lose nothing. On the contrary, their windfall profits will increase enormously as the 1977 parity scheme phases into 50 per cent operation. The end result is a highly inflationary price hike in petrol of 2 lc a gallon. 
Nothing could illustrate more forcefully the need for a resources rent tax to replace the present shameful exploitation of our precious non-renewable resources. We could replace the present inadequate crude oil levies, and the coal export levy, with a simple resources rent tax introduced at an appropriate threshold as a percentage of capital investment and operating thereafter at a fixed percentage of profits. This would prevent the scandalous situation where the exhorbitant windfall profits of $575m in 1978-79 accruing to ESSO-BHP will rocket to $700m in 1980 and a further astronomical figure when revenues resulting from complete import parity fully accrue to the oil companies. Such a resources tax, replacing the present ill-founded crude oil levies, would mean Australia could impose a fixed price for Australian crude oil at substantially less than import parity. It would ensure that adequate revenues always return to government and that a fair level of profit- say 15 per cent of the total investment- remained with the company. It would provide large sums that could be used for oil exploration, coal liquefaction, the development of natural gas fields and ultimately the development of resources under public ownership. 
The Utah Development Corporation has just announced a profit of $91m for the first six months of 1978. In 1977 the Corporation paid $79.3m for coal export levies and declared $ 1 58m after tax profit. Its capital investment was $5 30m. On these figures, if a resource tax at a 15 per cent threshold level and 100 per cent thereafter were to replace the present coal export levy this tax would have yielded $ 157.8m in revenue, and Utah would have retained $79.5m profit after paying company and resources rent tax. Instead of imposing a resources rent tax on the usage and export of our precious natural resources, the Government timidly proposed an extra branch profit tax of 5 per cent of taxable income on companies with overseas parents. Such a tax will raise a mere $8m in extra revenue. 
I turn now to the ill thought out changes in the health scheme and the abolition of Medibank Standard. The Government proposes in substitution a 40 per cent payment of schedule fees for all members of the community with a $20 limit being the patient's responsibility. It is obvious that the Government has broken its promise in regard to maintaining Medibank Standard. Why has it done so? I suggest that it has done so not because of a desire to improve medical services or to improve the health scheme but simply as a means of lowering the consumer price index figure. The Government is prepared to spend an extra $62 lm - 
Debate interrupted. 
-This Bill, which rebates finance from the so called 1977 import parity scheme for Australian crude oil to the oil companies minus the inadequate $3 per barrel federal levy, is a most important Bill, if for no other reason than that it exposes the complete inadequacy of the Government's crude oil policy. Even more important will be the legislation to be introduced later in this session to give effect to the Government's latest guidelines- that is, the move to full import parity in one fell swoop with the excess income over and above the 1 977 crude oil policies accruing to the Government. Australia has resources of four main fossil fuelspetroleum, natural gas, black coal and brown coal. Of these precious non-renewable resources it is most certain that petroleum will be the first to be exhausted. Whilst our resources of black and brown coal are virtually proven and we are certain that Australia possesses vast reserves of natural gas, it is most doubtful whether adequate reserves of crude oil will be discovered to service Australia's long term petroleum needs. 
At present, Australia's estimated crude oil resources are a meagre 0.2 per cent of world crude oil reserves. The Middle East and Persian Gulf countries, of course, hold the major portion of these reserves at 56 per cent of total world crude oil reserves. North Sea oil, at present shared by the United Kingdom and Norway, is 4.5 per cent of world crude oil reserves. Oil comes in at only 0.9 per cent of Australia's total fossil fuel reserves. I point out that the 96.8 per cent of Australia 's fossil fuel reserves is provided by coal deposits. In this situation, it is unbelievable that this Australian Government is handing out vast sums to Esso-BHP and other oil companies without any firm guarantees that adequate exploration will be undertaken or maintained on a rationalised government-directed basis. 
The fact is that this Government has no clear policies designed to rationalise exports of energy resources in line with our own future domestic needs here in Australia. It has no policies to ensure oil exploration and government dissemination of information, and most damning of all it has no long term guarantees that an adequate return to the public purse will be forthcoming from the usage of our precious resources. This Government is revolving in circles on oil policy and is contradicting itself from year to year. Its policy is confused, inflationary, and one can say that only the oil companies are satisfied. Let me examine this situation. In the 1977-78 Budget we were informed that the proportion of oil per field to be sold at import parity prices would be 10 per cent of production for 1977, rising to 20 per cent in 1978, 35 per cent in 1979 and 50 per cent in 1980. In 1977-78 the Government collected approximately $ 180m from its $3 per barrel levy but directed a straight handout of $340m to the oil companies. 
Now the Government has shocked the Parliament, the nation, the motorists and perhaps even the companies themselves by announcing that full import parity prices will now be paid by refineries for all Australian crude oil with the extra income over and above that derived from the 1977 Budget- I know the policy is confusing but bear with me for a moment- accruing to the Government. It expects to gain $676m in extra revenue directly paid by the Australian consumers, as petrol will rise by 2 lc a gallon. I know that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said in his Budget Speech the rise will be 16c a gallon, but honourable members will be aware that the latest information is that the price hike in petrol prices will be 21c a gallon. I might add that this comes on top of the 1 lc a gallon increase in the 1977-78 Budget. That makes a savage increase of over 32c a gallon in the price of petrol in the past 12 months. 
That is what happened as a result of the last Budget. The price of petrol has been increased by at least 1 lc a gallon in the past 12 months and now the Government is going to put it up by another 2 lc. 
-That is the figure that has been generally circulated. I hope that it will not be 2 lc a gallon but that is the figure that the media is disseminating- not 16c a gallon. It will be interesting to note what the final figure is. But even if it is only 16c a gallon it will mean that in just 13 months the Government has raised petrol prices by 27c a gallon. The point is that as the 1 977 import parity policy still stands as an essential part of the new policy, there will be an annually decreasing percentage of extra revenue accruing to the Government. If the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  is not concerned about that I can assure him that we on this side of the House are concerned about it. An increasing share will be accruing to the oil companies; that is, windfall profits of approximately $575m to Esso-BHP in 1978-79, a figure which will expand to $700m or more in 1980 when 50 per cent import parity is achieved under the 1977 policy. Of course, it will go up to an as yet unguessed at figure when the proportion of oil in the total production of import parity prices accrues fully to the oil companies less the pitful $3 per barrel Federal levy. 
The purpose of this legislation and the legislation still to come to legalise this year's Budget decisions can be said to have two motives: The first is to force Australian motorists to pay inflationary petrol prices as a means of satisfying Government obsessions with reducing the overall Budget deficit. The Government forgets that it is taking $676m out of the pockets of Australian consumers, money that should have gone toward increasing consumer demand for housing and hard durables to aid economic recovery. Perhaps there could be an argument even for this action if the Government expanded its expenditure on job creation projects such as housing construction by State housing commissions or regeneration of industries such as shipbuilding to ease the burden of the drain on the balance of payments or to develop an Australian petrochemicals industry to produce petrochemicals such as methanol and ultimately petrol from natural gas. Perhaps a program of coal liquefaction would have been in order but no- this money has been used to satisfy the bureaucratic single-minded obsession of reducing the paper deficit. The other motive behind this legislation, of course, is to return the maximum possible amount to the Government's friends, the oil companies. 
Let me just digress briefly to deal with the possibilities in this field. I understand that the Government of South Australia is now seeking loans to satisfy the infrastructure required for a new petrochemicals plant at Redcliff in South Australia, finance to produce housing, gas pipelines and rail links- a massive project that might employ some 5,000 people when it peaks in 1981, and provide 1,500 permanent jobs. That is the sort of thing that we should be doing with income derived from oil, not letting it accrue as windfall profits to the oil companies. 
This mishmash of non-policy should be replaced by a general resources tax. Such a tax could be implemented in a number of ways but it should apply to the usage for export and domestic purposes of all our non-renewable energy resources. It should apply to oil, coal and natural gas. The resources rent tax could be considered on a differential basis- industry by industry, company by company and perhaps even regarding oil on a well to well basis. But the important thing is that such a tax should replace the present unsatisfactory combination of levies and handouts. For instance, it could apply to Esso-BHP at an appropriate threshhold level as a percentage of total investment and then at an appropriate percentage thereafter. It could apply in the case of coal to the Utah Development Company. It should replace the coal export levy. On 1977-78 company figures, a resources tax imposed at a 1 5 per cent threshhold level and 100 per cent thereafter would have accrued $158m in government revenue and Utah would still have retained some $80m in profit. Compare this against the return in 1977 from the coal levy on Utah which amounted to only $79m. Australia is one of the few countries which allow their natural energy assets to be ripped ofT so completely by private exploitation. 
Even such a taxation policy as I have outlined is considered inadequate by all of the major oil producing countries. The Middle East nations have policies ranging from complete state ownership under national oil corporations to participation arrangements either directly or through a state oil company. The United Kingdom Government in January 1976 set up the British Oil Corporation to participate in the development of North Sea oil resources. The British National Oil Corporation currently participates in the development of five oil wells in the North Sea and in the Viking natural gas field. It is considered by the United Kingdom Government that that is just a start. The official British Information Service bulletin entitled 'British Industry Today- Energy ' states: 
The Government considers that majority State participation in licences for commercial oil-fields provides the best means for the nation to share fully in the benefits of offshore oil. Majority participation through the BNOC-- 
That is, the British National Oil Corporation- in existing commercial oil-fields is being achieved by negotiations with the licencees; by late 1977 participation agreements had been concluded with 19 companies and outline agreements with 22 others. State corporations have a majority share in licences awarded in 1 977 under the fifth round of off-shore petroleum production licensing. 
So it goes on. The situation in Norway, the other nation involved in the development of the North Sea oil resources, is that in October 1976 the Norwegian Government proposed to establish a state dominated marketing company. The new state marketing company will supply 24 per cent of Norway's market for oil products and own more than 30 per cent of the country's gasoline stations. It will be owned 7 1 per cent by the Norwegian state, 15 per cent by Statoil, 6.7 per cent by Norsk Hydro, 5.2 per cent by Saga, and so on. Such is the situation in Norway. It is not considered to be a true socialist country, simply a Western European democratic socialist state. Similarly, in Kuwait- hardly the most socialist inclined of the Middle East countries- the situation is that the Kuwait Government acquired a 60 per cent interest in the Kuwait Oil Company. In November 1975 the Kuwait Government took over the remaining 40 per cent. 
I digress slightly to discuss alternative possibilities to oil production in Australia. It is possible- certainly it is likely- that we will not find adequate oil reserves for our needs in the near future. It may be that we will have to examine very closely the possibility of establishing petrochemical plants. There is a possibility that new production techniques will enable the production from natural gas of a substance called methanol which may ultimately satisfy 15 per cent to 25 per cent of Australia's petroleum needs, either as an additive to petrol refined from crude oil or by ultimate conversion from natural gas to methanol and then to petrol. This is the type of project to which we ought to be diverting some of the massive amount of finance that will be generated towards the Government this year as a result of the new oil policies outlined in the Budget. This is the type of project on which we ought to be spending the money that could be generated by imposing a resource tax on, say, the Utah Development Company. What could be more suitable than that? If we are to continue exporting coal- true we should export coal to satisfy the needs of some of our trading partners such as Japan- the major percentage of the returns from the export of coal should be diverted as part of an overall Australian fuel and energy policy towards investigation and exploration of the means of satisfying our own future needs in the way I have just outlined. 
The overseas experience is that oil companies must accept that the State has a major role to play in fuel exploration. The majority world view now is that non-renewable energy resources are national property. Furthermore, they are a capital asset. In regard to natural gas, coal and oil resources, there is really no shortage of money for capital development purposes. The resource itself is the guarantee. There is a real and overriding need to look at the whole of our industrial, manufacturing, minerals and energy situation in a general perspective. The weaknesses in Australian manufacturing are interrelated with our potential strengths in minerals and energy. Australian governments must create a mechanism whereby the earnings from our strengths are invested in new Australian industries, are used to revitalise existing Australian industries and are used to provide finance for future mineral and energy developments in accordance with an established, accepted and well understood national energy policy. 
In short, Australia's resources must serve Australia. Under this Government they are not serving Australia's interests in full. This Government will not ensure that there will be a situation in which they will serve Australia's interests in full. I believe that only the next Australian Labor Party government will ensure such a situation. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
-When the debate was interrupted last night I was saying that this Government was prepared to forgo $62 lm, including $3 16m as a result of the abolition of the Medibank standard levy, in its misguided changes to the Australian health insurance and health system. It has done this merely to reduce the consumer price index for the next year, not to improve the health services available to the Australian people. 
I charge and my party charges that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Government have been very devious about their changes to the health insurance system. They have pitched the 40 per cent subsidy payable to people who choose not to be insured and to all people who join private insurance funds just high enough to tempt the unwary person, the family man who may rue the day when he fell for the Minister's blandishments. Many families in Australia may not insure themselves. They may accept the Government's pledges that they will be paid 40 per cent of their medical bills, with a $20 limit on what they have to pay, and then suffer the catastrophe of sudden and serious illness themselves or in their families. Where will they be then? Worse still, it will create two groups in the public with regard to health insurance. The first group will consist of those who opt out of the systemthe young, the healthy, those who gravitate to the 40 per cent system. The second group will consist of families, the sick and middle-aged people who, of course, will not take the gamble on their future good health. They will have to join a private health insurance fund. That will create a situation which is actuarily unsound with regard to insurance principles. The Minister for 
Health knows that and the Government knows it. 
Amazingly, the medical bills of people who have been identified by their doctors as socially disadvantaged will be bulk-billed direct. Their doctors will be paid 75 per cent for all services, regardless of cost. That is the pledge of the Minister. What that really means is that the Government is asking doctors to be unpaid social security agents of the Government. They are asked to be the sole judges of those in need. Is the Government really serious about this? Is it offering any criteria? Will the Minister for Health, who I see is now in the chamber, offer some guidelines to the Government? It seems to me that the doctors of some so-called needy people will receive 75 per cent of the bill and will accept that as full payment; and those people who do not get the doctor's pat will receive 40 per cent of the bill from the Government and pay the other 60 per cent themselves. If there are 30,000 doctors in Australia, it is possible that there might be 30,000 different guidelines with regard to the needs criteria. I think the Minister should make an announcement about that and clarify the situation. 
Further, it is interesting to note that the sum that the Government has forgone as a result of its health changes is approximately equal to the $570m that it hopes to gain as a result of its changes to the tax system. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. Is it a fact that as a result of the Government's crude oil pricing policy oil producers will receive a total pre-tax windfall profit of about $340m in 1978-79, an increase of $ 180m over last year's total? Further, following the Budget announcement, will oil producers receive an additional $440m next year as windfall profit and will the revenue raised by the Government through the crude oil levy fall by about $ 100m? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
How many major accidents have occurred during stevedoring operations on the waterfront in Australian ports in each State during the last S years. 
How long is it since the Navigation (Loading and Unloading Safety Measures) Regulations have been reviewed. 
How many Navigation Inspectors are employed for the purpose of policing these Regulations throughout Australia. 
Will he give an assurance that all Inspectors will be domiciled in the immediate port area to avoid unnecessary delays on cargo handling operations as a result of safety disputes and to improve waterfront safety. 
Will he consider making appropriate arrangements with the States to allow the development of uniform loading and unloading regulations covering both ship and shore installations to replace the present situation where stevedoring operations on shore are conducted under the control of the various State Departments of Labour and Industry. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to public accusations that he has been disloyal to his Joint Chiefs of Staff? What action has the Minister taken or what action does he intend to take about these most serious public allegations? 
-Since the Telecom dispute we have witnessed confrontations involving industrial renegades seeking to enjoy the benefits of trade unionism while refuting their obligations and a major dispute resulting from stand-downs in container terminals on the Australian waterfront. What is the reason for this sudden support for non-unionists and industrial provocation by waterfront employers? Is it because the Government and some employers recognise that only the trade union movement prevents the use of the vast army of the unemployed to reduce the living standards of workers? 
It is desirable that people join unions from conviction rather than from legal compulsion but, not surprisingly, most trade unions insist on full coverage within their area of work. The Government now upholds the rights of so-called conscientious objectors. It did not do so when it sent young Australians to die in Vietnam. Trade unionists rightly refused to work with those who would accept the gains of collective action but who would refuse to contribute towards achieving them. As one union leader puts it: 'This Miss Biggs might have her conscientious beliefs that she should not be in a union, but there are 3,500 others who have a conscientious belief that she should be in a union'. 
I turn now to the situation on the Australian waterfront. A national strike has developed because of the foolish action of Seatainers and Liner Services Ltd in standing down 500 Melbourne waterside workers as a result of a dispute by members of other unions. Historically, there have been no stand-downs on the Australian waterfront since 1914. Honourable members opposite should understand that these workers consider it a matter of deep principle. Members of the Foremen Stevedores Association, an organisation not noted for industrial militancy, have now joined the dispute. Under Federal legislation introduced last October, waterside workers work either with operational companies or in terminals. Men transfer from company to company but not from container terminals. Employers refused a concessional option of transferring these Melbourne terminal men to conventional stevedoring operations. They were more interested in confrontation. 
Honourable members opposite should understand the history of the Australian waterfront. Fewer than 10,000 men are now employed there whereas 25 years ago almost 30,000 men were employed. Roll-on roll-off ships, bulk loading, mechanisation and the great mistake of containerisation instead of investment in unit load ships have taken their toll of jobs. The waterfront experience preceded the present concern about the computer holocaust. But agreement was reached for redundancy payments, a 35-hour week and a pension scheme featuring early optional retirement. Unionists in terminal operations work continuous shift work. This means the 35 hours are worked by a system of five shifts on, three shifts off. In return, the employers know that they will receive a service 24 hours a day, seven days a week. These stand-downs in Melbourne are a deliberate attempt to wreck a system which cannot function unless the men know that they will not be subjected to sudden deprivation of earnings from disputes over which they have no control. If the waterfront employers wish to wreck the system which guarantees labour at any time and at all hours, their deliberate, insensitive, provocative and unprincipled action in Melbourne will do so. 
There is a great need for a single industry union on the Australian waterfront. There is no need for this vital industry to be covered by waterside workers in stevedoring operations, clerks keeping cargo tallies, members of the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemens Association and the Federated Ironworkers Association driving cranes and storemen and packers filling containers. Therein lies the seeds of real industrial confrontation. The folly of the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour in standing down waterside workers has widened this dipute and made it harder to solve. Now that 70-odd maintenance men have returned to work, we are still left with a national dispute. Now the Waterside Workers Federation will probably seek payment for its members wrongfully stood down during this dispute and will seek a pledge that it will not happen again. If these measures are not forthcoming, the nation could face complete disruption whenever the employers seek confrontation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Did the Minister send a telex to the Northern Land Council on 1 1 September, or any other date, stating that a resolution passed by a meeting of Aboriginal coastal communities at Galiwinku opposing the immediate signing of the Ranger agreement was irrelevant and should not be discussed at the forthcoming Northern Land Council meeting? Is it true that 12 members of the Northern Land Council were present at the meeting that passed this resolution? 
-The Treasury and the Government are to blame for bringing down a most contractionary document to guide our economic fortunes over the next 12 months. The Budget deficit is expected to be $2,800m. More important than this is that the domestic deficit is expected to be $ 1,669m, which represents a $782m reduction from the previous Budget. The Budget also provided for a number of most regressive taxes, particularly the surcharge on income tax, the extra tax on petrol and the indirect tax on spirits. The point is that this will remove some $2,000m from a sick economy. The economy is in deep enough recession; it is contracting enough without removing such a massive sum from the pockets of consumers. 
I am particularly concerned about the attack on the finances of local government. Honourable members may remember that in November last year and again at this year's Premiers Conference the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  promised to raise local government's share of Federal revenue to 2 per cent over the next three years. Of course in this Budget no increase whatsoever has been made, and local government is still stuck with 1.52 per cent of Federal personal income tax receipts. Two per cent would not be enough to fund the needs of local government. If 2 per cent had been granted, another $5 7m would have been made available to local governments throughout the country. In my electorate of Cunningham this increase would have resulted in another $750,000 being allocated to the Wollongong City Council and the Shellharbour Municipal Council. It is not a great amount; nevertheless, it could have gone some way towards creating jobs for the 9,000 unemployed people in that area. 
I turn now to taxation policy. The whole point about the Government's taxation policy is that it is regressive and most unfair. The surcharge of 1.5c in the dollar was an unmitigated attack on lower income earners. The rise in oil prices, caused by the move in one year to full import parity, will produce an extra $670m for the Government. This amount of money could well have been left with the workers this year to increase consumer demand. The increase in indirect taxes, as I have already said, is most inequitable. The Government can be expected to move towards a value added tax because that will be consistent with its taxation policies. A value added tax would be completely wrong for Australia at this time, because it is accumulative at all stages of production of goods and services and, in the end, it is the consumer who pays it. A value added tax is regressive; it is repressive; and it is inequitable. 
Whilst the Government makes all these moves with regard to regressive taxation measures, it forfeits completely its rights to impose such measures as a resources tax on exploitation of our non-renewable energy resources, a capital gains tax, or a wealth tax with an appropriate threshold level. Australia is one of the few countries that do not have taxes of these kinds. But this Government has renounced them. It says that now it will be satisfied with a branch profits tax of 5 per cent of taxable income. It will impose that tax on Australian branches of overseas companies resident in Australia. If such a tax were applied to the Utah Development Co. it would raise only about $16m, whereas a properly constituted resources tax at the appropriate threshold of, say 15 per cent to 18 per cent on funds invested- and at the appropriate level of 60 per cent to 70 per cent thereafter- would return at least an extra $110m in revenue to the Australian Treasury. 
I move to another section of the Budget Papers. I refer to the balance of payments, which is in a terrible position. The current trade account shows that exports were $12,043 billion and imports were $1 1.204 billion. This left it $840m in surplus. But when we come to the invisibles we see that there was a haemorrhage out of Australia of $3.25 billion, leaving an overall trade deficit in the current account of $2,41 lm- or 2.7 per cent of the gross domestic product. What a terrible indictment of the Australian Government's trade policies. The situation also is bad, of course, with regard to the European Economic Community, with a deficit of $2,500m which is virtually more than the total deficit for all Australian trade. 
But the point is that the Government worries only about the trade section of it. What is the Government doing about the invisibles section of it? Where are the plans to do something about the biggest two factors involved in this deficit? I refer to overseas charges for freight and insurance on exports and imports. Less than 2 per cent of our exports and imports are carried in Australian ships. There is no national insurance company to provide adequate insurance for our exports and imports. What is wrong with expanding the services of the Australian National Line to arrest this haemorrhage of our funds overseas? The situation with regard to exports of iron ore and coal is that the Australian National Line currently has four large bulk carriers but cargo for only two of them. I understand that two carriers currently are tied up in the Norwegian fiords because of lack of cargo in the immense trade with Japan. There is not one Australian-owned ship in the coal trade with Japan. Yet, the Utah Development Co. alone last year exported $620m worth of coal to Japan. 
The private sector exchange transactions section of the Budget also is in a deplorable position. In the first half of the year we were $ 1 .2 1 3m in deficit and only $ 1 1 m was picked up in the last half of the year, meaning that we were $ 1 ,200m in deficit. Both of these factors add to the balance of payments crisis- that the Government had to borrow a massive $ 1,800m to $ 1,900m from abroad last year to prop up the dollar and to avoid a further devaluation. It seems that there will be no early improvement in the position, because the Budget Papers state: 
The present financial year is unlikely to see major changes in Australia 's balance of payments position. The conjunction of a number of factors is likely to maintain a deficit in private sector external transactions and there will thus be a need for a continuation of the Government's overseas borrowing program, which has indeed already got underway in 1978-79. 
Similarly, regarding the trade position the Budget Papers state: 
The current account deficit in 1978-79 is expected to continue running at about the rate recorded in the second half of 1977-78. 
This Government's economic policies have failed. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In the last few days we have seen several significant backdowns by the Government on the more pernicious social security cuts in the recent Budget. In passing, I refer to the dropping of the iniquitous means testing of family allowances. The Government first moved from the imposition of a $6 threshold to the imposition of a $20 threshold; and then, of course, it scrapped the proposition altogether. It is hard to accept that the original intention was simply to prevent tax avoidance by some people by the use of family trusts into which children's unearned income is paid. If that was the real reason, why did not the Government just legislate to do that in the first place as part of the Budget, instead of attacking everyone including the lower income earners? When the Government was forced to back off it finally had to miss the people it said it intended to catch in the first place. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  glibly says now that he was wrong. Perhaps the victory of the new honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  last Saturday made the Treasurer admit that he was wrong. We note also that there have been backdowns in other significant areas, particularly with regard to the taxation of some social welfare payments to handicapped persons. I suggest that the cat is well and truly out of the bag. 
There ought to be more reviews because there are more pernicious aspects of this Budget that need to be changed. I sincerely hope that there are some back bench members in the Government ranks in this chamber and in the Senate who will show enough care for the ordinary people who are affected by the more vicious sections of the Budget to vote with the Opposition when the vote is taken. I make the suggestion that the reversion to yearly pension adjustments is the first matter that they might consider. As from November the age pension will be $53.20 for a single person and $88.70 for a married couple. If one assumes- this, of course, is a guestimate- an inflation rate of 3.5 per cent for the next six months, it will mean that the single age pensioner will be losing $1.86 a week after next May. That will accumulate to some $50 in total by November next year before they eventually are paid what they should be getting. It is more for the married couple, of course. The loss would amount to $3.10 a week. That would , mean that those pensioners would be robbed of $80 to $90 in six months. I ask the Government very seriously to reconsider this decision. 
Similarly reprehensible is the attempt to freeze unemployment benefit for people with no dependants. Going through that same sort of exercise, the lowest rate of unemployment benefitthat paid to the person under 18 years of age- has been frozen at $36 a week. If we apply that 3.5 per cent guesstimated rate of inflation over six months, the Government will knock off another $ 1 .22 a week. Where is the sense of that? Why bother? Why do it? Similarly, the person over 18 years of age, who is in receipt of $5 1.45 a week, will be robbed over 12 months of between $95 and $100. These are the very people who need the money to boost consumer spending, the very people who would have the propensity to spend. 
The other Budget proposal that really ought to be changed is the proposal to tax lump sum payments of workers' accumulated annual and long service leave. As honourable members know, it used to be taxed as to 5 per cent of the total accumulated. There has been some minor backdown by the Government. I note a proposition now to tax such payments at the flat rate of 33.5c in the dollar. Quite frankly, I think that the workers of Australia will say: 'Thanks for nothing'. They will not thank the Government for making that change, simply because the 33.5c in the dollar applies to people earning less than $ 16,000 a year and the vast majority of the work force earns less than $ 1 6,000 a year and certainly most - 
As the honourable member for Reid points out, 70 per cent of the work force earns less than $ 1 6,000. 1 have no doubt that that is correct. The important point is that most of the accumulated funds in this area certainly will total less than $16,000 anyway; so they would be taxed at only 33.5c in the dollar. The Government has not given them anything. All this is in complete contrast to the handouts in windfall profits to oil companies under the new import parity scheme, and in complete contrast to the renunciation of a resources tax on the Utah Development Co. and the statement by the Government that it will be satisfied with taxing repatriated earnings of companies such as the Utah company with a branch profits tax of 5 per cent on taxable income rather than what it should be- a resources or rent tax on the exploitation of our precious non-renewable energy reserves. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I should like to make some comment on pensions in general and the situation regarding Medibank. The position that has developed in Australia is that approximately 1.3 million age pensioners are paid, according to the Budget, a total of $3.26 billion. Of course, the age pension is only 23.5 per cent of the national average wage. In the long term we need to do much better than that. I doubt very much that we will do much better if we simply stick to the system of paying pensions out of taxation revenue. What I am saying is that we ought now to be seriously considering the implementation of a national superannuation scheme. Whether it is run on traditional investment funded lines or whether it is run on a pay-as you-go principle really is immaterial. The point is that it needs to be done and it must be done. Right now we have a number of existing superannuation schemes which are very good. Commonwealth public servants and State public servants such as teachers, pay about 5 per cent of their income in contributions to superannuation schemes and receive some 70 per cent of their earnings at the time of retirement as benefits. 
However, they are- if one can pardon the termthe fat cats of our society. Not many people are lucky enough to be in such a scheme. 
I believe that most of the industry and occupational schemes outside the government schemes are inadequate- I have had some experience with them- and that we ought to be devising a two-tier pension scheme where we have a base pension paid out of taxation and then offer an optional second tier to people who do not have the opportunity to be in these government or industry schemes, or to people who are in the worst industry schemes and they think that they could do better by opting out of these schemes and joining a government scheme. 
My final points relate to Medibank. The Government has destroyed Medibank standard and contributors must now join a private health fund, be satisfied with a refund of 40 per cent of medical bills, with a $20 patient limit on each bill, and be content with standard hospital treatment. The Government will pay 40 per cent of scheduled doctors' expenses incurred by people in private funds. The peculiar point about these gyrations and changes in direction within our national health insurance scheme is that the whole structure of private health insurance is to be maintained simply so that people can be covered for the 35 per cent difference between the 40 per cent subsidy and 75 per cent to be returned by the funds. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I draw to the attention of the House a quite serious situation that has arisen in New South Wales because of the obsolescence of the Child Care Act of 1972. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has recently, for the purposes of payment of recurrent subsidies, approved graduates from some child care certificate courses as equivalent to a nurse under section 11(5) of Part III of the Child Care Act of 1972. The courses to which the approval refers are those conducted in North Sydney, Newcastle and Penrith technical colleges. The approval is retrospective to December 1976. Since the approval was given eight other technical colleges have started identical courses. No provision was made in the Act for graduates from these technical colleges to be subsidised. Consequently graduates from North Sydney, Penrith and Newcastle technical colleges are being employed and graduates from the Bankstown, St George and Wollongong technical colleges are being discriminated against. There are a number of other colleges- Armidale, Canberra, Nowra, Taree and Liverpool- which do not have graduates as yet, but which will have graduates next year. 
The point is that all of these colleges which provide courses in child care follow the same curriculum and their graduates submit to the same external examinations. Some six months ago the New South Wales Child Care Association requested an amendment of the Act to allow the recurrent subsidy for teachers to be paid to the pre-schools employing graduates from all of these colleges, not just from the three designated in the 1 976 Act. The Department of Social Security says that the situation is under review. Because there is no Federal subsidy graduates already employed at colleges other than the three that I have mentioned- Newcastle, Penrith and North Sydney- are currently being faced with dismissal notices because their employers are not eligible for the recurrent subsidy. In addition, prospective employers already are stressing that graduates must come from these three colleges. Advertisements to this effect have already appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald. 
I point out that one of these colleges, the Wollongong Technical College, is in my electorate of Cunningham. I understand that this year for the first time there will be 17 graduates from the chid care course at that college. They will not be eligible for the subsidy. At the end of this year five long-day care centres in Wollongong will be eligible for the subsidy but, as the Act now stands, in order to pick up the subsidy from the Department of Social Security, they will have to employ graduates from outside the area, that is from North Sydney, Penrith and Newcastle colleges. There is a great deal of resentment over this matter in my electorate and rightly so. I would imagine that in the other areas where these colleges that do not attract the subsidy exist the situation would be the same. 
There is a great deal of female unemployment on the South Coast of New South Wales. Failure to act quickly will mean that in my electorate jobs will be lost. Those students completing the child care courses within the Illawarra region will not get jobs in their own area. Particularly at a time of high female unemployment there can be only increasing resentment on the part of those discriminated against. At June 1978, 1,460 young females in the Wollongong District were unemployed. I am aware that the Child Care Act as a whole is under review. I believe that many sections need time consuming, thorough and intensive investigation but at the same time this appropriate amendment could and should be effected as a matter of urgency. I seek the immediate intervention of the Department of Social Security to rectify this gross injustice. 
-Having listened to the diatribe from the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  who was pontificating on his lack of intestinal fortitude, I say that it is no wonder - 
-In deference to you,  Mr Chairman,  I withdraw it, even though I do consider that he was pontificating. Having listened to the remarks of the honourable member, I say that it is no wonder that the pensioners, the mothers of children who earn income and the unemployed in New South Wales registered a vote against the Federal Government at last Saturday's State election. No doubt we will see a similar result in Victoria soon. I believe that in 1980 - 
-I am about to do that,  Mr Chairman.  With regard to what the Government has done to pensioners, I just wanted to say that I believe that in 1 980, pensioners will - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-Clause 8 excludes blind pensioners over the age of 70 from the provisions of clause 5, as I understand it. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  argued during his second reading speech that the decision to freeze pensions in accordance with the means test for pensioners over the age of 70 was insignificant. He should not have frozen them for any pensioners over the age of 70. He should not have just included permanently blind pensioners in relation to the indexing of pensions. He said this would only reduce pensions for single pensioners by 50c a week in the dollar for income above $20 and by 25c a week for every dollar earned above $34.50 by married couples. If the amount involved is so insignificant, according to the Minister for Health, why did he do this in the first place? Why did he renege on yet another election promise? Clauses 5 to 8 attack all pensioners and the permanently blind. In this legislation we can see the Government's viciousness in all its horror. It proposes to index pensions on 1 November for permanently blind pensioners for the year ending 30 June last. This means that pensioners, including blind pensioners- all pensioners for that matter- must now wait up to 16 months for their meagre catch-up indexation payments. 
At the very least, single blind pensioners will be robbed of a total of $55 because of the move to yearly indexation and a married blind pensioner couple will be robbed of $93. That is what those pensioners should have received for the last half of the year prior to 1 November 1979. We in the Opposition believe that pension benefits, including those for the permanently blind, should be adjusted quarterly at the first pay-day after the consumer price index figures are announced. The Government, rather than give hand-outs to people on $60,000 or $80,000 a year like the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  should allow pensioners to spend a Utile more! 
I address my remarks to clause 21.I ask the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  why he decided to cancel the maternity allowance which has been pegged at $30 since 1943. The Minister in his second reading speech said that costs associated with confinements are now largely covered by health insurance. I do not think that is so under the new arrangements. Later today we will talk about the new misguided health policies. But what about the people who cannot afford to pay private health premiums and simply stay with the general 40 per cent subsidy? Will they be covered adequately in respect of confinements, as the Minister said in his second reading speech? I note that the scheduled confinement fee is currently $176 plus extras? I point out to the Minister that although there is a $20 limit under the new scheme on what the patient will pay, a patient could receive 7, 8, 9 or 10 separate bills in the case of a particularly difficult confinement. We all know that the medical profession has a habit of billing separately in cases such as confinements and major operations. We all know what the situation is. 
-I think that there will be many costs associated with a confinement both in and certainly out of hospital during the pregnancy confinement, and post-natal periods when the patient will not be fully covered. This is particularly so in the case of patients who are not classified by doctors as disadvantaged people. The Government has left that decision to the doctors. 
I conclude my remarks by drawing the attention of the Committee to the $30 maternity allowance which has been frozen since 1943. This allowance should have been indexed. If it had been indexed it would have been worth much more than $30 at the time it was cut out in the Budget. Instead of doing anything to increase the allowance the Government simply abolished it. Were there not other alternatives? For instance, the Government could have considered increasing the size of the family allowance to a decent amount to aid lower income families during a pregnancy and after the birth. The Government could have placed some means test on the payment of the allowance. At least this would have indicated that the Government had some interest in people on lower incomes. Instead of that the Government simply abolished the allowance for everyone. I think the Minister has something to answer for. 
-We of the Opposition oppose clause 25 because it denies payment of the family allowance in respect of a dependant receiving a benefit under the tertiary education assistance scheme. The Minister has glossed over this aspect by saying that TEAS payments will be increased by $5.25 a week. But there was a case for an increase in TEAS payments anyway because they are not subject to indexation. Now low income families will lose again as TEAS payments are means-tested. I will give a hypothetical situation. A family receiving an income of $8,600 a year- that is the threshold of the means test operative in relation to TEAS payments- and having a dependent child receiving a TEAS payment will lose its family allowance. Yet the dependent children of a family with an income of $40,000 a year will not be eligible to receive TEAS payments but will still be eligible for the family allowance. What a terribly anomalous situation that is. The dependent children of a family receiving an income of $40,000 or more a year will be eligible to receive a family allowance but not eligible for a TEAS allowance. The dependent children of a family on an income of" $8,600 or less a year will be eligible to receive a TEAS allowance but will not be eligible to receive the family allowance. Clearly the children in the lower income family should still be eligible to receive the family allowance. Because that sort of situation will arise, we oppose clause 25. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 26 to 44- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clauses 45 and 46- by leave- taken together. 
-This is a very important matter, although it is obvious that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  and this Government do not think so. In clause 45 the Government really exposes itself. Despite the belated, eleventh-hour recognition of the unemployment problem by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  this Government still persecutes the unemployed. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations admitted a month ago that employment in the private sector was falling rapidly and that he held no hope of creating the 650,000 new jobs in five years which his own Department says are required to reduce unemployment to 4.5 per cent. Despite the 413,000 people who are currently unemployed- and that figure is a seasonally adjusted one- there are still less than 20,000 registered vacancies with the Commonwealth Employment Service. Despite these figures, the young and the single unemployed are still being persecuted by the Government. For what other reason has the unemployment benefit been pegged at $36 a week since 1975 when this Government assumed office? If this benefit had been indexed in line with rises in the consumer price index it would now be over $50. 
I draw the Minister's attention to the remarks of the Liberal Victorian Minister for Social Welfare,  Mr Brian  Dixon, on 30 July last. He said that unemployment could reach 3 1 per cent by 1984. He said that the Liberal Party had greatly underestimated the impact of automation on employment. He went on to say: 
At present there are 5.9 million jobs, and on normal growth figures there would be 6.3 million in 1984. But if technological progress is allowed to run its course with no preparation from the Government, the number of jobs will actually drop to 4.3 million. 
My purpose in quoting a State Liberal Minister in this matter is to ask this question of the Federal Minister: If unemployment reaches the 31 per cent, as predicted by a State Liberal Minister in Victoria, will the Government still take this attitude towards the unemployed? 
At present there are 7 per cent unemployed and it is about time the Government gave the matter some thought because next year that figure will probably be 10 per cent if its policies are continued. At any rate, clause 45 will now freeze the unemployment benefits of persons without dependants. The amount paid will be only $36 for those under 1 8 years of age and $51.45 for those over 18 years of age. As the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  has pointed out, the Government did not freeze benefits for persons in those categories receiving sickness benefits. The Government not only discriminates between the unemployed- those with dependants and those without dependants- but it goes even further: It discriminates between those receiving sickness benefits and those receiving unemployment benefits. Apparently the Government feels that the unemployed are less worthy than those receiving sickness benefits. Does the Government imply that the unemployed need less, that they eat less or that they deserve less? The Government really exposes itself in this regard. The fault syndrome is still with the Government. 
The back bench members of the Government have been saying today that they do not denigrate and have never denigrated receivers of the unemployment benefit. We refute that. I can still see the Prime Minister making his policy speech in 1975, promising jobs for all who wished to work and denouncing those who lived on the Gold Coast while collecting their unemployment benefit. I can still hear the roar of the Liberal crowd- a roar of bloodhounds beying after blood- when the Prime Minister denounced those people. 
-The truth is that the Government still victimises the unemployed. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The Committee will come to order. The Committee will hear the honourable member for Cunningham without interruption. 
Government members do not like the truth,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  The truth is that this Government still victimises the unemployed, because they are the evidence of the absolute failure of the Prime Minister's promises. They are an albatross around his neck. As the Government fumbles with ihe economic policy, willi the automation crisis and with job pressure from imports, it still wants to give the impression that the unemployed are to blame. 
Still this Government goes on and robs pensioners. It pillories the unemployed; it removes the maternity allowance; it freezes veterans' tuberculosis allowances, and it cuts workers' wages. This is the same Government that would freeze the unemployment benefits of people without dependants, regardless of their age. It is the same Government that wants to hand back $340m worth of windfall profits this year to the oil companies. It is the same Government which renounces its ability to impose a resources tax or rent tax on super profits of companies which want to repatriate profits overseas to their parent companies. It is the same Government that refuses to tax adequately those companies which are making hundreds of millions of dollars of profit from our most precious non-renewable energy resources. It is the same Government that refuses to act against the tax dodgers, the people who use trusts and would use their own children to. avoid paying legitimate income tax. How pious the Prime Minister sounds when he pontificates about the need to hold the family farm together. 
We ask the Prime Minister, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the Government to drop clause 45 and give these people their due. Whether they are young or not they deserve to have their unemployment benefits indexed if the Government cannot provide them with a job. While the Government is about it, it is time it indexed that $36 which those under 18 years receive, which has been pegged at that level since 1975 and which the Government proposes to peg further. But I do not think the Government will do that because it is too mean and it is too vicious. But I warn the Government: In 1980 the mean and vicious ghosts of this Budget will return to haunt the Prime Minister, his shabby Cabinet and his shabby Government. 
-We have just listened to a sycophantic diatribe in favour of doctors in a hate session against workers. It sits very ill on the shoulders of a government that since 1975 has broken many promises. I might mention broken promises concerning wage indexation, cuts in personal income tax, the pledge to provide full employment and to maintain the value of pensions. Similarly, the history of Medibank and health insurance since December 1975 has been one of a continuous breach of faith. Remember how in 1975 Labor kept its election pledge to provide a basic, cheap, workable system of universal health insurance? It was to be funded by a 1.35 per cent levy on taxable income, but of course the then Opposition defeated that purpose in the Senate. We then had to fund the original Medibank from general revenue. That is how Labor's first Medibank service was born. In the December 1975 election campaign-after the disgraceful coup, I might add- the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  promised not to interfere with Medibank. Six months later legislation was introduced which broke that promise. We saw then the imposition of a 2.5 per cent levy on taxable income and a subsequent exodus back to the private health funds. Earlier this year the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  released the Sax report and what he euphemistically termed his health costs control program. 
I thought that is what it was labelled- the health costs control program. I remember getting so much documentation on it on my desk that it took me a month to get through it. Then the Government introduced the legislation to reduce further the benefits of Labor's original scheme. We saw the reduction of benefits paid on schedule fees by Medibank and the private health insurance funds from 85 per cent to 75 per cent and the maximum payment on each item was increased from $5 to $ 10. At that time the Minister commenced his hate campaign against Medibank, saying that it was responsible for rising health costs. He said: 
In Australia the great health cost explosion began during the term of the Labor Government. It was a cost expansion directly associated with the transfer of health expenditure from the private to the government sector. 

 Mr Speaker, that is not correct. In the five-year period from 1971-72 to 1976-77 health costs rose from $2,232m to $6,254m. But let us examine the breakdown. Costs rose from $2,232m in 1971-72 to $4,129m in 1974-75, the half-way mark. That is an average increase of 28 per cent a year. But in the two years after the introduction of Medibank, that is 1975-76 and 1976-77, total costs rose from $4, 129m to $6,300m, an average rise of 25.5 per cent a year. So there was a small reduction in the rate of increase after the introduction of Medibank. The Minister was not telling the truth when he spoke to that legislation in May. 
-It is all in the Sax report. The Minister could have worked it out for himself, as I did. In the run-up to this Budget there were numerous leaks- leaks, leaks, leaks, plenty of them- tipping that the Medibank Standard levy and the ceiling would be increased. That did not happen. The Budget contained the greatest surprise and broken promise of all. Medibank Standard was completely abolished and the Government explained that it would pay a 40 per cent subsidy to all, including those who opted out of health insurance altogether and those who remained in Medibank Private or the private health funds. But did this amazing reversal of form originate in a desire to improve health services or in a desire to reduce the consumer price index figures? The Minister has said that the removal of the levy and the payment of the general 40 per cent subsidy will cost the Government $620m in a full year. Is it not amazing that the iniquitous tax surcharge of 1.5c in the dollar- that is, the tax surcharge that wipes out the February tax cuts for those earning up to $240 a week but still leaves $62 a week for those earning $2,000 a week- will raise $5 80m or approximately what will be lost on the other two measures? Of course, that will not show up in the CPI figures. Since we can be sure that the Government's budgetary deficit problems will continue, there is a clear inference that the 40 per cent subsidy will be wound down, perhaps even abolished, or else the temporary tax levy will become a permanent levy. 
-I would not be surprised if that is what the Minister does. The 40 per cent general subsidy is too low. Certainly the Government will tempt many people to gamble on their future good health and many families may live to regret their gamble if they are struck by significant illnesses. The Opposition's foreshadowed amendment, and I ask the Minister to take note of it, calls for the payment of a 75 per cent refund for all medical bills, and I will return to that matter later. Clause 9 of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill allows the private funds to set up socalled optional deductible schemes whereby for a reduction in contributions those insured will be asked to pay up to the first $500 of total annual bills. I think that that is more a concession to the Minister's earlier rhetoric about these optional deductible schemes than a belief that these tables are now necessary. After all, the biggest deductible of all is simply to opt out of the system, to pay out nothing and cop the 40 per cent subsidy. What is the point of the optional deductibles? 
Yes. But in either case the Minister is inciting people to opt out of the system, to gamble on their health. As I will show later, it may be cheaper for the lucky ones to do so, but I do have doubts. Apart from the obvious incentive to those people to avoid seeing doctors, and that could be a blow against the concept of preventive medicine, there is another major argument. The concepts are actuarily unsound. The Minister will create separate pools of people taking health insurance. The young and the healthy will stay out and the families, the middle aged and the sick alone will shoulder the cost burden. That is not sound insurance funding, and the Minister knows it. 
The Health Insurance Commission's functions have also been disrupted and the staff now fear for their future employment. Since the Commission will no longer handle bulk billing but will act as the paying authority for the 40 per cent subsidy only for those who register with Medibank Private, many regional Medibank offices will be taken over by the Department of Health. In New South Wales this will include the offices in Miranda, Liverpool and Orange, which have an actual staff right now of 364 people. The Government also proposes to phase out the Canberra operation. The Federal Department of Health has announced a staff requirement of 207 for Miranda, Liverpool and Orange. That means that in those four offices alone- Miranda, Liverpool, Orange and Canberra- 227 people face dismissal when these regional office activities are assumed by the Department of Health after 1 November or, in the case of Canberra, when they are phased out. I understand that the staff of 1 14 at the large Wollongong regional Medibank office and its branches are also most concerned about their future. It is true that these offices and some others will remain as branches of Medibank Private.  Mr Minister,  they are entitled to ask: For how long? Is it true that they will stand or fall on their ability to register some 65 per cent of people not in private funds for payment of the 40 per cent subsidy? 
-So do I, but is it true that if they do not get 65 per cent they may be phased out? I would like the Minister to answer that question. We are all entitled to ask why Medibank Private was not allowed to process exclusively the 40 per cent Commonwealth benefit and continue to process all bulk billing claims. The Opposition's foreshadowed amendment most definitely demands that the Health Insurance Commission continues to be the paying authority for both those measures. The unions involved, that is, the Australian Public Service Unions, the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association and the Federated Clerks Union, have joined us in that demand. 
Why is there any need to continue with this charade of support for a chronically ill private health insurance system? Why does the Minister wish to prop up this nonsense, this wasteful duplication that is involved in the support of a multiplicity of private health insurance funds all vying for a limited market? He would not tolerate it in the domestic airlines business. He would not tolerate umpteen competitors with Telecom. He would not tolerate it in the postal services. Is it not true that all these funds now exist simply to fill the 35 per cent gap, that is, the gap between the 40 per cent subsidy and the 75 per cent of scheduled fees, or the 60 per cent gap between the 40 per cent subsidy and the 100 per cent of scheduled fees which is offered by the funds? Certainly there is the added incentive of extra hospital insurance involved, but this is only necessary because of the greed of the medical profession in refusing to work on a sessional basis in hospitals. 
Let us face it, people join intermediate and private hospital tables offered by private health funds because they are not confident that their own doctor and specialist will treat them if they are standard public ward patients only. I can advise the House of a personal experience whereby a specialist refused to operate on a sick child because in 1975 I preferred to remain in Medibank Standard which of course offered 85 per cent of medical fees and free treatment in standard hospital wards. I was offered a choice by that specialist of either signing a paper to allow him to charge his full fee for service or of finding another surgeon. The same thing will happen to the people who opt for the 40 per cent of medical fees and the so-called free treatment in standard ward hospitals. What a confusing picture we now see. What a set up! 
Let us look at some samples of tables offered by three organisations. In the last few days three funds have announced a 75 per cent return of scheduled fees and $40 per day for intermediate hospital ward cover. For that table, Manchester Unity proposes a charge of $6.40 a week; the Hospital Benefits Association of Victoria, $5.66 a week; and, it is rumoured, Medibank Private will offer $6.32 a week. People can choose one of these tables or they can opt for another table costing about $7.90 a week which offers 100 per cent return of fees paid. You pay you money and you take your pick. If a person has decided which fund he is going to join, he then decides which table he will join. What a marvellous choice a person now has! He can decide whether he wants to stay out of medical insurance altogether or he can decide whether he wants medical cover only and rely on free hospital treatment and thereby pay about $2.70 or $2.80 a week, or he can opt for hospital only cover and pay $4-odd and rely on the 40 per cent subsidy for medical bills. A person has to decide between this conglomeration of different tables. One has to be a Philadelphia lawyer to work it all out. That is a fact. I do not think that I am confused about the matter At least I think I understand what it is all about. I think the Minister understands and there are probably a few people in this House who do, but believe me, there are not many people in the community that can understand it. 
As I was saying, perhaps a person settles for the 40 per cent general subsidy and the standard ward treatment in hospitals. According to this list put out by Medibank the scheduled fee is $8.90 for a standard general practitioner consultation. The table rate is $3.40 a week which amounts to $177 a year and 35 per cent of $8.90 is $3.1 1; so, on my rough calculations, it looks as though a person might have to make about 25 visits a year to the doctor before it would be cheaper to join a private health fund. Let us look at some of the other changes. A standard GP home visit is $ 13; an initial consultation with a specialist is $26 and a subsequent consultation is $13; an initial consultation with a consultant physician is $45.50; confinement by a specialist is $176. Then there are all these other charges, such as $130 for an appendectomy. If a person is troubled by a significant illness it could be that he has to attend a number of doctors and specialists at the same time and he will have to pay a maximum of $20 a go on the more expensive items. 
Look, enough of this nonsense about choice of tables! Why should we not have just one universal health insurance scheme? We could have one scheme such as Medibank used to be that could pay a basic subsidy and offer standard ward accommodation and perhaps offer extra coverage for medical and hospital treatment. Better still, why not just have one health insurance fund funded by one simple levy, offering medical insurance and offering a full and comprehensive hospital service by doctors in the great public hospitals. 
But I should make this point: We in the Labor Party realise that much more is needed than simply to create just another national health insurance fund such as Medibank used to be. We need to challenge the whole concept of feeforservice charges by the medical profession. I might point out that we are not alone in our feelings. I refer honourable members to the feelings of the Australian Hospitals Association which said this in its bulletin of last April: 
A good deal of diagnostic medicine is provided on a feeforservice basis. If it can be demonstrated that, other things being equal - 
I was saying that the Australian Hospitals Association said: 
If it can be demonstrated that, other things being equal, fee-for-service diagnostic medicine is more expensive than that based on salaried practice, then serious consideration should be given to a complete revision of remuneration methods for diagnostic services. 
That is what should be done. We should resuscitate, not wind down, the concept of preventive community health centres. Why can we not develop a system of medical centres staffed by salaried staff who are working for a just and decent salary? Such a concept has already been put into practice by some unions. A centre was established in Footscray by the Butchers Union in Victoria. As I understand it, it is now a publicly run centre. There is also a centre run by the Australian Workers Union in Sydney. Five different unions are acting together in that area. It offers a medical service which will not charge more than 75 per cent of the schedule fee. We need to offer more than just a health insurance scheme. We need to attack the principle of fee-for-service and we need to quietly go about setting up medical centres, getting the young doctors when they come out of hospitals, paying them a decent salary and letting them work for a salary. 
I wish to speak briefly to the amendment, particularly to paragraph (1), which deals with the provision for bulk billing by doctors prepared to accept 75 per cent of the common fee in full payment. Clause 9 of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill effectively abolishes bulk billing for all but holders of pensioner health cards and those whom doctors agree are disadvantaged persons. Doctors will receive 85 per cent of the schedule fee for pensioners and 75 per cent for those whom they graciously label disadvantaged. I think this is the most scurrilous aspect of the three Bills. The legislation does not offer any basic criteria to doctors, whilst expecting them to act as unpaid agents for the Department of Health. It does not legislate to set guidelines. 
The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  says that the bulk billing arrangements for disadvantaged persons could include persons in such categories as the unemployed, people receiving sickness benefits, migrants, some ethnic groups, perhaps refugees and people suffering from prolonged or severe illness, but there is no compulsion on the doctor or specialist to agree to bulk billing these categories or any other person for that matter. There are some 25,000 doctors and specialists in Australia and we could have 25,000 different sets of criteria. The Minister piously suggests in his second reading speech that the relationship between a patient and his practitioner is unique and implies that to legislate to give basic guidelines to the medical profession could lead to interference with the 'precious patient-practitioner relationship'. I invite the Minister to tell that to the poor, the sick and the needy. 
For a person not covered by private health insurance and who may be in difficult financial circumstances it is made abundantly clear by the Minister that unless the doctor agrees to bulk bill and settle for 75 per cent of the scheduled fee the needy patient will be expected to pay the full amount less the 40 per cent general subsidy. What an impertinence on the part of this Government to expect people in poor circumstances, many of whom had previously been exempt from the levy, to cast themselves abjectly on the mercy and charity of the private medical profession. 
It is interesting to speculate why the Australian Medical Association has strongly opposed bulk billing from the commencement of Medibank. During a recent meeting with the AMA executive it was made abundantly clear to me and to those present that the complete opposition of the AMA to bulk billing for the general community was due wholly to its fear that general bulk billing to a central paying authority such as the Health Insurance Commission would mean general acceptance of 75 per cent or 85 per cent of the standard fee and that this would indirectly impose a de facto control of medical fees. That is the reason the AMA is afraid of bulk billing and that is the reason Government members are afraid of bulk billing for the general public. They want to kowtow to the medical profession, and the medical profession has the Government well and truly bluffed. It is to the discredit of all Government members and the AMA that they take this position and place their interests well ahead of the interests of the majority of Australian people. The Opposition's amendment provides for general bulk billing by doctors who are prepared to accept 75 per cent of the common fee in full payment. It is certain that the Bill will be passed without amendment, but we appeal to the doctors who will make these decisions to show a bit of compassion to the needy people who will be appealing to them. 
Government members should cross the floor and vote for the amendment. I remind the doctors in some of the needy and disadvantaged areas where some of the population do it tough, of the old saying that sometimes a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush and it may be better to accept 75 per cent than to look for 100 per cent by getting 40 per cent from the Government and looking for the rest. 
-This Government and its Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and its Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  do not have a national energy policy. Despite the posturing of the Minister for Trade and Resources, we tolerate a virtually open situation in which mining corporations and overseas customers make basic decisions as to exploration, investment, development, production and export quotas. Australia is one of several nations which are virtually self-sufficient in energy resources, with the possible exception of oil; I will come to that matter later. But, massive as our reserves are, they are not inexhaustible, as the Minister seems to think. We need a national fuel and energy commission to oversee, monitor and participate in exploration, development and export marketing. I am afraid that this Government definitely lacks such a policy. 
In 1974 and 1975 the Labor Minister for Minerals and Energy, the late Rex Connor, prevented the Japanese steel industry from exploiting Australian coal producers. The Nippon steel company then, as it does now, negotiated with all Australian coal and iron ore producers on behalf of all Japanese steel mills. Connor's great victory was that he was able to force the Australian coal producers- those involved with both open cut and underground mining- to act together and not to allow themselves to be played off against each other by a well organised and determined Japanese steel industry. In April 1975 the benefit was apparent. The gap between Utah Queensland open cut coal and New South Wales south coast underground coal was narrowed substantially to $46.50 and $48.80 respectively. Since 1975 the Japanese once again have been reverting to their former practices. Once again the future of less profitable underground mines is threatened. 
In New South Wales Kembla Coal and Coke Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of the Conzinc Riotinto organisation, after having invested $54m in a new underground mine, Westcliff, with a total capacity of 2.2 million tonnes annually, is yet to produce more than one million tonnes from that mine. Total contracts to sell 2.3 million tonnes per year to Japan from two Kembla Coal and Coke mines have never been realised. Prices will be reviewed again in March 1979. Obviously the Japanese will use the same tactics as they recently used against the iron ore producers in Western Australia to reduce the present contract price of $48 a ton. What will the Minister for Trade and Resources do to rationalise pricing for underground and open-cut coal? We are favoured with huge coal resources in the Bowen Basin in Queensland, the Hunter Valley and the South Coast areas of New South Wales. Now a new major discovery has been made in the Gunnedah area of New South Wales. But we cannot allow every company to make its own separate development, export and pricing decisions. Only an appropriate Federal authority can rationalise overall development to allow for exports and the preservation of adequate future resources for our own needs. 

 Mr Deputy Chairman, our oil reserves are dwindling. At the present rate of consumption, in 10 years two-thirds of our oil requirements may be imported at a cost at today's prices of $2.5 billion plus. We are not alone. By the year 2000 the world's oil reserves to annual production ratio will have fallen from 22:1 to 10:1. As the Rockefeller Foundation points out, this will lead to further huge oil price increases, with the strong Western economies, such as the United States of America, West Germany and Japan, buying and consuming the lion's share of what is left of the world's oU resources. That is why we should be husbanding our existing oil and natural gas reserves. It is little profit ibr us to say that we will purchase imported oil with proceeds from natural gas and coal sales if no oil is left in the world for us to buy. 
One must be unhappy with the rate of oil exploration despite the super windfall profits of oil companies resulting from the Government's crude oil pricing policies and the $700m-odd accruing to government this year. Only $450m has been earmarked by 14 companies for oil exploration off the west coast of Australia and $500m by two companies for oil exploration in Bass Strait over the next six years. That is not enough. The $450m to be spent on the Exmouth Plateau represents only 68 per cent of this year's Federal revenue rip-off from the oil industry. So much for the argument that oil companies need super profits to look for more oil. They are just not using those windfall profits to look for more oil. 
-I do not know that; the honourable member who interjected might know. They certainly are not using it all for oil exploration. Let me examine the proposal by the multinational consortium to develop the North West Shelf natural gas reserves on the Rankin Trend. The capital cost is estimated at $3 billion. It is proposed to export 53 per cent of production to Japan and the United States west coast, with the remainder being sold in the Perth and Pilbara regions. Despite allegations that 70 per cent of the development infrastructure might be purchased from overseas, I am not against this development and neither is my party. But we make the clear assertion that the export levels ought to be conditional on adequate future reserves being available for Australian industrial and domestic use. 
In addition there are other possibilities for use in an oil hungry country, such as converting natural gas, which is predominantly methane, to methanol and ultimately to petrol. The New Zealand Government is examining this possibility to reduce its reliance on imported oil. New Zealand has decided to proceed with design work for a $100m methanol plant. We ought to be examining the methanol option. Methanol can be blended with petrol up to 20 per cent without making major changes to a petrol engine. More importantly, Mobil Oil Ltd has developed a process whereby it is hoped that petrol might be produced from methanol quite cheaply, at around 10c a gallon for the conversion. It could be that instead of exporting 53 per cent of North West Shelf gas to Japan we should produce methanol from natural gas and, hopefully, eventually petrol from methanol. I might add that methanol can be produced from coal also, but it is easier and much cheaper to use natural gas. 
It is essential also that we examine our overall gas reserves as they stand now. Reserves now in production total 314,500 million cubic metres and further estimated reserves total 528,000 million cubic metres, including 472,000 million cubic metres on the North West Shelf. Let us look at what we have in the States. Victoria is supplied from reserves in Bass Strait, which total 202,000 million cubic metres. In 1977 Victoria used 3,256 million cubic metres. Even at that present rate the known Bass Strait reserves will be exhausted in 60-odd years. Similarly, in South Australia the Cooper Basin reserves supply South Australia and New South Wales. Those reserves total 91,000 million cubic metres and current usage is 2,405 million cubic metres a year. They will be exhausted in 38 years. The North West Shelf reserves total 472,000 million cubic metres. It is proposed to export 53 per cent of those reserves; that is, 6.5 million tons of liquefied natural gas a year, or 250,000 million cubic metres. These exports along with Western Australian domestic usage mean that the North West Shelf reserves could vanish in 20 or 30 years. 
Large as our reserves are, they are very small compared with the reserves of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I mention for the purpose of comparison that the Soviet Union's reserves total 18 trillion, or 18 million million, cubic metres. Yet the Soviet Union is exporting only 8 per cent of its annual yield of 0.345 trillion cubic metres. The unmistakable conclusion is that despite claims that the export income at this level is required to generate early cash flow and to provide oil and gas exploration funds, if little more oil is to be found within Australia it may be that we are being foolish in exporting such a very large percentage of such a precious and viable alternative to petroleum. It may be also that the North West Shelf fields should become the future major reservoir for industrial and domestic gas consumption within Australia. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Every time there is a significant industrial dispute in this nation either a Minister or a would-be Minister from the back benches attempts to make political capital out of it in the Federal Parliament. In the last year we have seen them do it with disputes about the export of live sheep as some workers in the meat industry battled to save their jobs. We have seen them do it in the recent Telecom disputes and in the coal industry with regard to Utah when workers sought a share of the $ 160m profit that Utah made in 1977 and the $138m that Utah sent abroad in that year. We have seen them do it during the recent waterfront dispute when the Government and employers performed the unique and exceptional task of turning a minor dispute in a Melbourne container terminal into a national waterfront stoppage. 
This Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Government destroy everything they touchthe economy and employment. Government members say that this dispute is hindering economic recovery. What economic recovery? Unemployment has increased from 350,000 to 416,000, on seasonally adjusted terms, in the last year- and government members talk about interference with economic recovery! They must be crazy. As a result of a draconian and pitiless Budget designed to increase unemployment, this Government has destroyed the New South Wales branch of its own party and destroyed its own New South Wales leader. On the very day that the Government's defeated comrades in the New South Wales branch of the Liberal Party are trying to resolve their own internal bickering and leadership problems, the Federal Government pulls the same old divisive tactics as before- it pours oil on industrial fires. That will not work any more. It will not work any more than their federal industrial policies have worked in the past. 
This Government should look at its own disruptive record. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  sits in the chamber and does not take any part in the debate because he has not got a feather with which to fly. He knows that his Government does not have a wages or industrial policy, as I shall show in a minute. I say to the Minister: 'Just look at your disastrous record. Just look at the amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act that you steered through the House last year. What good did it do? What dispute have you solved with it?' 
-Not one. That legislation provided for the deregistration of unions. It also set up a useless bureaucratic structure called an Industrial Relations Bureau. It provided for the fining and gaoling of unionists and union leaders. It provided for the freezing of union funds and so on. Just what has it achieved? It has achieved precisely nothing. All the Government can contribute towards a wage and an industrial policy is the putting up of two innocuous and inconsequential back benchers to do the dirty work fork. 
When will this Government understand that these measures never work; that industrial disputes are solved in the industrial arena, at the conference table or sometimes in the industrial courts? They are never solved in the Federal or the State parliaments. The Government has tried to use a dispute at the oil refineries in New South Wales involving workers in the Transport Workers Union, the Storemen and Packers Union, the Federated Clerks Union and the Amalgamated Metal workers and Shipwrights Union regarding a $10 claim for alleged sand damage to cars, to inflame passions in New South Wales, not because of its alleged concern for the economy, but because it wishes to use the dispute in a vain attempt to restore coalition fortunes, which are irretrievable anyway. 
Let me look quickly at the dispute itself. I took the trouble to speak to some people in the Transport Workers Union today and I understand that despite company promises, as ruled by Justice Ludeke, that the senior officials would negotiate with the unions this week, such negotiations did not in fact occur and that actually the company reneged on that arrangement. It sent in junior industrial officers and then told the men concerned that it would refer the dispute to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission anyway and that it ought to be dealt with as part of the oil industry work value case. Despite the posturing of Government members in this place, we now see that negotiations today have perhaps provided the framework of a settlement and that further discussions will take place in the morning that will hopefully end the dispute to the satisfaction of most of the people concerned. 
-That is right; they will be disappointed that they have not got a dispute on which to stir, to make trouble with, to divert the attention of the electorate away from their Budget attacks and so on. 
The point that was made by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  about excessive wages in the oil industry does not stand up to examination. The workers in the Transport Workers Union are not getting overtime at the moment. I understand that $180 a week is their all-up gross wage. 
-The honourable member for Bradfield, as an inconsequential back bencher, gets a little less than $25,000 a year plus a $9,000 a year tax-free electorate allowance. 
Government members- The same as you get. 
-The difference between Government members and me is that I do not roast workers' wage increases and they do. I think the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  gets between $70,000 and $80,000 a year and no doubt will keep the $60 a week that is left from the February tax cuts after the 1.5c in the dollar tax surcharge is imposed. However the workers in the oil industry in Sydney will not get to keep any of their February tax cuts. Let us look at what might happen to that $ 1 80 a week after the tax surcharge comes into operation as from next month. A married man receiving $152 a week after tax may pay about $7.70 for the much vaunted health insurance changes, leaving him about $144 a week. These are the people whose wage increases Government supporters say are causing unemployment. I am staggered. 
The Government blames a so-called wages overhang for unemployment but there is no real evidence to show that there is any wages overhang. The Government cannot offer any justification for this argument. The size of the socalled wages overhang depends on the base time, the criteria used and the starting time for the exercise. At any rate, after we study these aspects of that argument, we still find that it has no validity. As an example I refer to two European countries. First, I mention Sweden, a country with an alleged wages overhang up to 1976 of 12 per cent. Unemployment in that country has been reduced by 36 per cent. My second example is West Germany which, with a small wages overhang of 1.9 per cent had a 365 per cent increase in unemployment. 
The Government has become very repetitive in its economic speeches. Each speech ends with a rousing call for wage cuts. It reminds me of the old Roman republican senator who always finished every speech in the Senate of ancient Rome with a rousing call for the destruction of Carthage. No wonder the workers in the oil industry and any other industry are dissatisfied. Look what the Government did to pensioners by introducing yearly instead of half yearly adjustments. Wage indexation hearings are now to be held half yearly. But the Government has not approached the wage indexation flow-on for the June and September quarters in an honest way. It is opposing that flow-on. Talk about incitement. I refer to the front page of the  Australian  of 20 October and the headline: 
Government to Oppose 4pc Wage Rise. 
The Government will oppose that increase to the meagre wages that these workers are getting. The Government will oppose passing on even that cost of living increase although it was successful in its argument to drop quarterly wage reviews and to substitute six-monthly adjustment hearings. Prices will be permitted to increase as a result of its action to emasculate the Prices Justification Tribunal. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
-This Government is now well and truly locked into its own specious arguments that real wage levels are the major cause of unemployment. The economic strategy which it has been pursuing for several years of expecting cuts in federal expenditure and in real wages to reduce the rate of inflation and then to attract investment and thus restore employment is now dead. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  buried that policy last August. They admitted, despite all their wage reductions and their cutback mentality, that there would be no improvement in the labour market in the near future, that there was no hope of producing the 650,000 new jobs in five years which the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations stated were necessary to reduce unemployment to 4.5 per cent in five years' time. They admitted that more than 500,000 people in Australia would be unemployed by next February. After having admitted all that, they still maintained that they were on the right track economically; that their policies were correct. They still wanted to blame workers' wage levels for the downturn in the economy. 
Only two of the last 10 wage judgments awarded full indexation. Although the national average wage rose from $175.70 in December 1975 to $215.50 in June 1978, the cumulative effect of full indexation would have produced a national average wage of $236.70 by the end of June 1978. So already partial wage indexation has reduced the average wage by at least $2 1 .20 a week since December 1975. Let us go out into the real world away from this place and see what average workers in industry are earning. I will cite two examples. I cite a middle income iron worker employed at Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd at Port Kembla as a crane driver who is currently earning $181 gross per week for 40 hours work. A similar situation applies to the municipal council workers in the provincial city of Wollongong, where plant operators earn $194 a week and labourers earn $173.85 a week. That is a gross wage from which taxation must be deducted. Despite these wage cuts and despite low wages which have prevailed over the last three years, the seasonally adjusted figure for unemployment has risen in the last year by 55,000 to 413,000. How far must wages fall before the Government's policies start to work and unemployment levels fall? The Minister and the Government refuse to answer because they are lost. 
The Government is taking a long time about it. This Government has already forced the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to implement half-yearly hearings for the national wage case, which, will reduce total wages by $500m this year. That is, employers will save one per cent of the $50,000m total annual wage bill. This saving is compatible with the Budget tax decisions, which rob workers of at least $12 per week but leave $60 per week of the amount gained from the February tax cuts for a person earning $2,000 per week. The Government still opposes just compensation to workers for the four per cent consumer price index rises in the June and September quarters. After having got its way with the Commission it still wants to oppose the four per cent flow on into wages. That is the sheer immorality of what it is doing. We require a wage fixing system based on automatic quarterly adjustments on a full percentage basis at least up to national average wage levels. Instead, the Government schemes and dreams of freezing wage levels. It just will not freeze prices. 
I refer to the recent statement by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  regarding the changes that will be effected to the Prices Justification Tribunal. Some of the changes announced by the Minister were that no company, whatever its size, has automatically to notify price increases in the future and that 'The Minister's approval will be required before the tribunal can hold a public inquiry'. In those two major points lies the emasculation of the Tribunal. Let every wage and salary earner note that this Government is prepared to peg wage levels but is not prepared to peg prices. 
Let us look at the Government's policy with regard to investment allowances and payroll taxes. The Government blames unemployment upon wage levels but ignores the effect of its own investment allowance and State payroll taxes on the cost of labour relative to capital. Capital equipment ordered before 30 June 1978 and installed before June 1979 attracts a tax deduction of 40 per cent of the cost of the equipment. That is an effective discount of 18.4 per cent. Equipment ordered after 30 June 1978 attracts a deduction of 20 per cent. That is an effective discount of 9.2 per cent. As this benefit accrues soon after the equipment is paid for, the effect of wage levels on investment decisions depends upon expected wage levels throughout the life of the investment, not just those prevailing at the time of investment. So we see that the investment allowance contributed more to machines replacing workers than high wages ever did. 
I refer now to the Government's preoccupation with an alleged real wage overhang. The Treasury and the Government say that there is an overhang of at least seven per cent. If the overhang represents the percentage by which real labour costs have exceeded productivity growth, clearly the method of assessing labour costs and productivity and the starting point of calculations are crucial to the exercise. What components should comprise productivity growth? Do we mean the whole economy, the market sector, or just the non-farm market sector? Should we include payroll tax and all supplementary costs when calculating labour costs? By varying these criteria- this is the important point- one can arrive at the desired conclusion. The Treasury, using the non-farm market sector and all real labour costs and using 1966-67 as a base point, calculated a wage overhang of 1 1 per cent in 1974-75, falling back to seven per cent in 1977. However, using a base point of late 1973 before the so-called wages explosion of 1974 and excluding payroll tax, there is only a 1.8 per cent real wage overhang in 1977 and if the figures are up-dated to the present, this overhang disappears entirely. 
If increases in female wage rates are excluded on the assumption that the principle of equal pay for equal work is a social rather than an economic matter, and using a productivity criteria of long-term trend growth in the market sector of the economy with a starting point of 1973, it is even possible to show a 5 per cent wage underhang 
In calculating so-called wage overhangs or underhangs the results may be tailored to order. The very concept of comparing labour costs and productivity increase to illustrate a wage overhang or underhang is so imprecise as to be useless in reaching hard economic conclusions. Even if there were a wage overhang it would not necessarily create unemployment. Overseas comparisons are so erratic that they disprove the theory completely. For instance, between 1972 and 1976, as the shadow Minister pointed out in the figures he tabled, in Sweden the wage overhang of 12.6 per cent was accompanied by a reduction in unemployment of 36 per cent. In the same period, West Germany experienced a small 1.9 per cent overhang but unemployment rose by 375 per cent. When viewed in total, these OECD figures entirely disprove the Government's theory that wage overhang causes unemployment. Instead of blaming the workers for unemployment it is time that a Labor Government was allowed to stimulate the economy. Let us stimulate the economy with selective expenditure and commence the industrial and manpower planning policies required to offer the young unemployed some hope for the future. The Coalition Cabinet is running around in circles, mindlessly cackling its economic slogans, while this nation rushes headlong to disaster. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The measures in the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Amendment Bill once again reflect the 'cut-back, slash government expenditure, make the workers pay for the recession' attitude of the Federal Government. The budgetary cuts to pensions and the unemployment benefit reflected this attitude in social welfare. The cuts in housing expenditure and capital grants to the States reflected this attitude in Commonwealth-State relations. This Bill, which proposes to reduce maternity benefits to female public servants and to wipe out paternity benefits to male public servants reflects the same sort of cutback policy in labour relations within the Commonwealth Public Service. 
Since the Second World War all over the world and in Australia, industry and commerce has relied on an increasing rate of participation by women in the work force. Now approximately 2.2 million women are in the Australian work force. The participation rate by women has risen from 29 per cent in 1960 to 44 per cent in 1978. During this period women have been confronted with a deeply ingrained bias against their being allowed to compete on equal terms in the labour market. How often have members of this House heard the arguments in their own electorates that the current atrocious rates of unemployment are caused by married women occupying jobs that rightfully belong to young people, especially single females. This concept seems to have been deeply instilled even in the working women themselves, that is, that they are somehow extremely lucky to be working and that they should be grateful to society for allowing them to work. The result has been to make Australia's working women rather fearful of pushing for their legitimate rights as working contributors to our society. 
In a sense our working women remain second class workers. They are intimidated by the mores of the establishment and sometimes, to my own great personal regret, by working class males. We need to accept that many married women work because their husband's wages are too low to support their family. As I informed this House in the debate on a matter of public importance last Tuesday, a steelworker in Port Kembla can earn as little as $ 1 80 gross per week. This is by no means the lowest wage in the steel industry. Perhaps there is something to the argument of" those who say that we should pay such women to stay at home by increasing tax concessions for the dependent spouse of a working male. But even this argument ignores the genuine and pressing desire of modern women who find self-fulfilment in active careers outside the family unit. These people should not be suppressed, they should be encouraged. 
There can be natural reluctance on the part of women to insist upon the application of equal pay for equal work. There is a tendency for factory workers, especially migrant women, to accept without protest the extremely low wages they receive. Similarly, in the private sector working women have avoided seeking better conditions in the general labour market such as the extension of maternity leave benefits which have applied up to now in the Public Service. They have avoided seeking the establishment of facilities such as creches in factories and major offices. This Government seems to believe that it can best meet the problems encountered by working families by reducing maternity leave provisions in the Public Service and by retarding the movement to equal wages for equal work and equal opportunity in the work place. They would warn women that they must not be too demanding lest they price themselves out of the labour market. These exhortations are similar to the rhetoric put forward by Government members in this place in favour of lower penalty rates for night and weekend workers, especially in the tourist industry. They are similar to Government demands that workers must accept lower real wages or be replaced by capital, technology or machines. 
In his second reading speech the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister  (Mr Viner)  stated that the provisions of Labour's original Bill which became the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act was still ahead of community standards. If that is so, it is a shocking indictment of Australia's attitude towards women. Let us compare the attitude of the Australian Government with overseas viewpoints. I refer to a document providing the rationale for . maternity and paternity leave through parental insurance in Sweden. It states: 
The situation of young families has changed considerably since the mid-1960s, above all due to a steady rise in the numbers of gainfully employed women. The greatest relative increase in this respect has occurred among women with children of pre-school age. 
A great deal of the changes occurring in Swedish family policy have been prompted by this trend. It has been commonly agreed that no financial support for families can match the earnings of a family where both parents are able to go out to work. The best economic support for families is to enable those parents wishing to do so to obtain gainful employment. Quite clearly, too, the prevailing opinion among young families themselves is that both parents must be able to combine gainful employment with the care of their children. 
To make this possible, social amenities are needed, above all in the form of child care. Great efforts have been made and are still being made to this end. 
That is the type of rationale that is motivating enlightened governments overseas. As I said, this might apply overseas but it does not apply in Australia. In many Western European countries paternity and maternity leave can be shared by both males and females during the post-natal period. Why is the Government wiping out paternity leave? Is it because paternity leave in the Public Service becomes too costly? In 1977 this provision cost less than Sim. As the Australian Council of Trade Unions has pointed out. the important point is that the issue of joint family responsibility in raising children should be encouraged. The abolition of paternity leave in the Public Service is a blow to a commendable reform instituted by the Labor Government. Paternity leave is already well entrenched in overseas Western democracies. 
The Bill seeks to introduce also a 12 months qualifying period before maternity leave can be taken. Apparently, this is based on the typically chauvinistic behaviour that we have come to expect from the bureaucratic males in the top echelons of our Public Service and, I might add, in this Government. This seems to imply that pregnant women might deliberately seek to join the Public Service to enjoy 12 weeks maternity leave. What a poor opinion this Government has of Australia's women, particularly those women who seek to serve in Commonwealth employment. Perhaps these senior public servants think that women might seek jobs with them simply so that they can have a child on paid time at public expense. Do these people really believe that any sane woman would behave in such a way? 
Since the original legislation was implemented only 2.7 per cent of women commencing maternity leave had less than one year's service with the Public Service; 88.8 per cent had between two and 10 years' service; and 8.3 per cent had 10 or more years' service. I am indebted to the Australian Clerical Officers Association for supplying these figures. Surely this Government had access to them also. If it did, why does it seek to mislead us by claiming that abuse of this provision exists? Government speakers have cited several examples of alleged abuse. They have cited the alleged case of a woman who used the full provisions for benefit, resigned and then picked up her leave entitlements. Is it the intention of the Government to blackguard every young woman in the Public Service because of the actions of several people who have abused the system? 
In this legislation the Government also seeks to remove automatic access to sick leave during the pre-natal period and during unpaid maternity leave. The Bill provides that access to sick leave will depend upon a medical certificate being obtained in the normal way. One does not envisage this constituting a major change. I believe that even the Australian medical profession under the circumstances would not deny those women their sick leave certificates which would enable them to obtain their rightful entitlement to leave. But is this not a petty thing to do? The 
Government really is just harassing its own employees. Why does it not leave them alone? They are entitled to their sick pay. Who is more entitled to sick pay than the mother of a future Australian? The provision is in tune with the more miserable of the Budget changes, such as the abortive attempt to impose a tax on paperboys through penalising their mothers and removing their family allowance. 
The last major change in the Bill is to limit paid maternity leave to a maximum of 12 weeks. The Minister said that this will remove any possibility of staff members notifying an early expected date of confinement to maximise their entitlement to paid leave. In other words, the Government believes that its employees are cheats. I ask every female working member of the Commonwealth Public Service to take note of that fact. The Government is changing the legislation because it believes that they wish to cheat the Federal Government. If the Minister looked at the statistics instead of casting aspersions on the Public Service he would see that 70 per cent of the women who have taken maternity leave took exactly 12 weeks paid leave. The changes in this Bill are petty. They should have been avoided. They are anti-female and they are in the same vein as the much vaunted Lusher motion on abortion that would use a Federal health law to deny medical benefits to women who have operations which are legal under the law of the State in which they live. 
Let me prove even further my case that the existing provisions applying maternity and paternity leave entitlements in the Public Service are certainly a lot less than what applies overseas. Let us consider the situation in the country of Norway. The rationale for its policy is to encourage persons with family responsibilities to work outside the home. It aims at women as well as men because both women and men should have equal responsibility towards their children. Accordingly, the Storting has adopted legal provisions on entitlement to full pay during absence in the case of a child's illness for all employees caring for children under 10 years of age. Some government institutions will experiment with a six-hour working day for parents with children under three years of age. With regard to the maj ternity leave provisions in Norway, since July 1977 the entitlement to maternity leave has been extended on the basis of parental leave. Parents will now be entitled to parental leave of up to one year, of which six weeks is definitely reserved for the mother. 
In Sweden, parents have been entitled to a total of seven months absence from work in connection with childbirth provided they have been employed by their present employer for at least one year. At the commencement of leave an employee must have been employed for the past six months or for a total of at least 12 months during the past two years. The seven months ' leave may be divided between the mother and the father. Periods for which mothers and fathers are eligible are not equal. A mother is entitled to 60 days prenatal parental leave from the sixtieth day before the anticipated date of confinement. Moreover, the mother is always entitled to parental benefit for 29 days after her confinement, even if she does not have custody of the child. Otherwise, the main rule is that parental benefit goes to the parent mainly responsible for the care of the child after its birth. Parental benefit is payable to the parents for a total of up to 2 10 days, but on no account after the child is 270 days old. That is the situation that exists in many enlightened countries overseas, such as Sweden and Norway. 
Is it not amazing how the Government changes its tune, breaks its promises and switches its policies? The original legislation was introduced on 29 May 1973 by the then Labor Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  The shadow Minister of the then Opposition, the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  had the hide to criticise the legislation as 'a totally inadequate and isolated response to these needs which must be examined by the Government'. He said on 29 May 1973: 
This Parliament itself provides a salient example of a major structure of society in which women have had a minimal involvement and therefore is seen by many women to represent a narrow and unsympathetic legislative authority. In the terms of the Government's social services program, the needs of the pregnant regrettably are going very much by default. 
He stated further: 
The needs of women in the Australian community are too important to be treated in isolation. 
They must be subject to a concerted program by the Government and which will place the needs of pregnant women in what must be the Government's response to the total needs of women everywhere in Australian society. 
What marvellous rhetoric. Now when the Government has a chance to do something, what does it do? We see it instead exposed for all its mealy-mouthed hypocrisy. Where are its attempts to implement this concerted program which will provide policies to meet the needs of pregnant women everywhere in Australian society? This Bill will be rated by the men and women in the Public Service as another of the 
Government's broken promises. They will regard it in the same category as the broken promises on pensions, Medibank, taxation and unemployment. There is no doubt that, in the spring of 1980, these men and women in the Australian Public Service will remember these attacks on their working conditions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-This package of bills implements a variety of taxation measures which include several attempts to close tax avoidance, such as action against shady companies which use the dividend stripping procedure to achieve double taxation benefits. The legislation also imposes a branch profits tax on branches of an overseas company resident in Australia. Apparently at present it is not legally possible to impose a dividend withholding tax on profits remitted overseas by such branches. 
 The Bills also include measures to make capital investment in the Australian film industry more attractive to investors. The Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 3) closes off the anomaly regarding taxation deductions for the cost to employers of their employees' long service leave and annual leave arising from the recent decision in the Supreme Court in Victoria concerning the Nilsen Development Laboratories Pty Ltd case. The Bill provides that employers will be entitled only to deductions for this purpose for leave payments in the year in which the actual payment is made to the employees. The Opposition is of the opinion that the branch profits tax ought to be not less than 8 per cent of the taxable income of companies. I will return to this issue later. 
In the main we support the legislation to counter the Nilsen case decision if for no other reason than that the $600m which the Treasurer says is involved in this matter could be far better used to stimulate capital expenditure rather than left with those employers who can fiddle this particular tax lurk. Before criticising the details of these most complicated Bills I refer to one very important matter that the Treasurer promised in his second reading speech of 8 June of this year to rectify. I refer to his promise adequately to tax Australian individuals and companies on earnings and dividends accruing from overseas. In his second reading speech the Treasurer quite lucidly explained why this was necessary. He said: 
The position is hotchpotch . . . because the rebate on inter-corporate dividends applies to dividends from overseas as well as to dividends from within Australia, foreign dividends received by Australian companies are tax-free in Australia, and this is so even if the dividends and the profits out of which they are paid are not taxed in the overseas country of source. 
He went on to say: 
The credit system of relief applies also to income, other than salaries and wages, from Papua-New Guinea. All other foreign source income of Australian residents is exempt from Australian tax if it is subject to tax, no matter how negligible, in the country from which it is derived. 
I remind the Treasurer that he concluded by saying: 
The Government considers that such outdated and inconsistent rules cannot be retained. 
But events moved very quickly. The Treasurer immediately drew the crows from the large companies resident in Australia which have overseas operations. Firstly, there were leaks in the  Australian Financial Review  that the Treasurer was in trouble on the issue. The Government back benchers then began to get restive. Of course, the companies involved were ropable. Their precious overseas tax havens, aided and nurtured by members of the Association of South East Asian Nations, were under challenge, and from a Liberal Treasurer, too. 
So, shamefully, on 25 October the Treasurer informed the House that the leaks were once again right on Une. He dropped his daring proposal. What is more, he gave no satisfactory explanation. He covered his retreat with the absurdly obvious statement that many Australian companies see, as a direct consequence of a foreign tax system, an erosion of the competitive position of Australian companies overseas. He said that he was worried and concerned that such taxes might have an adverse effect on the level of Austraiian involvement in countries in the ASEAN region. He was worried about investment in the ASEAN region. What about investment in Australia? What about the investment by Australian companies being retained in Australia to create the jobs that are needed for the army of unemployed created by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)? 
It is certain that unemployment in Australia will be officially over 500,000 early next year. As the shadow Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations pointed out yesterday this does not take into account the 305,000 people who have dropped out of the official labour force of civilian employees. Already in the manufacturing industry 67,000 jobs have been lost in the last two years. Employment in the clothing and footwear industries is down by 13,000 in the last year. In the timber processing industry it is down by 7,000. Some 13,000 jobs have been lost in the electrical appliances industry. Even 2,500 fewer people are engaged in mining. From where will the jobs come to provide employment for the 230,000 school leavers who will annually join the labour market in the foreseeable future? Will they come from the rural sector? Hardly. Will they come from the rnining sector? No, not on your life. That industry is the most capital intensive of all. Will the jobs be provided in the services sector? 
It seems that computers and word-processing machines will hit the tertiary sector very hard. No wonder bank employees are worried. It is said that technological change will revolutionise banking and finance and result in a reduction of staff numbers by at least one third of those now currently employed. So it is of little use for the Prime Minister and the Treasurer glibly to argue that, as automation increases, living standards will rise and thus produce more growth and extra jobs in the tertiary sector. The plain fact is that we have relied increasingly on this sector to take up the slack in employment since the Second World War. The tertiary sector will no longer take up that slack. So we must go back to the manufacturing base. It is of vital importance to ensure that jobs remain in manufacturing and that the Federal Government is intimately involved in assessing just where the potential for future growth in manufacturing lies. I will not argue that we should simply rely on the buttons and levers approach, that is, by adjusting tariffs, offering extra incentives, domestic subsidies, implementing investment allowances and so on. Any or all of these things may be important in the future but they will not be any substitute for planned industry and manpower policies. So, given all these facts, how can this Government drop its proposals to tax the earnings of Australian companies which have transferred operations to South East Asia? 
The Government ought to be fighting to retain jobs and not cravenly backing off from the struggle with those companies which really, in a national sense, disloyally wish to move overseas to take advantage of cheap labour conditions and benign tax consideration. Recently I was requested to make approaches to the Minister for Trade and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  on behalf of a company which imported from Malaysia some 40 per cent of its total Australian sales of children's apparel. The company argued that unless it could continue to do so the jobs of those who manufactured the 60 per cent Australian component would be at risk. I asked the company manager what he would do if he were able to make a choice in the event of a heavy reduction in tariffs. He said that in those circumstances his company would transfer all its operations to Malaysia. The Minister must rethink his position on this matter. We should not be encouraging Australian companies to relocate overseas. 
Let me examine the proposals to implement a branch profits tax. The Government says that this is necessary because branches of overseas companies resident in Australia, whilst being liable for the 46 per cent Austraiian company tax paid on taxable income, are not liable to be taxed, as are subsidiaries from overseas companies which remit dividends overseas. Obviously we support the branch profits tax, but why is it set at only 5 per cent? Apparently the Government has assessed that 5 per cent will cover the amount that would have been raised by a dividend withholding tax at the current rate of 1 5 per cent that was imposed on an average of 60 per cent of after tax distributable income remitted abroad. A branch profits tax of 8 or 10 per cent not only would raise more revenue but also would certainly encourage companies to establish Australian subsidiaries rather than a branch operation which is far less subject to Australian governmental control. At any rate, a branch profits tax is a totally inefficient and ineffective method of raising revenue from the gross profits of companies such as ESSO-BHP in oil and Utah Development Company in coal. This Government will give to ESSO-BHP by 1980 a $700m handout from its new oil policies. Of course as everyone knows, when the 1977 import parity policy is phased in, government revenue from the oil industry will rapidly decline. Similarly, in coal the Government is phasing out the coal export levy and refusing to replace it with a resources tax. A branch profits tax on Utah at the proposed rate would probably raise only $8m or $9m but a resources rent tax at a proposed threshold rate of, say, 15 per cent on invested capital and imposed at a rate of 70 per cent thereafter would have produced $95m last year in federal revenue. I believe that there also ought to be a resources tax implemented on the profits made from the extraction of our nonrenewable energy resources, particularly on overseas exports and I of course include coal and natural gas as logical areas for a Labor Government's resources rent tax. Yesterday in answer to a question on income tax avoidance the Treasurer said:   if one is to keep to a tolerable rninimum the level of discretions which are available to the Commissioner of Taxation under the legislation it is very difficult to restrain the size or the rate of growth ... of the Act when . . . legislating against individual practices . . . Quite clearly we do have a complicated taxation Act in this country. 
The Treasurer went on to say that it was necessary to reconsider the Federal taxation options open to the Government before attempting to simplify the whole of the taxation system. He then spoke of the much publicised inquiry into a retail turnover tax or a value added tax. Most overseas countries which have imposed the broadly based consumer taxes have opted for the VAT rather than the retail turnover tax. I believe that both these taxes are undesirable in Australia. The value added tax is, of course, really a tax on final consumption of goods and services. It is strongly argued that it should be neutral which is really a euphemism for making it as broad as possible. 
I am opposed to the expansion of indirect taxation for a variety of reasons. Firstly, it should be the last thing to be implemented in a country which is in the depths of a recession because it is really a tax on spending and it must be inflationary. It would probably induce people to increase their savings, which are already at an historically high level, rather than to spend. It is cumulative, and applies at all stages of production. All suppliers and producers pay the tax in the production process but each recoups the outlay. The final total value added tax, which in the end amounts to fixed percentage of the final cost, is of course paid for by the poor old consumer. He cannot pass it on; nor does he receive any tax credits. 
Furthermore, I think we ought to reject the arguments of the Prime Minister that a value added tax leaves a choice to the consumer of whether or not to purchase- but no one, he says, can escape an income tax. What nonsense. How illogical. He is really inciting people not to purchase, which of course is impracticable. Obviously, broadly based consumer taxes would include taxes on food and clothing, housing, rent, perhaps even second hand goods; public transport and even services such as the tourist and entertainment industry would not escape. Many of the Government back benchers say they are most concerned about those industries. How can they support extra taxes on them! 
The argument that we should tax by means of value added taxes the wealthy people who consume more reverses itself when one considers that the low income earners, the fixed income earners such as pensioners, will not escape the tax and would pay the same for a loaf of bread as would the Treasurer. One acknowledges that many exponents of these taxes advocate them as part of an overall tax restructure. For instance, it should be possible to give special compensation to all pensioners by raising pensions. This could be paid for from the revenue collected by the tax. It should be possible to give special compensation to taxpayers by raising the threshold at which they are required to pay income tax. Perhaps we could exclude from income tax those people who earn less than, say, $8,000 a year, but we could not trust this Government to do these things; that is the point. All of its taxation performances have resulted in effecting more regressive tax changes such as the so-called cuts of last February which gave the Prime Minister $60 a week and the average earner $3.50 a week which of course has now been removed totally by the 1 .5c in the dollar surcharge. 
As the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  pointed out, the Government will not ban the use of family trusts to avoid income tax because many of the honourable members who sit opposite have trusts themselves. However, the Government has found no difficulty in fully taxing workers on lump sum payments for accrued leave. We could not trust this Government to introduce any ameliatory measures to offset the regressive effects of value added taxes. Anyway, if such measures were introduced what guarantees would there ever be that they would not be removed or that they would be maintained at their initial real level? It would be possible for a value added tax to be introduced as part of an overall tax restructure only to see pension increases dissolved in the wake of inflation, and the value added tax would be eternal. 
We admit that there is a need for and we would embrace taxation reform. The Treasurer is right when he says that section 260 of the Act needs to be rewritten to make it simpler to nail the tax bludgers. Earlier this year the Opposition moved to the Treasurer's earlier tax avoidance Bills an amendment suggesting that Bills to outlaw tax avoidance schemes as they are identified should be retrospective to the beginning of that current financial year. Section 260 should be rewritten to embrace this concept. I believe that any restructuring of taxation should start by an examination of the levels of company taxation, the possibility of introducing a capital gains tax and other taxes on accumulated capital and also the resources rent tax that I mentioned earlier. Income tax structures also need drastic revision. 
I think the scales on which income tax is paid are really too wide. For instance, let us examine the effect of the present marginal rate of 33.5c in the dollar. A person pay $335 for each $1,000 in excess of $9,000, but a person who earns $ 15,000 will pay tax at exactly the same rate on an extra $1,000 income over $15,000. That is inequitable. I am referring to marginal taxation. I am well aware of the effect of the threshold that has been imposed. Nevertheless, the same rate is applied to marginal tax. I am not suggesting that the 
Government should increase the rate on incomes in the higher range. I am suggesting that some thought should be given to a marginal tax rate to be applied to workers receiving lower incomes. My time in this debate has almost expired. I suggest that the Treasurer should redraft the Bills and in doing so he should provide for an increase in the proposed branch profits tax rate, the resources rent tax on - 
-Once again we see this anti-Australian Government seeking to attack the trade unions. The latest attack, the Trade Practices Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 is the same sort of anti-union legislation as the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill of last year which set up the useless and inflammatory Industrial Relations Bureau and which also provided for the deregistration of trade unions, the fining of trade unionists and the freezing of their lawful funds and property. It is also similar to the anti-Public Service legislation of August 1977 which legalised the standing down and sacking of public servants. It was this legislation which, as the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  said only today, led the International Labour Organisation in Geneva just one week ago soundly to condemn this Government and this Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as being authoritarian and prone to using the same repressive tactics against the legitimate labour movement as the Pinochet movement in Chile. The freedom of association section of the ILO went on, I understand, to express the earnest hope that this sort of legislation would never be proclaimed or used in Australia. No doubt the ILO would issue the same condemnation of this Bill, the Trade Practices Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978, if it was aware of its similar anti-labour movement ramifications. 
Let me briefly examine the Government's sorry history in this matter. In December 1976 the present Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  attempted to introduce legislation that would have fined trade unions $250,000 for hindering or preventing the supply of goods or services by the employer to a corporation if the hindering or preventing of supply would have a substantially adverse effect on the business of the corporation. However, this original legislation lapsed when that Parliament was prorogued. In May 1977, after a great deal of industrial confrontation that was caused by this Government, that same man watered down some of his vicious original proposals but nevertheless retained the substance of the BUI. At that time the Government dropped its proposal to fine individual trade unionists up to $50,000 but it pressed ahead with proposed fines of up to $250,000 for unions which took uncompetitive action against business and which engaged in secondary boycotts. The then Minister said: 
Collective secondary boycotts are prohibited where they have both the purpose and effect of either substantially damaging a particular business or substantially lessening competition in a market. Secondly, the Government believes that the Trade Practices Act should take an even handed approach to secondary boycotts and apply, so far as possible, to both business and employees alike. 
What humbug! The Minister continued: 
Where employees are taking action for a dominant purpose substantially related to the remuneration, conditions of employment, termination of employment, hours of work or working conditions of those employees, or fellow employees of the same employer, the secondary boycott is not prohibited. 
That is what he said. This of course was the legislation under which the Utah Development Corporation instigated litigation against the Seamens Union of Australia for attempting to ensure that Australian crews were employed on vessels carrying the 12 million tonnes of coal, worth $620m, that Utah exported to Japan in 1977. One could argue that under the Minister's interpretation- seeing that these employees were certainly struggling around conditions of employment and the right to work- this legislation should never have been successfully used against the Seamen's Union of Australia. Now this Government finds that after all its attempts to suppress the trade union movement, its section 45D legislation is still deficient. This latest amendment to section 45 D reads in summary: 
It will be a contravention for a person to engage in concerted conduct with another person for the purpose and the effect of preventing or substantially hindering a third person, not the employer of the first mentioned person, from engaging in interstate, territorial or overseas trade and commerce. 
The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  in his second reading speech on 26 October this year, said that he wanted the changes to section 45D to be more effective in respect of secondary boycotts. He said that conduct of this sort strikes at the heart of the prosperity of Australia and affects us all. He was certainly saying that it was against our best interests as a nation. Let me quickly prove to this House that not all of the boycotts of this nature which have been imposed by the Australian trade union movement in the past have been against the best interest of the nation. 
For instance, let me remind the House that in December 1938, long before my time on the waterfront, members of the Seamen's Union in Port Kembla imposed a ban- this Government would call it now a secondary boycott- on the export of pig iron to Japan. It is known in history as the Dalfram dispute. Wages were low in those days. It was at the end of the Depression and jobs were difficult to get. Nevertheless, even in that far off time Australian workers had the good sense to know when a government was acting against the national interest. The late  Sir Robert  Menzies earned his sobriquet of 'Pig Iron Bob' during that dispute as he attempted to impose the Government's will on those workers. But the workers had reasoned correctly. They had reasoned that Australians might receive Australian pig iron back from Japan in the shape of bombs and shells. But the Tory government of the day successfully beat them into submission and the pig iron was exported. Some of it may have ended up back on Darwin in 1942. Who was right in 1 93 8- the Government or the men? 
Similarly in 1946 the Dutch colonialists, after World War II, attempted to regain their empire in the East Indies. If there was one single trade union boycott that had a decisive effect on world history it was the Australian maritime boycott on the loading of arms in Australian ports on Dutch ships that were bound for the Dutch East Indies. I was not on the waterfront then but I can remember seeing a film of that dispute, showing one or two Dutch ships attempting to break the embargo. But they were not successful and the Indonesian independence movement won. It was not very long before the Menzies LiberalCountry Party Coalition Government was setting up diplomatic relations with Indonesia. Today Australian governments sometimes point out to the Indonesians the beneficial effect that the Australian bans in 1946 had on their struggle for independence. Perhaps this Government should explain to the Indonesians that it was really the good sense of the rank and file workers that prevent Dutch colonialism from using Australia as a base for Dutch attempts to reimpose colonialism on the Indonesian Archipelago. Was not the result of the 1946 boycott proved correct by world history? 
Let us take another example. In the 1960s, during my own dme as a waterside worker, I saw maritime bans on shipping bound for Vietnam. Perhaps the best known of all was in the early days of the Whitiam Labor Government when the then President of the United States, Richard Nixon, that pillar of righteousness and fair play ordered the renewed bombing of Haiphong and Hanoi What a howl of protest went up from members opposite when Australian unionists once again imposed a ban on American shipping. The unionists were also proven correct by history. We now have good diplomatic relations with Vietnam and that country has an ambassador in Canberra. 
Liberal politicians were in favour of the bombing of Haiphong and Hanoi, but Australian workers were not and it was the Australian workers who were proven correct. I remember very well the September of 1973. I remember that at that time as a waterside worker I was attending an all-ports federal conference. To our sorrow we heard that the armed forces in Chile had overthrown the democratic government of President Allende and had imposed a military dictatorship. Thousands of trade unionists, workers and citizens were being murdered and persecuted. We spontaneously imposed a trade ban on that government and it endured for a number of years. However, it may not have been one of the most successful bans in that it did not remove Pinochet government. That will happen one day; nothing is more certain than that. In the meantime it was the Australian people who were right in refusing to recognise and trade with a government of murderers. They, not Liberal politicians with their craven attitudes and those people who wish to gain in the short term, will receive the accolades of future historians. 
I mention these matters to illustrate that quite often governments are wrong and the ordinary person is right. It is fine for the Minister to argue that the Government is determined to legislate to deal with conduct which prevents or hinders Australia's legitimate trading or commercial activities. Let us examine the case in which Australian seamen took on the Utah company. Are not the Australian seamen entitled to man Australian ships carrying Australian coal to Japan? The United Nations Committee for Trade and 
Development has said that any nation is entitled to carry 40 per cent of its exports and imports on its own ships. The Austraiian Government supports the Japanese Government, commercial interests and cross-traders of the world in attacks on Australian employment but will not take action to see that at least some Australians are employed on these iron ore and coal ships. Instead of that it wants to use this legislation to attack these people who are really only fighting for jobs in the face of massive recession and in the face of lost job opportunities and the certainty of 500,000 unemployed next year plus 300,000 drop-outs from the labour force. Surely Australian workers are entitled to fight for the right to work. 
Why is it that the Australian National Line- I would like an answer to this question from the Minister when he sums up this legislation tonight- after having purchased four large bulk iron ore carriers in the vicinity of 130,000 tons dead weight each are still trying to get a cargo for two of them in the Japanese iron ore trade? I believe two of those ships are still anchored in the Norwegian fiords after two years. It would be an act of national loyalty, not an act of sabotage, for workers to strike to see that those ships obtained cargoes. 
Let me recapitulate on the latest oil fiasco in Victoria. We saw a country petrol seller,  Mr Gorman,  take action against the Transport Workers Union under the controversial section 45d of the Trade Practices Act because that union was saying that workers transporting fuel to  Mr Gorman's  depot should be paid under the Federal and not the Victorian State award. Last week we saw the usual huffing and puffing, union baiting and stirring by this Government. In the end, as usual, it was a conference that reached a compromise on this matter. I suppose in a sense it can be argued that it was the threat of action under section 45D that caused the Transport Workers Union to reach the compromise. On the other hand it can be equally argued that it was the wildcat action of  Mr Gorman  in invoking section 45d that caused the strike in the first place. 
Therein lies the root of the argument expounded by our shadow Minister tonight. It is not the big companies really with large sums at stake that will probably be the main users of the new Bill. I exempt Utah from that statement because it is a rule and a law unto itself. In the main the small business operators like  Mr Gorman,  the small operators who think nothing of the national interest but only their own particular interest, will be the ones who will invoke action under section 45D. They will not have so much to lose, but they will have the power to cause the most massive disruption. This Government must think twice before placing such a weapon in the hands of irresponsible small business operators. 
I conclude by urging Ministers to stop and think of the nation for once instead of trying to stir up and cause more trouble for the trade union movement. They should not take sides all the time with sectional interests or accept the views espoused by members of the Country Party- people in agriculture and mining interests. They should think for once of the nation and of the trouble that they will cause. What about their getting on with the job of restoring the economy for once? If they cannot do it they should resign and let the Labor Party do the job for them by resuscitating the economy with selective government expenditure and social services in the right area. They should not take the advice of the extreme right wing back benchers who are spoiling for a fight just to take the emphasis off their own inadequacies. 
-The minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has introduced this National Health Amendment Bill to ameliorate some of the anomalies that have appeared since the package of legislation was passed some weeks ago. It is the most positive example we have had yet that the Minister and the Government are in fact engaged in making policies on health insurance on the run. The House, of course, will remember the substance of that legislation passed some weeks ago. Of course, then we saw the abolition of Medibank Standard, the removal of the levy- the 40 per cent general subsidy paid to all people whether they are in health insurance or not- and, of course, the abolition of general bulk billing. The theory was that bulk billing would be abolished for all people except pensioners, for whom doctors would receive 85 per cent of the medical fee, and disadvantaged people, for whom doctors would receive 75 per cent. 
The effect of this legislation was to create two pools of health insurance. As I said in my speech on that occasion, it creates a position that is actuarially unsound. We ought to have one single health insurance fund in Australia. Surely the best principles of funding demand that. The Minister in fact is inciting people to gamble with their own future good health. This creates a situation where a number of those people who are in fact healthy will stay out of health insurance, while those who are chronically ill and those who have large families, of course, will seek health insurance. The whole basis of successful insurance funding is that all people should be in one pool. Australians are entitled to expect that during their lifetime they will be adequately covered by the cheapest and best system of health insurance. That should mean that people, when they are young and healthy, should be paying to help subsidise those who are not so lucky. Of course, as time moves on and they themselves become older then there is another group coming up behind them, so to speak, to help keep down their health insurance rates. I repeat that this position is actuarially unsound. As I said before, the Minister knows it. In his second reading speech, the Minister said:  . . I would like to inform honourable members that the Government's new health insurance arrangements are working exceptionally smoothly . . . 
He must be joking. Firstly, we saw the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia outrage. I put it to the Minister that what happened when the HCF in New South Wales moved to exclude the chronically ill from the 100 per cent cover was inevitable. It was always going to happen because it was inherent in the system that the Government created. I ask: Why allow the insurance funds the opportunity to take such action? Why do we need all these private health insurance funds in Australia? It would be much simpler and more efficient if we simply had the one national health insurance fund in Australia. 
I will give another example of why the legislation that the Minister put before the Parliament some weeks ago is certainly not working smoothly. I refer to the bulk billing situation. Certainly with Medibank Mark I and Medibank Mark II doctors were able to bulk bill on behalf of everyone. Of course, that was changed some months ago. A great deal of evidence is mounting that doctors in fact are not prepared to bulk bill for disadvantaged persons and, in some cases, for pensioners. The worst feature of this aspect of the legislation was that the doctors themselves were allowed to decide who was a disadvantaged person. They were to be the arbitrators, so to speak- the unpaid social security agents for the Minister. I predicted trouble then and I submit that I was right. I said that there are 24,000 doctors in Australia and we could have some 24,000 different sets of criteria. Hard evidence is mounting that many doctors, particularly specialists, and also x-ray centres and pathology centres are refusing to bulk bill. In fact, many of then are demanding cash. I shall read into  Hansard  an article which appeared in the  Illawarra Daily Mercury  to re-inforce my statement. 
I ask the honourable member to listen to it and he will find out what is happening. It states: 
A 1 3-year-old girl with a respiratory complaint was turned away from a Dapto doctor's surgery this week because her mother did not have the $9 with her to pay for a consultation. 
Under the Medical Practitioners' Act, the doctor was legally in the right. 
It goes on to state: 
From a doctor's point of view, her condition was not serious. 
But her mother . . . was worried. She thought her daughter's condition was serious. 
It goes on to mention the history of the patient. A history of asthma and respiratory complaints in the family had meant that they had spent hundreds of dollars on medical consultations. They had paid all their bills previously. The article continues: 
But on Monday when  Mrs Atkin  took Susan to the doctor, she was told  Dr Ali  no longer kept accounts and saw patients only on a cash basis. 
I am so angry about this that I am inclined to name doctors in my electorate who are demanding cash and who certainly will not bulk bill disadvantaged persons. We are also having trouble with pensioners. I will not read out the names but I will supply them to the Minister later if he requires them. There are at least two doctors at Shellharbour, one at Warilla and a group of at least six doctors practising together in a suburb of Wollongong called Dapto who are demanding cash before they see their patients. 
I tell the Minister that it is true. People who have been turned away have telephoned me. I refer now to the situation with pathology. In Market Street, Wollongong, there is a major private pathology centre. People, including pensioners, have telephoned me to say that this centre was bulk billing them as pensioners up until 1 November but now it is demanding cash. It will not accept the 85 per cent rebate it gets from the Department of Health. One lady gave me the following facts: 
She was sent to have some blood tests taken because of a cancer on the lip. The doctors demanded $46 from her. She was a pensioner. She paid the $46 and she had the test. Leaving aside the argument whether the doctors should be bulk billing, this example points to the real heart of the trouble. The doctors who are sending these people to these private clinics are at fault. I made inquiries and I found that that test could have been done at the public hospitals at Wollongong or Port Kembla. Why was it not done there? 
All of this evidence is mounting up. What will the Minister do about it? He said in his second reading speeches on this Bill- he knows what he said so I will not bother picking up the  Hansard  and reading it out- that the Government would watch the situation very closely and if the system was not working he would take some action. I understand also that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  stated in relation to these cases:  the Minister for Health and his Department would want to hear about them because the Government intends to take whatever action is necessary to overcome any difficulties that may result from the Government's proposals for disadvantaged persons. 
That is recorded on page 1632 of Senate  Hansard.  The Opposition asks: What is the Government going to do about this situation? There are 422,000 people unemployed throughout Australia and a good percentage of doctors are refusing to treat these patients as disadvantaged people. We want to see some action on this matter. I will be very interested to hear what the Minister has to say in his reply on this legislation. 
Let me examine quickly the reasons why I believe the Australian Medical Association has always been vehemently opposed to bulk billing. I spoke to some of the members of the national executive of the Australian Medical Association and asked the direct question: 'Why have you always been opposed to bulk billing? Is it because you know that once it becomes the accepted procedure throughout Australia it will mean that the Government has in fact imposed a control on medical bills in a de facto situation simply by virtue of the fact that it has become accepted that doctors accept 75 per cent or 85 per cent of the total fee?' They said: 'Yes, of course that is the reason.' That is the real reason why the AMA has always been opposed to bulk billing. 
I think the Minister has passed up the chance to control doctors' fees. By abolishing bulk billing generally, he is supporting doctors who wish to charge the maximum fee. Surely it would have been possible to check the malpractices that undoubtedly occurred without destroying the whole concept of bulk billing. It would have been a great weapon in the Minister's hands. He says that he is seriously concerned about controlling medical costs. This would have been the way to control the costs. The main reason for increasing health costs is to maintain the fee for service system. The secondary reason is the fact that I mentioned earlier Doctors are inclined to send to specialists patients who ought not to be going to specialists. Doctors send people to private x-ray and pathology centres for blood tests and x-rays when they should be sending them to public hospitals. 
The AMA has always encouraged a sort of mystical approach to medicine. It is a hangover from the Middle Ages and even from prehistoric eras. Is there any real reason why this should be so and why this practice should be encouraged to continue? Medical practitioners and specialists acquire their training and their expertise at public educational institutions. The majority of them receive practical instruction as interns in public hospitals. Why has the AMA considered that it should dictate to society that private practice is the natural and desirable order of things? Let us take as an example the skilled engineer. Like a doctor, he has most likely been trained in a public university at the taxpayers' expense. An engineer can choose to work as an employee- that is, if he is lucky enough to obtain employment in this economic situation- or he can choose to work as a private consultant. But no one, including honourable members opposite, would seriously say that an engineer should not work for a salary. So why does the AMA supported by the Minister for Health and the Government, oppose salaried medical staff in such a biased, bigoted and sectional manner? The answer must be, above all, that the Government wishes to support the members of the AMA in their attempts to maximise the position in society, to preserve their privilege and to set their own incomes. Why does this Government not attempt to control doctors' incomes in some way as it moves to control the incomes of ordinary wage and salary earners? It is all very strange, particularly as the Minister is so very fond of lecturing us on the necessity to control escalating health costs. 
I ask further What of the future? What is to be done about health insurance in Australia? I submit that we ought to go back to the concept of a single national scheme. We could do that by increasing the 40 per cent general subsidy to 75 per cent or 85 per cent, by once again allowing bulk billing for those doctors who would accept the return as a set percentage of the bill without charging for the remainder of the bill. In fact, that would be going back to the Medibank mark 1 situation. I think the argument how it should be funded- whether by a levy or by general taxation- is academic. Probably a levy would be necessary but that would be infinitely preferable to the present situation. Having re-established Medibank as the single system of national health insurance, we must ensure that it is not just a means of guaranteeing fee for service for doctors. We have to do something extra. I hope that, when the Labor Party achieves government in 1980, after having set up that medical insurance system, we will also move to set up medical centres employing salaried doctors so that the new Medibank does not just become a system of guaranteeing doctors' salaries in the fee for service system. 
How do we overcome the objections of the AMA? We overcome those objections very simply. The Minister for Health, the AMA, the Health Commission and  Dr Sidney  Sax all tell us that the universities and colleges of advanced education are turning out too many doctors. 
Yes. A report in the  Sydney Morning Herald  under the heading 'AMA call for cut in student intake' tells how many doctors there are now in Australia- some 24,000. It states that if we continue at the present rate by 1991 there will be 32,200 doctors in Australia one for every 500 people, and that that will be too many. It states that we ought to help to preserve the AMA's privileged position by cutting the intake. What nonsense that is. We should be turning out the same number of doctors and not allowing them to go on unemployment relief. We should be employing them in government medical centres. That is what we should do with the extra doctors whom the universities are turning out. That is why the AMA wants to cut back the intake. 
This Bill is conspicuous for what it does not do rather than for what it does. I have carefully spelled out the proven deficiencies of the Government's latest Medi-muddle and what ought to be done. Let the Minister try again. Let him bring down legislation that will provide for 85 per cent of the scheduled fee to be returned to doctors who bulk bill for all services. Let the surplus of doctors and specialists who are being turned out from universities and colleges of advanced education be employed in hospitals, outpatient departments and medical centres at a generous salary. It would be far cheaper to do that than to carry on the way we are. Let the Minister stop, think and start again. Let him try to bring down a health insurance system that will serve the people of Australia, not just the medical profession. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker- 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the performance by the new Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the Government in today's debate on the gravity of the employment situation was pathetic. They still blame the so-called sins and omissions of the previous Federal Labor Government for the current horrifying figures. The honourable members for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and Batman  (Mr Howe)  were blamed for allegedly putting no constructive propositions forward but the responsible Minister offered nothing himself. 
-Did the Minister for Trade and Resources at a recent conference of New South Wales coal producers set a lower parameter of $47 per tonne for sale of southern New South Wales coking coal to Japan? Did Kembla Coke and Coal Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of Conzinc Rio 
Tinto of Australia Ltd, and Peko- Wallsend Ltd indicate to Japanese steel mills that $45.60 per tonne would be acceptable in exchange for a 25 per cent increase in contract tonnages? If so, did this action disadvantage other New South Wales producers who negotiated within the guidelines, such as Bellambi Coal Co. Ltd, in respect of prices and tonnages? Will the Minister indicate that the parameter he originally set will now be maintained? 
-This legislation continues the interminable series of Bills designed to plug the tax avoidance schemes with which this Government is plagued. It is a little like the boy with his finger in the dyke or perhaps like Horatio defending Rome against the Barbarians. Perhaps the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  sees himself as a valiant defender of the Treasury against those who would assault the Federal revenues. In his second reading speech he said that it was the Government's intention that income tax avoidance legislation should be retrospective to the date of the announcement. Then he said that he was convinced, however, that this was the right way to take action against what, in most instances, were blatantly contrived and artificial arrangements. If he wants to be even more effective, I advise him to accept our suggestion that all income tax avoidance legislation be retrospective to the beginning of the current year. More to the point, when will he undertake the task of rewriting section 260 of the Act to simplify the whole procedure? I know that that task will be like cleaning out the Aegean stables, but the longer he postpones this Herculean but vitally necessary task, the longer we in this place will be subjected to these interminable piecemeal attempts to stop the tax cheats. 
How cunning they are. This legislation prevents the schemers from securing income tax deductions for pre-payments of expenditure which involve payouts of sums which are substantially less than claimed. It is staggering to see the Treasurer of the Australian Government describing in this Parliament a scheme whereby a taxpayer can obtain a loan, immediately pay back most of it as an interest-free payment, buy back the right of the loan for a much smaller amount and then claim the so-called interest payment as a full tax deduction. 
How much longer do we have to fight a defensive battle against this sort of thing? Why is the ordinary wage earner harassed through the courts when, say, an incorrect deduction for a working wife is made but no punitive action is taken against these high income frauds? I could refer to a case I encountered recently where a low income worker inadvertently over-claimed for his working wife. She had earned the magnificent sum of $1,500 for the year. He was summonsed at short notice before the New South Wales court, even though the $370-odd involved was immediately offered to the Commissioner. What a contrast with the lenient treatment of the quasi-legal tax frauds. At least the Treasurer now seems to be spared the waitings of those in his own party who would oppose retrospective legislation as a means of combating these fraudulent machinations. 
During the consideration of the recent Bill to outlaw the Curran scheme, I, like many others, received a veritable barrage of letters urging such things as the application of the rule of Roman law. A former Liberal Prime Minister was a leading exponent of this argument, but it was always a question of the use of legislative power in the common interest- not law but power. The people who use the retrospectivity argument to support the tax dodgers use legislative power unhesitatingly to attack people such as pensioners. So why do they shrink from the use of power to prevent these raids on the national exchequer? One can support the decision to tax income from overseas sources that is paid into and then derived from a trust or partnership. It seems that once again the High Court of Australia decided, on a strictly legal interpretation of tax laws, to benefit tax avoidance. As the law stands, people can escape being taxed on an income earned overseas and accumulated in domestic trusts. Certainly it is time that this matter was attended to. 
But what about the use of family trusts here in Australia as an income splitting tax avoidance measure? These schemes are used by the very people who can afford to pay tax. They are practically not available to ordinary people. In their simplest form they involve the distribution of profits to beneficiaries being included in total taxable income, and only normal personal income tax is paid. As an example, $50,000 distributed to five beneficiaries would raise a total tax of only $10,225. If the full amount had been taxed $22,470 would have been raised. So $12,245 has been avoided in that hypothetical exercise. Let us see what could be done. Company tax of 46 per cent could be applied to trust incomes before distribution and then sums distributed to beneficiaries should be included as taxable income. This would give a total tax payable in this exercise of $25,520 or over $15,000 more than is currently payable by anyone using these trusts to avoid their legitimate tax obligations. Is the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  using such a simple family trust as this? When will he release details of his own tax avoidance? 
What about the broken pledge to tax foreign dividends received by Australian companies which are now totally free of Australian company tax? I remind the House how in June last year the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said this was an intolerable position and would be cleaned up. But on 25 October last year he cravenly informed us that such legislation would not proceed. Why was this decision made? The fair taxing of overseas earnings of Australian companies is overdue for two reasons: Firstly, because of the revenue involved; and, secondly, to prevent Australian companies deliberately relocating overseas to take advantage of low tax structures and tax havens. In the research report of the Bureau of Industry Economics entitled 'Industrialisation in Asia- Some Implications for Australian Industry', we see the following statement: 
The developing Asian economies are attractive for off shore investment for reasons additional to the availability of relatively low priced labour. Most of the countries offer a generous set of incentives for the establishment of industries, companies tax holidays- and a disciplined labour force. 
A good many Australian companies have already taken advantage of these attractions. What is the Government going to do about taxing their earnings? As the  Australian Financial Review  says, about 25 per cent of a sample of 120 Australian companies have subsidiaries operating in Hong Kong or other tax havens, among them the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, Acmil Ltd, Bradmill Industries Ltd, Comalco Industries Pty Ltd, Dunlop Rubber Australia Ltd, Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd and a number of smaller manufacturers. 
There is a rapid fall in employment in the Australian manufacturing sector. The Australian Manufacturing Council reports that employment in Australian manufacturing is currently down about 200,000 persons on the peak reached five years ago. The Council also says that 91,500 jobs have been lost in the last year. It predicts a further 80,000 people a year will be unable to get jobs in manufacturing from now until 1986. We should consider very seriously whether Australian manufacturers should be encouraged to re-locate in South East Asia simply to enjoy a tax holiday'. As we hear so often, the Australian services sector has been the big growth area in the last two decades. Now new technology will reduce employment there too- particularly in banking finance. One reads that employment in banking will decline by 40 per cent in the next 10 years. 
The Commonwealth Employment Service document entitled 'School Leaver Survey in NSW and the ACT' presents a generally gloomy picture of overall employment prospects for young people in the years ahead in the retailing, manufacturing, finance, insurance and construction industries. The Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research estimates only a 2.3 per cent growth rate in the non-farm sector this year. It says that at least a 4 per cent growth rate is required if unemployment is not to worsen. So unemployment will continue to increase. 
It is against this worrying background that the Government refuses to discourage the haemorrhage of Australian investment funds overseas. During the controversy over this proposed tax on off-shore earnings last year it was said by the  Australian Financial Review  that 'Australia was taking the first steps on the international tax gathering road'. The United States of America and other nations already implement this tax on foreign company dividends. Because of the Treasurer's craven refusal to proceed with this tax, Australia will not now take even the first timid step. 
The Treasurer is implementing this income tax legislation for one reason- the Government needs the money. It will need to do more if it wants to contain the 1978-79 Budget deficit to the Budget figure of $2,8 13m. For instance, the Budget estimate of $785m for expenditure on unemployment benefit will be well exceeded. It will be more like $950m. Now that the Government has renounced a retail turnover tax or value added tax, we can expect the Treasurer to be looking for other means to raise income besides just plugging tax avoidance schemes. What will happen to the 1.5c in the dollar income tax surcharge the Government is committed to discontinue in the next financial year? Will it be tempted to retain the surcharge and thus add another broken promise to its already long list? The great temptation to implement a VAT stemmed from the perceived need to abolish or reduce State payroll taxes which I agree can be portrayed as a tax on employment. But how to recompense the States for the $ 1,500m so forgone was the $64 question. 
The rationale for a broad indirect tax on consumption was ill considered, but there is a need to raise extra revenues without raising income tax on low and average wage and salary earners. The Government should now consider other forms of taxes as an alternative to the value added tax. We are possibly, despite what the Prime Minister tried to put over today, the only advanced Western industrialised nation without any tax at all on capital. The United States has levied a capital gains tax since 1913. Short term capital gains are taxed at normal rates, while longer term gains are taxed at 50 per cent of the net gain at normal rates or on a special rate of 25 per cent on the first $50,000 and 35 per cent thereafter. The United Kingdom also imposes a capital gains tax at 50 per cent of the full taxation rate for the first £5,000 of gain and the full rate thereafter or at an alternative flat rate of 30 per cent. Such countries- this is important with regard to what the Prime Minister said todayhave general exemptions for principal private residences, personal goods and chattels, such as cars and so on. That is obviously what we ought to be doing in Australia. 
Perhaps also there is a very strong case for the imposition of a wealth tax, because in Australia one per cent of our people own 22 per cent of accumulated wealth and the top 5 per cent own 46 per cent of all accumulated wealth. Some of these are the very people whom the Treasurer is now seeking to prevent from avoiding tax. Simply speaking, the Australian Government could tax 46 per cent of Australia's privately accumulated wealth by taxing only the richest 5 per cent. It is difficult to calculate the appropriate threshold level at which this tax could be imposed in such an exercise, but my guess is that the threshold level would be no less than $100,000. So why is it that the Prime Minister deliberately seeks to mislead this House and the Australian people when he says that capital gains taxes will affect ordinary people's homes or that the Opposition would levy wealth taxes on workers' savings? He is misleading the nation and misleading this House. 
The Prime Minister has referred in his so called 'state of the nation' speech to a range of possible capital investments in Australia. He does not say that his optimistic, euphemistic assessments almost totally involve the exploitation, and in some cases the processing, of our precious non-renewable mineral and energy resources. It cannot be said that these projects will be labour intensive. It can be said that there is a need for a resources tax to tax adequately the rapid exploitation of non-renewable energy reserves. The diminution of these reserves can be just as real through the use of massive amounts of Australian energy in the upgrading of raw materials such as bauxite to alumina and aluminium as through the export or domestic use of the actual raw energy. The refusal of this Government to implement a resources rent tax on a company by company or development by development basis at an appropriate and acceptable threshold level of profits, expressed as a percentage of capital investment, amounts to the allowance of tax avoidance on the grandest of scales. 
Let us take the case of the Utah Development Corporation. Certainly, its profits fell from $ 1 5 8m to $ 1 3 8m last year. 
Yes, that was after paying tax. But the decision to impose a branch profit tax of 5 per cent on dividends remitted overseas raised only a miserable $13m. A resources tax would have raised at least four times that amount. The profit for Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, based on normal accounting methods, was $ 161m for the last six months of 1978. The majority of that profit came from the company's oil and gas division. This raises the spectre of the Government's misguided crude oil policies. We know that the present import parity policy will return $700m this year to the Federal Treasury. But this return will decline as the percentage of old oil returning full parity prices to Esso-BHP phases up year by year until it reaches 100 per cent. So in this case, Esso-BHP stands to make a yearly windfall profit ranging from $300m this year to $700m in 1980-81. There is no adequate tax mechanism. The Esso-BHP consortium is making these millions of dollars of profit solely as the result of a Government decision. There is no adequate tax mechanism for the years ahead. The $3 per barrel levy will be insufficient when the 1977 policy is phased up to full maturity. Honourable members opposite cannot deny that. In addition, there are no guarantees that any of these ad hoc measures will result in conservation of oil or that the majority of the windfall gains will be used for oil exploration. Aside from Bass Strait, only $143m has been allocated - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's remarks are not altogether relevant to the matter before the House. 
-I take your point,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  However, I ask you to take my point also. I am arguing that the lack of an appropriate taxation mechanism on oil profits which results from a Government decision has led to the most massive tax avoidance. At any rate, I accept your ruling and I will continue with my remarks. The oil companies tell me that the oil exploration dollar is a mobile dollar - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I thought that this was a wide-ranging debate. I accept your ruling. However, let me conclude that part of my speech. Australia is being ripped off because there is no adequate tax mechanism for the years ahead on oil profits which will be derived because of the Government's decision. Let me now summarise the points that I have made: The Government should make this type of legislation retrospective to the beginning of the financial year. Secondly, dividends paid in Australia to shareholders of companies which are located offshore should be taxed here in Australia. Thirdly, the Government, instead of rubbishing the Opposition's attempts to explore new tax mechanisms, should seriously consider the implementation of a capital gains tax with appropriate exemptions. It should also implement a resources rent tax on the mining and export of nonrenewable energy reserves. It should rewrite section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act because only then will this House be spared this interminable series of Bills. 
-Despite what the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said, it is not the Australian Labor Party which is the high tax party in this country; it is the present Government parties. The fact is that the figures are unassailable. In the Labor years- that is, 1973-74 to 1975-76- total Federal public authority receipts as a percentage of the gross domestic product registered 24.8 per cent. But in the years of the present Government- 1 976-77 and 1978-79- the percentage rose to 26.1 percent. In another area, total personal income tax receipts as a percentage of total Federal receipts was 46 per cent in 1973-74 and rose to 50 per cent in 1977-78. Take the situation regarding payasyouearn income taxes. Those taxes as a percentage of total wages and salaries in 1973-74 totalled 18.2 per cent. They rose to 2 1.6 per cent in 1977-78. The total taxation revenue in Australia rose from $10.8 billion in 1973-74 to $23.8 billion in 1978-79. That is a rise of 120 per cent. But the total inflation rate rise since 1973 has been much less, 78.6 per cent. With regard to the individual situation, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said that a taxpayer earning $220 a week is better off now than he was under the previous Labor government. This statement is just not true. After 1 November 1979 that person earning $220 a week, with a spouse and dependent child, will pay tax of $38.82 per week. Under the Hayden tax system introduced in 1975 the same taxpayer would pay $35.69 a week. Even if the rate scales had been only partially indexed, as the Government has done, he would be paying $3.13 less in tax a week. 
Everything this Government does in the taxation field is inequitable. We should look at its record in the last Budget. We should look at its taxes. It imposed increases in indirect taxation. It increased tariffs on imported goods subject to quota by 12.5 per cent. What about the broken promise when it reverted to half-yearly tax indexation? I understand that action cost taxpayers approximately $500m. Let us remember the 1.5 cents in the dollar surcharge. That has cost taxpayers- that is wage and salary earners- $600m. Let me repeat that surcharge ought to be seen in relation to the so-called tax cuts of February 1978. It ought to be repeated that the combination of those two decisions means that a person earning $238 per week does not benefit whilst a person earning $500 per week is $ 1 5 per week better off. Let us also examine the effect of the oil levy- the biggest Budget ripoff of all. I understand that $l,238m will revert to government revenue as a result of the oil levy and of the increased excise duties, which account for $700m of that $l,238m. Of course, that does not include the windfall profits to the oil companies as a result of that Government decision-$327m, rising to approximately $700m by 1981-82. 
It is no secret that this Government is in trouble over containing its deficit. Mainly because of the increase in the number of unemployed the Budget outlay of $785m for unemployment benefits will most certainly blow out to at least $950m. What will the Government do? Will it retain the 1.5 cents in the dollar surcharge after all or will it reduce the 40 per cent general health subsidy as an alternative? Whatever this Government does we can count on the fact that it will be inequitable. The Treasurer seriously considered a retail turnover tax and a value added tax on goods and services. That was predictable because consumer taxes basically are inequitable. But what is the Government doing to ease the personal income tax burden? How much longer will family trusts be allowed as a means whereby the rich escape their tax obligations? The average wage earner shoulders the brunt of tax responsibility. Ordinary people cannot afford the luxury of a tax haven offered by a family trust. As income splitting devices, such tax avoidance schemes save the wealthy perhaps $100m annually. If one takes the example of $50,000 being distributed to five beneficiaries in this way, the Treasury would receive a total tax of just in excess of $10,000. If the full amount were taxed as a single person's income, the Treasury would have raised $22,470. So in the hypothetical exercise $12,245 in tax has been avoided. We know that this sort of tax avoidance is happening all the time. If the Government is serious about containing tax avoidance it will do something about the use of family trusts as income splitting devices. 
The Prime Minister constantly misrepresents the position of the Opposition, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  regarding the imposition of a capital gains tax. As the shadow Treasurer has said in this debate, we are the only Western industrialised nation which does not impose a tax on capital. The United States of America and the United Kingdom certainly raise revenue from such a tax. I understand that in the United Kingdom the first £5,000 of capital gains are subjected to tax at 50 per cent of the going rate and at the full rate thereafter. When one considers what was put forward by the Leader of the Opposition with regard to a threshold of $200,000 accumulated wealth before a tax can be applied to capital gains, one can see how very reasonable is his proposal in comparison with the situation which pertains overseas. 
While I am speaking on this subject I might as well talk about a wealth tax, because 5 per cent of Australians own 46 per cent of accumulated wealth. Obviously, the Government is reneging on its responsibilities by avoiding the imposition of a resource rent tax on exploitation of our precious non-renewable energy resources. Such a tax could be implemented at an appropriate threshold level as a profit percentage against total investment and at a fixed level on profits thereafter. Perhaps coal is the perfect example of a resource in relation to which such a tax could be equitably imposed, but oil would be another important resource. 
Let us examine quickly the reasons for the imposition of the Government's oil import parity policy. It is said that that policy has been imposed for two reasons, namely, to conserve crude oil and to encourage further exploration. There is no real evidence to suggest that it has been over-successful in either of those two areas. Despite windfall profits of $300m this year to Esso-BHP- it is estimated that that company will receive $700m in 1981-82 and perhaps between $3,000m and $4,000m over the next six to eight years- it has allocated only $143m for exploration in our most promising area, namely, the Exmouth Gulf in Western Australia. It is time that we broke the nexus between the oil prices of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the price of domestic crude oil. Unless we do that Australian consumers will be paying the penalty. We should have a flexible oil price policy which provides for the imposition of a resource tax and perhaps the payment of direct rebates from the Federal Government to the oil companies for exploration actually undertaken. The Treasurer- let me refer to him as Fraser 's razor- is out to slash the incomes of wage and salary earners while the wealthy batten on tax avoidance, the use of family trusts and the absence of capital gains tax. We need a democratic tax system which serves the people and the nation, instead of a system devised by elitists to benefit the few to the disadvantage of the many. 
-This is legislation to extract the last remaining teeth of the Prices Justification Tribunal. After flirting with the idea of abolition, the Government, in the words of our amendment: 'Seeks to direct and restrict the Tribunal, destroy its independence and render it subject to governmental influence and control'. Rarely has a Minister's second reading speech been so blatant in obscuring the Government's real intentions under such an effusion of euphemistic generalities. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  said that the Bill would ensure adequate surveillance of prices and improve the capacity of the PJT to inquire into prices that need to be examined. I cannot see how this is so. The previous legislation was ineffective enough as it was. In 1973 and 1974, 87 per cent of the total number of notices of proposed price increases were approved without public inquiry, and only 10.9 per cent were approved at a lower price than originally notified. In 1975-76 these percentages were 84.9 per cent and 9.4 per cent respectively. 
The original Act was passed in 1973 by the Federal Labor Party Government which was then concerned with checking inflation resulting from exorbitant profiteering and price increases. It was felt that a Prices Justification Tribunal, backed by power of public inquiry, could successfully reduce unwarranted price increases. A secondary reason was the possibility of forcing less efficient firms to improve production processes, as an alternative to simply raising prices as a means of retaining their profit levels. Let me relate the powers then given to the Tribunal. Companies with a turnover in excess of $20m a year were obliged to notify the Tribunal of intended price increases. There was a penalty of $10,000 for failure to do so. The PJT could then accept the increase, recommend a lower increase, or opt for a public inquiry. The inquiry was to be conducted within three months and a further two weeks was allowed for Ministerial consideration of the findings. Although there was no compulsion to abide by the PJT decision, surprisingly there was little if any evidence that the companies involved ever flouted the decisions. 
Let us now look at what the Minister blandly proposes in his misleading statement that the powers of the PJT will be broadened and strengthened. No longer will companies be required to notify the Tribunal of intended price increases. Notification will be limited to those who have been subjected to a public inquiry and then only for the next 12 months after that inquiry. The Tribunal apparently is to be permitted to initiate inquiries based on its own surveillance. But there is a  Catch 22  situation whereby a consultative process involving the Tribunal and the companies concerned must take place first to decide whether such an inquiry is necessary. If the PJT decides to proceed to inquiry it must first seek approval of" the Federal Minister. Further, the Minister can determine the time for completion of such an inquiry. Confidentiality provisions, in the words of the Minister: 'Will be tightened to protect the competitive position of companies under review'. All of this is aimed at protecting companies from public scrutiny. What about protecting the public from unwarranted price increases? 
The effect of all this is to make the PJT a creature of the Fraser Government and, to some extent, of the companies also. The effect, firstly, of a company not being required to give prior notification of price increases; secondly, of the Tribunal being compelled to indulge in a consultative process; and, thirdly, of the need for Ministerial approval before an inquiry commences, places the Tribunal in a much weaker position than before. Once a company decides to increase prices, the Tribunal is on the defensive right from the start. Any action it subsequently takes must be justified. This would be after the horse has bolted. The Tribunal is in the impossible position of having to justify intervention to prevent price increases which are an accomplished fact. So we see the following Gilbertian scenario developing. Let us imagine that petrol refineries increase their prices, and the Tribunal considers that those increases may be unwarranted. The Tribunal then undergoes a consultative inquiry with the petrol companies. It then goes to the Minister for approval. Given the present need to pass on Federal Government instigated price increases for crude oil, such approval probably would not be forthcoming. 
If we ever got to a public inquiry into a heavy price increase for a major commodity, companies could then tender evidence and claim confidentiality. The Tribunal again is on the defensive if it wishes to make public any argument posed by the companies, an argument that might be entirely specious. This charade must be extremely gratifying to companies which  have already raised prices or which intend to do so in future. It certainly prevents any full public scrutiny of a company's marketing and pricing operations unless a PJT inquiry is decided on and approved by the Minister. 
Even then the confidentiality clauses may be invoked by the company and of course the Minister retains overall power. He can prevent any inquiry by withholding approval. He can limit the inquiry by deciding the time limits. There is also provision for the Minister to issue general directions to the PJT regarding matters to which it should give special consideration. So the Tribunal does become a creature of the Government. It becomes servile to the Government's policies. The Tribunal loses its statutory independence. It cannot call major companies to public accountability. It loses any bite it may once have had. Its emasculation is complete. It retains purely an independent surveillance function. It is there in name only; a powerless symbol of what might have been. 
One reason for this legislation compounds the bias the Government shows against trade unionists. It relates to companies which agree to improve wage and conditions outside the so-called Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission guidelines. I said that the Minister will have power to instruct the Tribunal to investigate firms' pricing structures at his own discretion. Perhaps the Minister sees the threat of such a government-instigated inquiry as a secondary offensive instrument against trade unions which have successfully negotiated wage agreements. By this means will the Government attempt to achieve outside the Commission what its own ineffective economic arguments have failed to achieve within the Commission? 
Another reason that the Government has not abolished the Tribunal is that it wishes to retain the illusion of price control so that it can justify its further savage attacks on wages. The Government's equation for economic recovery- that is, wage cuts equals lower inflation, higher profits, more investment and ultimately more jobs- is a fallacy. Reductions in real wages have certainly taken place. The national average wage is about $25 a week less than it would have been if the 1975 promise by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  not to interfere with wage indexation had been fulfilled. Even that repository of economic wisdom, the  Australian Financial Review,  which has consistently advocated wage cuts, now admits that productivity over the last couple of years has increased quite rapidly and that any real labour cost overhang has been eliminated. I remember easily illustrating in this place last year that the Treasury assertions regarding a 5 per cent wage overhang were not sustainable. At least we have now disposed of that economic nonsense. But we can still expect this Government to oppose any flow-on of the 4.3 per cent increase in the consumer price index to the last half of 1978. 
Real wages are certainly well down and profitability is rising. Look at the profits of the petrol and oil companies. Have a look at Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Limited with its $ 1 6 1 m profit for the last half year. Why then is the Government still attacking justifiable wage increases while simultaneously removing all semblance of effective mechanism against rising prices? How long must we wait before the other half of the Prime Minister's equation is proven? That is, when will the unemployment figures start to fall? If ever Australia regains full employment it will not depend upon attacking wage increases required to compensate for spiralling prices. It will depend upon national acceptance of a wages and prices policy which is acknowledged to be necessary to protect the living standards and consumer power. Perhaps this can be best achieved by simple quarterly adjustments of the full CPI increases to at least a ceiling of the national average wage. But full employment will also depend upon the restructuring of national tax policies required to redistribute income and to ensure revenue is available to expand public sector activity. Recovery will also certainly depend upon adequate price restraint to protect purchasing power from dissipating into the bottomless vortex of increasing prices. 
Despite Government claims to the contrary, prices and inflation are escalating once again. The December CPI index of 2.3 per cent was higher than expected, which meant that inflation was 4.3 per cent for the last six months of 1978. The latest news is that prices of manufactured goods are surging ahead. Food prices in January showed the highest monthly increase for 18 months. It is certain that the CPI figure for the March quarter will approach or exceed the 2.3 per cent registered for the December quarter. Not only is inflation jammed at an annual rate of 8 per cent plus but it could very well be higher during 1979. Now is the time to streamline the PJT procedures and to strengthen its powers. The present Government's attacks on the Tribunal are most inappropriate in the present economic climate. 
It may be that by encouraging exorbitant profitability in some business areas the Government is encouraging the replacement of existing labour with expensive new technology to produce products for an export market- a market that could be somewhat less that expected. It may be that the jobs so lost will be a permanent minus in the overall domestic consumption scene. This is not an argument against modernisation of industry or the principles of export incentives and long term controlled reductions in tariffs on selected imports as advocated in the Crawford report. But it is a warning against allowing some industries to force Australian consumers to pay for their industrial restructuring via heavy increases in domestic prices. Lower wages and higher prices will mean lower living standards and increased industrial turmoil. This will be the price of the Government's wages and prices policy. 
The PJT has been subjected to criticism from industry and the present Government. It is alleged that the PJT often operates in a vacuum without clear guidlines or purpose and that it often duplicates, contradicts or impinges on the activities of the other economic regulatory authorities, that is, the Trade Practices Commission or the Industries Assistance Commission. This may or may not be so because this Government has produced no evidence either way. In support of the legislation the Government simply tells us that the Tribunal is deficient and it canvasses no options other than to emasculate and destroy it. There is a case for reform, amalgamation with the IAC or the Trade Practices Commission or perhaps the integration of all three. The role envisaged for the PJT was obviously to protect the consumer public from price exploitation by producers of goods and services. The Trade Practices Commission had even wider jurisdiction in protecting the community from restrictive trade practices, excessive monopolisation and undesirable company mergers, resale price maintenance and price discrimination by producers and wholesalers against retailers. The main role of the IAC is obviously to determine what levels of tariffs and imports are in the national interest. 
There is much valid criticism of the way in which these three authorities may be proceeding without proper knowledge of the role, policies and activities of the others. For instance, if the IAC decides to reduce tariffs on an imported commodity there should be clear liaison with the PJT to ensure that the price savings are passed on to the consumers instead of being absorbed to some extent by importers and retailers as unfortunately occurred in 1973. The PJT also should work with the Trade Practices Commission to receive proper data regarding current restrictive trade practices which may be contributing to increased prices. The PJT, unknowingly perhaps, could have been reinforcing restrictive trade practices and locking some industries into such practices. One could extend liaison on these matters to the IAC because it is often requested to pass on restrictive trade practice costs to consumers via continuing increased tariff assistance. As one economist puts it: 'For some industries the tariff wall is a barrier behind which a few Australian corporations engaged in restrictive practices'. The fact is that Australian industrialisation occurred behind tariff walls which switched demand from imported goods to domestically produced goods. With unemployment at postwar record levels, tariff reductions must and will be long in coming and difficult to obtain but unwarranted prices increases and blatant profiteering in local products must not set the pace for unwarranted maintenance or the future imposition of higher tariff levels. Why is the Minister not considering how these problems can be solved instead of seeking to destroy and emasculate the Prices Justification Tribunal? An overview authority should be established to ensure that these three major commissions work within overall policy frameworks. 
Another alternative could be to combine the operations of the three commissions into a major trade agency. Perhaps it could be a federal trade commission with branches handling the areas currently covered by the Prices Justification Tribunal, the Industries Assistance Commission and the Trade Practices Commission. This Government, unfortunately, has no imagination. It makes no attempt to solve the problems of excessive profiteering, monopolisation and industrial restructure. All this Bill does is weaken one branch of economic policy- the PJT. No doubt we can expect further attacks soon on the Industries Assistance Commission and perhaps on the Trade Practices Commission. 
This Government talks about restraining inflation but destroys its own anti-inflationary weapon. It emphasises wage restraint but encourages price increases. It makes no attempt to force its own statutory commissions to act together to formulate economic or industry and manpower policies. This Bill is hopelessly biased towards those who would maximise profits against the majority interest of the community. It should be withdrawn and legislation should be devised to strengthen, not weaken, Prices Justification Tribunal procedures. 
-The Lusher motion is derisive of women and of this Parliament. In moving his reactionary and illconceived motion the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  lays himself open not only to contempt but also to a much more serious charge. He is using the motion in an attempt to accomplish what has failed previously. The legality of abortion, as has been said many times in this debate, in a State issue. The Federal Government has control over the Australian Capital Territory and the territories only. Throughout Australia abortions are legal in one form or another. In Victoria the Menhennitt decision ruled that abortion was lawful if it was necessary to preserve the woman from serious danger to her life or to her physical or mental health. In New South Wales the Levine decision went further and ruled that abortion was legal if there were reasonable grounds- economic, social or medical- for believing that the operation was necessary. In South Australia a woman must be hospitalised and two doctors must agree that an abortion is necessary. 
So we all know that abortions happen and will continue to happen, whether legal or otherwise and whether or not health benefits are paid. The point is that abortions can be legal and, if they are, this House has an obligation to provide medical benefits to protect the woman's health. 
It has an obligation to provide medical benefits to protect any disadvantaged person's health. The honourable member for Hume was reported in the  Catholic Weekly  of 29 October 1978 as saying that the legality of abortions is not at issue. He said that it was a State matter with which the Commonwealth Government cannot interfere. So why does he propose to interfere now? Is it because he knows that popular opinion is against him in the more liberated States and he must therefore resort to back door tactics in a feeble attempt to get his own way? 
If the honourable member for Hume wants to change the law regarding legal abortions, why does he not say so? If he wants a debate on abortion and its legality, let us have a motion to that effect. If he wants a debate on whether abortion should be under total federal control or otherwise, let us have that debate. But let him cease these most devious, unscrupulous and unprincipled tactics. He wants abortions restricted so that women cannot receive benefits except if the abortion is made to protect the life of the mother from a physical or pathological condition. No consideration at all is given to a woman 's mental health: The suicidal tendencies to which pregnant women are prone and the extreme mental anguish perpetrated on a woman by social or economic circumstances. It is discrimination of the grossest kind to allow abortions for the rich but to condemn the poor to unwanted pregnancies or to send them to back yard abortionists or to public hospitals. The honourable member for Hume's response to that kind of discrimination- which was mentioned by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)-  when challenged by the  National Times  was to say: 
If you can afford to send your kids to Kings school, you can; if you can't, you can't. There will always be people who have more advantages than others. 1 don't think you will ever get away from it. 
We should ask ourselves whether we need politicians with that sort of mentality, people who are actively campaigning for a return to the old system of inequality. The honourable member for Hume now wishes to change his argument. He now says that the motion does not force women to go to back yard abortionists; nor does it disadvantage low income women. He points out that a woman can have her pregnancy terminated in a public hospital. That is true. But why have one scheme for the rich and another for the poor? What is the point of that? Poorer patients will be forced to enter a public hospital ward and the taxpayer will have to pay the total cost under the Commonwealth-State hospitals cost sharing agreement. The Royal Women's Hospital of Victoria has already expressed concern about this matter. The hospital asserts that if medical benefits for the termination of pregnancy are denied, many privately insured patients will seek treatment in public hospitals. In correspondence the board of management said that it was concerned that the hospital would be unable to cope with the unexpected load. If the hospitals are to provide additional termination services to cope with the load they will do so at the expense of other hospital activities. So desperate women will be forced to seek out back yard abortionists. 
The honourable member for Hume has decided to waste the time of the House because of the flexing of political muscles by minority groups such as the Right to Live organisation. This selfish, self-righteous group has no understanding of the issues involved. It is not for any religious or political group to determine what a women does with her own body. A woman can decide not to have an abortion. That is her right, as it is the right of every other woman to make her own decision. No parliament and no man has the right to impose on that woman's right. The Right to Life movement talks a great deal about the right to life but it fails to consider the right of a woman to her own life. It advocates the births of unwanted children but does nothing to enhance the quality of life for all children. It does not campaign for a mother's right to raise a child in decent socio-economic circumstances. Until a woman can raise her child in an acceptable environment and fully accept the responsibility parenthood entails, society has no right to condemn a child to the horror and misery of abuse. Until the Right to Life movement can guarantee a proper environment for a child it has no claim to its future. What is the movement doing about increasing family allowances, improving the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme and so on? At present, family allowances are not available to mothers whose children are receiving TEAS payments. I have heard much from correspondents about their objections to health funds distributing their contributions as benefits to women who have undergone termination of pregnancy. What about the woman's right to obtain benefits as a full legal member of a health fund? Are not her rights to be fully considered, as are the rights of others who interfere with her benefits?  Mr Speaker,  I thank you for your indulgence. I will now conclude my remarks. As I look around me I see the smug visage of the young fraud from Hume. I also see sad and bitter faces - 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Does the Government support  Sir Charles  Court's plans for the establishment of a nuclear power station in Western Australia? 
-Once again this Government has attempted to politicise an industrial dispute. I, like every other member of this House and members of the trade union movement, will know that it is doing so in an attempt to win some electoral mileage because of the elections to be held in Victoria next month. I note that the Government was instanced in media reports this morning as backing away from this dispute- backing away from the Transport Workers Union. Now, suddenly, the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has reversed that approach and has decided to attack. Perhaps that is just one more instance of the Government's over-sensitivity to the front page headlines of the  Australian Financial Review.  Let us look at what has happened in this industrial dispute. Here we see the Transport Workers Union on behalf of some 35,000 workers in Western Australia, Queensland, Tasmania and Victoria making a claim for an increase of $8 a week. It is true that already the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has granted that same $8 a week to a section of the Transport Workers Union in Victoria- I understand to the milk carters. It can certainly be expected that if one section of the Transport Workers Union wins its claim of $8 a week, the others will continue their struggle to obtain equity also. 
This latest statement and attack should be seen as part of the infamous industrial legislation that was introduced and passed in this Parliament during 1977. Of course, it set up the needless and useless Industrial Relations Bureau. It also set out to freeze union funds, even fine unionists and, in some extreme contingency, perhaps even gaol trade unionists. Certainly, it provided for the deregistration in certain circumstances of unions that were out on strike. I ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I ask this House: What has this type of industrial confrontation by a government ever attained? What has it ever achieved and what dispute has it ever settled? Perhaps the Government is looking to a repeat of the Victorian incident of 1969 when it was its provocative actions that incited a massive confrontation with the trade union movement which became known as the Clarrie O'Shea case. What this type of behaviour by a government achieves is to unite unionists within the particular union that is out on strike. I can assure the House of that. That is the first point. Secondly, it unites the trade union movement as a whole- the ACTU. If there is any marked disunity within union ranks we can be assured that such massive attacks by government tend to close those ranks. I speak as one who knows. 
I note that this afternoon the Minister said that his Government and his own efforts had been directed towards improving the industrial relations climate in Australia. He said: 
These efforts have resulted in a dramatic reduction in the levels of industrial disruption compared with those of the Labor Government 
What he was really saying was that over the last three years unions have substantially complied with the guidelines of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission with regard to wages. Indeed, that is what  Mr Justice  Moore said in granting a full flow-on at the last case which was the first six-monthly hearing. The Minister went on to say that he was very worried that disruptive developments had occurred in recent weeks in industrial relations which now required careful consideration by the Government. I wish to look at some examples of these disputes, other than the transport workers' dispute, which are apparently firing the Government's imagination and concern. I look around me in New South Wales and I see a continuing coal dispute wherein a number of maintenance tradesmen working at coal loaders throughout the State have made a $40 a week wage claim. Honourable members may think that that is extravagant but it is not, because those skilled tradesmen were only demanding parity with the semi-skilled and skilled men who operate the loaders. Here is the classic situation of the Government and Government members attacking skilled tradesmen who are merely seeking to bring their wage rates up to semi-skilled levels. The men who actually keep those coal loaders operational are being attacked because of that. Yet in the same breath the Government talks about and sides with the employers in their complaints that there is a deficiency of skilled tradesmen within Australia and that they must be imported from overseas. That is how this Government treats its skilled tradesmen. 
Let me go further to show how ridiculous is the support for this sort of position. In Port Kembla some 35 maintenance men sought that wage increase. If it had been granted it would have meant an extra $73,000 a year from the coal companies. The  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  by his craven backdown to the Japanese and several coal companies in New South Wales and by refusing to stand by the original minimum parameters he set in negotiations with the Japanese, lost $1.50 for each tonne of coal sold. Over two years, the possible sale of 10 million tonnes meant a loss of $ 15m to the local operators. In that circumstance this Government was prepared to give $15m to the Japanese steel mill owners but it was not prepared to support Australian skilled tradesmen in a miserly claim for $73,000. That is the real position in relation to the Port Kembla and New South Wales coal strike. Let it be said here and now that as a result of that strike some 1,200 coal miners in one major mine look like being laid off and the sale of 620,000 tonnes of coal from New South Wales delayed indefinitely. The loss of that sale probably will not be recovered this year. This situation has arisen because the Government was not prepared to say that tradesmen should get as much money as semi-skilled operators. 
I now turn to the much vaunted Malaysian Airlines dispute. Here was a case where 22 people who were struggling to improve the wages of their colleagues were gaoled by what I would term a reactionary government. In response to that the International Air Transport Association, which has among its members many unions and different organisations throughout the world, called on its member organisations to support them, and because the Transport Workers Union did so it was villified by this Government. Yet, we hear members of the Government say that Australia ought to be more competitive with South East Asian producers and manufacturers. When they say that they mean that wages ought to be reduced to become more export oriented and more competitive. There are more ways than that in which to become competitive. It is in our interests that the $1.20 a day that the Malaysian workers receive be increased. Let us reverse the Government's argument: To make our workers more competitive let us argue that the Malaysian workers ought to receive more rather than that Australian workers ought to receive less. That would be in Australia's interests as we struggle for world export markets. 
I now wish to deal briefly with another dispute of a different nature. It concerns superannuation. 
There is a need for a national superannuation scheme because I do not believe that pensions will ever be lifted high enough simply by paying them out of taxation and general revenue. I believe that all schemes should eventually be pulled into a big national scheme. In the absence of such a scheme, why is there such opposition to the unions running their own scheme? I believe that they are just as qualified as are the major companies to run superannuation schemes. I participated with the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia over many years in trying to get a superannuation scheme. Finally, having attained it, we had to battle to improve it. It was certainly never as good as the State or Federal Public Service schemes but at least it was better than the companies were prepared to establish in the first place. The unions should be going one step further and running it themselves. In that circumstance they would be taking the real decisions; they would not be made by the Bank of New South Wales as investment adviser but by the unions. 
That is what the companies are very worried about. They are very worried that the unionists who want to run their own superannuation schemes will get portability of superannuation and mobility of employment, and thus improve their own ability to fight for better wages and conditions. They fear the collective power of the unions. If the unions are running a major superannuation fund and if $2,000 billion or $3,000 billion a year in workers superannuation funds is available for investment, they are entitled to make some investment decisions. Just as Utah and the Japanese are entitled to make a decision regarding a new coal mine in Queensland, it is just as much the right of the unionists and the workers to make similar decisions as to the area of the economy in which they want to invest their money. 
This Government attacks wages and it totally blames wage increases for inflation and unemployment. It ignores the fact that some $25 a week has been lost over the past  Vh  years as a result of the awarding, in nine out of 12 national wage cases, of less than full indexation. It talks about a wage overhang where productivity is supposed to lag behind wage increases. That is demonstrable nonsense. It never was a fact. Even if it were true it could never have been proved conclusively that workers' wage increases were the main cause of unemployment. This Government has no wages policy other than to oppose indexation fully. It has no wages policy at all. The position I take is that there ought to be full, automatic indexation at least up to the level of the national average wage. 
This Government gives the workers no hope that they will get wage equity. But it is not backward in emasculating the Prices Justification Tribunal, making it a creature of the Government and giving it the impossible task of trying to roll back price increases that have already occurred following a public inquiry carried out at the behest of the Minister. It can certainly be counted upon to oppose at the next national wage case any wage increase sought for the six months to the end of March. The consumer price index rose 2.3 per cent in the December quarter. What will it be for the March quarter? The figure will be out soon. Will it be 2.3 per cent, 2.5 per cent or 3 per cent? If a 5.3 per cent wage rise is needed, will this Government argue before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that there should be no wage increase? Will it then roast trade unions in the community and in the electorates because they tried to get wage increases outside the guidelines, as did the Transport Workers Union. 
This Government has no policy other than to attack workers. It also attacks pensioners. It promotes inequitable tax policies; it imposes tax surcharges. Honourable members should remember the 1.5c in the dollar tax surcharge. Does the Government intend to continue imposing that surcharge? It will not say. How many times have I listened to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  challenge the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to say what he intends to do, and he cravenly backs away from the challenge on every occasion. The Government refuses to implement a wealth or capital gains tax, despite the fact that 5 per cent of Australians own 46 per cent of Australia's wealth. It allows companies such as Esso-BHP to accumulate hundreds of millions of dollars. The Government itself pulls in $ 1,200m from workers as a result of its misguided rip-off oil policies. It makes inflammatory attacks on the ordinary people and the workers who produce Australia's real national wealth. It must hate unionists, it must hate workers and it will continue to attempt to bludgeon them. I, for one, am glad that they are fighting back. 
-I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether he is aware that five of Australia's 1 1 largest metropolitan centres are exempt from the ownership provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act because of the definition of 'metropolitan centres' under section 90(1). Will the Minister now ensure that this anomaly is rectified in the present rewriting of the Broadcasting and Television Act so that all metropolitan centres with a population in excess of, say, 120,000- such as the Gold Coast in Queensland and the City of Wollongong in New South Wales- are subject to the same ownership provisions as the six capital cities? 
-There can be no argument with the proposition that we need desperately to ensure fair world prices for our mineral and energy exports. The Federal Government should act in the national interest and not as a tool of multinational mining companies or the Japanese steel mills. It should not be steamrolled by State parochialism or by political australopithecines such as the Premiers of Western Australia and Queensland. In the past two weeks we have witnessed the most amazing disunity and confusion within the Governmnent coalition. It has culminated in the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  publicly stabbing his own  deputy.  We are yet again forced to condemn the coalition for reneging on its promises. In 1975 the coalition policy statement said: 
The Coalition would ensure that all mineral exports were monitored and surveillance would be exercised so that domestic requirements were met and there was a proper return to distributors and the nation. Export controls would be maintained over vital areas. 
Now, to placate State colleagues, the Prime Minister has forced the Liberal Party to agree that the minerals export control guidelines announced last October by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  were contrary to Liberal philosophy, unacceptable, impractical and should be withdrawn. There is much talk about the need for a bipartisan approach to energy policy. There is no hope of bipartisan approach while the Government causes its  Deputy  Prime Minister to state: 'The position is many companies have only their own interests at heart, rather than the national interest'. Everyone is bewildered by the Cabinet circus on export guidelines. The  Deputy  Prime Minister has just said that there was no split between him and his colleagues. Australians have dumbfoundedly watched the coalition spectacle of the last few weeks. It has been an arena in which clowns and prima donnas have participated to savage this country's natural resources. 
Two weeks ago the  Deputy  Prime Minister presented a Cabinet paper arguing that controls should operate in their present form. At the Liberal Party Conference in Perth, the Western Australian Premier moved in and said that there should be a minimum of government interference in the normal commercial dealings of companies. He said that export guidelines should be withdrawn. Amazingly the Prime Minister supported him. After much playing with words, the Liberal Party Conference produced a resolution which appeared to exclude iron ore from the present policy and which referred to Commonwealth-State discussions, no doubt aimed at eventually burying the  Deputy  Prime Minister. However, in Sydney last Friday the  Deputy  Prime Minister made a comeback. He said that controls would remain on iron ore, coal, bauxite, alumina, gas and uranium and that he would not sit back and allow the country to be raped and Australia turned into the biggest quarry in the world. Yet today he said that there was no split between him and his colleagues. 
To complete the charade, yesterday Australia 's chief clown, the Queensland Premier, stepped into the arena. He said that the Anthony controls were a flow-on from the Connor days. That is true. But he said that perhaps he could talk to the Commonwealth if there were a shortage of some kind of mineral. Fancy the Premier of Queensland speaking in such a vague, stupid way. When asked why he was quieter than Court on the matter he said: 
I had an assurance from the Prime Minister long ago. I know what will happen. 
Finally came the capitulation of the Deputy Prime Minister to all this pressure. Perhaps he is to be pitied rather than blamed, given the extent to which he has been undermined by his own Cabinet and his colleagues. Nevertheless, we must blame him. He is the responsible Minister. The buck stops with him. He has capitulated to the Prime Minister, the larger mining companies and the parochialism of Queensland and Western Australia. Yesterday the editorial in the  Australian,  a premier national newspaper, said that overseas buyers must think the nation is being run by fools. It stated: 
The Federal Government is utterly confused . . . The public is confused too. 
It is no wonder! 
-I am not confused but the honourable member's Cabinet is confused on this matter. The economy is in very poor shape. We cannot afford to sell Australia's resources on the cheap. The Budget deficit will blow out enormously. Inflation and interest rates are on the rise. We face a total deficit in the current account of over $3 billion this financial year. Already the Government has borrowed over $4 billion in the last 3 years to. partially compensate. Australia must get a fair return for its vital exports of raw materials. 
Let me turn to some specific exports such as iron ore. Last year Amax Exploration (Australia) Incorporated and the Mount Newman Mining Co. Pty Ltd accepted price cuts of US two cents per ferric unit. The Deputy Prime Minister said that this was not fair and reasonable at the time. Out of the blue he announced his new guidelines. The recent negotiations with the Japanese for iron ore were less than successful. Brazil got the better of the Australian producers with a 9.5 per cent increase. Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd averaged an increase of 7.9 per cent. The Mount Newman increase was 6.8 per cent. The Western Australian iron ore producers, aided by the Premier, are still not acting together. We heed stricter, not looser, supervision in iron ore negotiations. There is already an excess capacity of 16 million tonnes per annum in the Western Australian iron ore industry. Diversification of - sales should mean more sales but we should carefully monitor Court's development and free market mania lest existing producers are disadvantaged in a CourtJapanese axis of free marketing. 
Coal export negotiations can best be described as resembling a mad hatter's tea party, despite the so called parameters. Predictably the Utah Development Company exploited the new system to achieve an acceptable average of $44.60 a tonne in its last contract, but when the New South Wales negotiations started the 1 1 major producers soon were at each others throats. The  Deputy  Prime Minister's lower guideline was $47 a tonne. One South Coast company negotiated $45.50, $ 1.50 lower than the guideline and $3.80 lower than the old price. At that stage the Minister should have conferred with all the other companies rather than allow an advantage to one errant company. In the end the breach was made and all companies accepted less than the Minister's guidelines. As the shadow Minister said, over two years the loss will be $24m on 16 million tonnes of New South Wales underground coal. Two companies alone on the South Coast will lose $4.5m a year so that one of them, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd, can gain an extra tonnage of 400,000. 
Given the attitude of Liberal State governments and the Federal Liberals, New South Wales underground mines will have long term disadvantages in competing with the Queensland open cut mines for coking coal markets. Queensland has surface coal and efficient rail transport sytsems. It is also closer to Japan. The Australian coal industry needs rationalised policies, embracing exploration, development of new mines, surveillance of export pricing and tonnage to ensure not only the best return for exports but also to provide for our own long term needs. I am astounded by predictions that New South Wales might export 1 13 million tonnes of coal by the year 2000, including 50 million tonnes of coking coal. If we export at this rate, in 20 or 25 years there will be serious shortages of coking coal in strategic areas, such as the Port Kembla steel making centre. If Australia goes into coal liquefaction technology huge reserves of cheap coal will be required. To produce 50 per cent of Australian oil requirements by liquefaction, we would need to boost coal production by 60 per cent. That is equivalent to about 8 huge open cut mines the size of the biggest Utah mine in Queensland. If the Queensland Premier has his way, just when Australia needs cheap open cut coal, extraction costs will rocket as we produce from deeper coal seams. The guidelines on iron ore, coal, bauxite, aluminium and gas must continue. But the guidelines are too much for the Prime Minister and the small minded Liberal State Premiers. 
-Did the Minister for National Development tell the recent Australian Petroleum Exploration Association conference in Perth that domestic oil prices to apply from 1 July will be based on the price of light Arabian crude oil set by Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries last December? Would the OPEC increase of 9. 1 per cent which was made on 26 March last mean that an increase of at least $ 1 .20 per barrel is passed on into domestic crude oil prices? Given the resurgence in inflation, is it now untenable to pass on this increase from 1 July? Will the Minister now assure us that this will not occur? 
I view with grave misgivings the aim of the Hospitals Corporation of America to penetrate the private hospital scene in Australia. HCA, through its wholly owned Australian subsidairy the Hospital Corporation of Australia, plans to build a 120-bed private hospital in Coniston in my electorate. HCA has been under investigation by the United States Secutities and Exchange Commission for bribery. These bribery charges should be aired and cleared up before HCA developments in Australia proceed any further. 
I understand that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission charged HCA last year that: 'Certain persons of power and influence in Saudi Arabia, including persons involved in supervising the hospital project,- the King Faisal Specialist Hospital, had to be paid off in the amount of 15 per cent on the contract charges to the Saudi Arabian Government as work on the project progressed.' Questions have already been raised in the Senate on the issuequestions which  Senator Guilfoyle  has not yet answered. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  also remains suspiciously silent. 
The company is the biggest private hospital organisation in the world. It unashamedly aims to make massive profits out of the sick. The man behind its success, Jack Massey, can claim the dubious credit of creating the modern fast food industry with the $500m Kentucky Fried Chicken empire. HCA owns 1 10 hospitals in the United States, Europe and Asia, employing more than 36,000 staff, including 6,300 doctors. In 30 cities in the United States an HCA hospital provides the only hospital care. The company, through its Australian subsidary plans to invest more than $45m this year in private hospital development in Australia- $28m of which will be raised from within Australia, including $18m from three Australian trading banks. 
The move to take over the Australian market comes in the wake of consideration by the United States Government to restrict annual increases to private hospital revenues to 10 per cent. I understand that, according to the Hospital Corporation of Australia Managing Director,  Mr G.  White, the company plans to install 1,500 new hospital beds in Australia within the next five years and to build 30 new hospitals in Australia over the next 10 years. It expects at least a 1 5 per cent return on its investments. I understand that the Victorian Liberal Government has approved the leasing of land to this company in return for the construction of a 200-bed hospital with 50 public beds and a maternity wing. 
How low can we stoop? This American-owned multinational wants to make huge profits out of Australia's sick, while the Commonwealth Government and the health funds foot the bill through medical benefits. I challenge the right of such organisations to exploit the Australian hospital system. Should we allow our hospitals to be run to suit multi-million dollar hospital companies which wish to avoid governmental controls in their own country? This approach to health care could extend into more private control of x-ray clinics, pathology laboratories and other areas of health technology. 
There can be no compromise between multinational takeovers of health care for profit and the best possible health system for the majority of Australians- a system a Labor government would introduce. We would go in the direction opposite to that of multinational private hospital associations. We would develop community health and medical centres to provide a full range of medical services. HCA will be licking burnt lingers if it goes ahead with its scheme to make 'takeaway profits' from the market of the Australian sick. It is this Government's responsibility to ensure that American and other overseas based companies do not exploit our hospital system at the expense of the taxpayer. It is the responsibility of this Government and the Minister for Health to ensure that a company which faced bribery charges in the United States is not allowed to engage in that sort of activity in Australia. We must not allow foreign companies to move in and to take over yet another section of this country because their own country has become too hot for them. 
-There is no doubt that the legislation we are considering proposes to reduce the powers of the national Pipeline Authority. The Authority will require specific authorisation from the Federal Parliament to construct any new pipelines. This legislation also seeks to further restrict the Authority's responsibilities, including the requirement to deliver gas at uniform rates throughout Australia. The Opposition opposes this legislation. It particularly seeks to amend that part of the legislation which requires specific approval from Parliament to construct new pipelines. 
The original legislation, which was introduced by my predecessor, was designed to provide for the first stage of a national pipeline grid to deliver gas and derivatives throughout Australia for the benefit of all Australians and Australian industries. It is now fashionable to refute the feasibility of such a scheme and of the original Connor plan to use a portion of the North West Shelf reserves as a back up for the whole of this proposed system. At some time it may be necessary to resuscitate this concept. In the meantime several other projects ought to be completed. Brisbane is supplied with gas from the Bowen Surat field near Roma in Queensland and these reserves are now very low. There is a need to connect Queensland to the Cooper Basin-Bass Strait reserves via a line to a convenient point on the New South Wales- Cooper Basin pipeline. But the main point is to link New South Wales to the Gippsland Basin fields. 
An example of the capacity of private companies to work against national interest is the decision of the Australian Gas Light Co. to construct a small 6-inch diameter spur line from Young to Wagga off the main South AustraliaSydney line. We should link the Bass Strait fields with the Moomba-Sydney line by the construction between Albury and Young of a large pipeline of at least 12 inches in diameter. With this we would have an embryo national gas grid. Queensland, New South Wales, the Cooper Basin in South Australia and the Gippsland Basin in Victoria would then all be linked by the construction of these two lines; that is, we would then have an option to construct later a line to the North West Shelf if hopes of finding significant further reserves in the Cooper Basin are not realised. Such a line could simply be an extension of the proposed line to Perth or it could traverse the Pilbara, which seems a better concept, although it would leave the Perth line as simply a spur line. 
Any sensible assessment of the feasibility of these concepts relies on an accurate assessment of reserves, and enough is now known to reach some conclusions. Total Australian natural gas reserves, both currently proven and theoretically recoverable, are 878,000 million cubic metres. This includes 202,000 million cubic metres in the Gippsland Basin, 93,000 million cubic metres in the Cooper Basin and 472,000 million cubic metres on the North West Shelf and the Carnarvon Basin in Western Australia. This latter field encompassed the proposed North West Shelf development which includes North Rankin with 244,000 million cubic metres, Angel with 50,000 million cubic metres and Goodwyn with 140,000 million cubic metres. The inescapable conclusion from these figures is that the major New South Wales gas market, which is Sydney, and Adelaide are drawing from the smallest major reserves; that is, those in South Australia. The Cooper Basin provides 34 per cent of South Australian energy requirements. There is no question but that if Rex Connor had known that the North West Shelf line was not to be linked to the east, the present pipeline would have been constructed to the Gippsland Basin and not to South Australia. 
In 1977 South Australian natural gas consumption was 1,900 million cubic metres and 478 million cubic metres only were transported by the Pipeline Authority to the Australian Gas Light Co. for use in New South Wales. At that consumption rate, and given a compound growth rate of 5 per cent, the Cooper Basin reserve would last only 21 years. With a growth rate of 12 per cent it could be exhausted in about 14 years. Given the certain increase in natural gas consumption in New South Wales, a 5 per cent growth estimate is very conservative. With the larger Gippsland Basin reserves being consumed only in Victoria, the Bass Strait reserves will last longer, perhaps some 30 to 40 years, given a 5 per cent growth rate. In Victoria in the 3 years to 1977 production rose by 14.5 per cent, 18 per cent and 16 per cent respectively. So those figures related to the exponential growth rates that I have cited, in my view, can be regarded as conservative. 
There is an urgent need to accelerate gas exploration in the eastern States and it is true that present pricing policy could militate against increased exploration, but this is not to say that there is an absolute open and shut case for gas pricing equivalent to that applying to imported oil. It is little wonder that the South Australian Government is concerned about the ownership and control of the Cooper Basin gas reserves. I think that it should continue with its plan to limit single shareholdings in Santos Ltd, which controls the Cooper Basin reserves, to 15 per cent. It is very worrying to see entrepreneurs such as the Bond Corporation from Western Australia acquiring majority control of vital national resources. If the Bond Corporation lifted its current 37Vi per cent shareholding in Santos, there is no guarantee at all that an appropriate percentage of its profits will be diverted to gas exploration in the Cooper Basin. Perhaps the best result in the protection of the South Australian and New South Wales gas supply could be achieved by the South Australian Government's completely acquiring Santos, as was hinted at in the  Australian Financial Review  earlier this month. 
The North West Shelf project involves exporting each year 53 per cent of production, or 6.5 million tonnes of liquid natural gas, to Japan and perhaps to the United States. Three hundred million cubic feet a day will be transported to Perth, if construction of the line goes ahead, with the biggest single user being the alumina industry. Some 70 million cubic feet a day should go to the Pilbara. There were obviously other options available, such as reserves for the east and the production of liquid fuels such as methanol to reduce Australia's crude oil imports. The argument that immediate larger markets are required to provide substantial early cash flows to repay the $3 billion expenditure has apparently won the day. But there can be no more exports of further discoveries in Western Australia or anywhere else unless substantial new reserves are proved up, particularly in South Australia. 
An Australian government wishing to guarantee long term liquid fuel availability should consider the methanol option. It is amazing how the Federal Government and the States are supplying finance for research into coal liquefaction but are ignoring the proven technology of producing methanol from natural gas. The energy efficiency rating of the latter method is 60 per cent whereas, at best, that for the known methods of coal liquefaction does not exceed 40 per cent. If it were blended with petrol, methanol could supply 25 per cent of our national petrol requirements. The Mobil oil company already claims to have a process of converting methanol to petrol at a cost of not more than 3c a litre. Tiny New Zealand is proceeding with a methanol plant which will utilise 65 per cent of its major Naui natural gas field. 
Oil is a diminishing world asset. The Rockefeller Institute argues that in 30 or 40 years only the most powerful economies will afford what is left of world supplies. There will be no point in the Government's arguing that huge earnings from export of coal, uranium, natural gas or anything else will pay for oil imports in this situation. Nature took 200 million years to create world oil reserves and in perhaps 50 years they will be gone. Money will not purchase a gallon of natural crude oil if it no longer exists. It is incredible that people such as  Sir Charles  Court, who talk about unlimited energy exports and the need for a Western Australian nuclear power industry, will not consider a huge methanol plant in the north-west or even in the east if eventually a pipeline is constructed. 
I return now to clause 10 of the Bill which amends section 13 of the principal Act. Amongst other things it provides that it will be no longer a function of the Authority to ensure uniform delivery prices of gas throughout Australia. Certainly unless the Authority constructs further pipelines and acquires or controls pipelines in South Australia and Victoria, this would not be possible anyway. But it raises the whole question of gas pricing in Australia. Gas pricing is a shambles. The prices range from 3c a therm for gas obtained from the Gas and Fuel Corporation of Victoria to 4.5c a therm in South Australia, 1.7c a therm in Queensland and a proposed price of 1 8c a therm in Western Australia. 
A case can be argued for the price of natural gas being equal to that of other fuels- for example, imported fuel oil- or for export parity pricing. It can be argued, certainly, that cheap gas encourages excessive use of a premium fuel and gives no encouragement to exploration. That is really the same argument which is used in favour of import parity pricing for domestic crude oil. But current crude oil policies are now seen to be inflationary and untenable. We should now refuse to pass on automatically the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries increases into domestic crude oil prices until we reduce Australian prices to an acceptable percentage of world prices- perhaps about 70 per cent. The present oil levy excise shambles could then be replaced with a simple resources tax. If one does not agree with parity pricing for oil at this time it is really hard to argue for parity pricing for gas. Maximum gas prices will not necessarily result in conservation if high levels of exports are allowed. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order!  There is no point of order. The honourable member for St George will resume his seat. 
I rise tonight to discuss an issue that is very important in my electorate. It concerns a matter that has reached the front pages of most newspapers in New South Wales over the last few days, that is, the safety of the Mount Ousley pass which is the main road into Wollongong. Last Friday a runaway coal truck claimed five lives. I believe there have been 13 fatalities on that road in the past two years. This raises the whole problem of the transportation of coal by road haulage in New South Wales, particularly in my electorate. We have a coal loader which at present loads about 6.3 million tonnes of coal a year, of which 4.6 million tonnes per year is currently transported by road. I should like honourable members to consider what that means. It means that there are at least 600 round trips per day to the Port Kembla coal loader on 350 days a year. When one counts the return trips that means 1,200 trips. 
We are now considering the construction of a new coal loader which will export 14 million to 15 million tonnes of coal per year, mostly to Japan. It was proposed that 10.8 million tonnes be transported by rail and about 3.5 million tonnes by road. If that were the case it would mean that coal from mines such as Westcliffe, South Bulli, Avon and Yellow Rock would still be transported by road. I am pleased to note that the Minister for Public Works in New South Wales is saying that he will restrict the road haulage to 2 million tonnes. That will mean that the coal from the major mine at South Bulli will have to be transported by rail, probably by a rail link to the Illawarra line or a conveyor belt. It will also mean that all the coal from Burragorang Valley will have to be transported through the metropolitan rail system. 
The point I make is that this will mean that coal from the Westcliffe mine and any excess coal from the Burragorang Valley will still come down the Mount Ousley road. Certain members of the Liberal Party in the Federal and State spheres have seized upon the recent deplorable accident to make the point that the coal loader should be constructed at Botany Bay. That is not the point. If a new loader is constructed elsewhere in New South Wales, coal will still be hauled by road from Westcliffe and the Burragorang Valley. Some 3.5 million tonnes per year would still come down Mount Ousley. A new coal loader is required. However, in my electorate we also say that the coal trucks must come off the road. That means that a rail line should be built between Douglas Park and Helensburgh, or a conveyor belt system constructed from the Illawarra line to the South Bulli line, thence over the escarpment to Westcliffe. 
We then come to the question of who pays. That is surely the fundamental question. Should it be the taxpayer or should we apply the good old capitalist principle that the buyer or the user pays- in this case, the Japanese? I now want to protest about the fact that, while we were battling to get funds in the electorates of Cunningham, Hughes and Macarthur to get the coal trucks off the road, we saw the spectacle earlier this year of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  being unwilling to force his own parameters on export tonnages. The industry lost some $4.5m from two mines- $9m in total- over two years. That could have provided the tax or levy base to raise funds to construct railway lines or conveyor belts. The Federal Government should have taxed that tonnage and returned the funds to New South Wales to get the coal trucks off the road. 
Many things can be done in the short term regarding Mt Ousley. We could put a weighbridge at the top, which would at least make the trucks stop at the check station. We could make the truck drivers use low gear or drive in one lane. But the fundamental question will still remain: Until we get an adequate tax base on coal and until the Federal Government plays its role and returns money to the States to provide the proper rail transport for a vital export commodity, lives will continue to be lost in my electorate because of the unwelcome coal haulage monsters carrying coal down the escarpment to the Port Kembla coal loader. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I refer to clause 23. I would like some clarification from the Minister on this clause which reads: 
1 ) the regulations may make provision for and in relation to- 
the payment, in such circumstances as are prescribed, to or in respect of an employee being an employee who has been declared to be eligible for redeployment for a reason referred to in sub-paragraph 7(1)(b)(i or (iii) and has been retired under section ( 1 9 ) of a benefit, by way of a lump sum, calculated in such manner as is provided for in the regulations; 
That clause seems to state that it is the Government's prerogative to declare a redundancy payment to all people in those areas. I draw the Minister's attention to this and would like him to listen to my remarks because this does need clarifying. He said in his second reading speech: 
We have decided that staff between the ages of 55 and 60 years who are retired at the initiative of management 'for any other prescribed reason' will, in addition to the existing superannuation benefit, receive a special benefit of two months' salary for each year of service foregone to age 60- i.e.  10 months' salary on retirement at age 55  . . . 
In his second reading speech the Minister concluded by saying that this special severance benefit referred to would be paid to all except those in excess of requirements and those retired because of ill health. The Minister's second reading speech seems to be saying that only those who are retired under section 7 (b) (iii) for any other prescribed reason would be eligible for the benefit. If that is the case, and I would like the Minister to clear this up immediately, there is a lot of misapprehension within the Government's back benches, the media and the unions who think that this severance benefit of two months' pay for each year between age 55 and age 60 would be payable to all those retired under the Bill. The Minister should clarify that because there is a difference between his statement in his second reading speech about what is included in the Bill and the general understanding of the Government, the public and the unions on this matter. To whom will that benefit apply? 
-This Bill is not acceptable to the Opposition. It is drafted to give the appearance of a reasonable and rational approach to unemployment problems caused by improved work methods and technology and the Government's desire to reduce staff levels. But under the facade, there are pernicious and inequitable propositions. No doubt this is why all the major Public Service unions are opposing the Bill in its present form and are demanding that it be redrafted. This also is the position of the Opposition. 
The legislation is an objectionable offspring of an earlier Bill which lapsed in 1977. The original Bill was flawed because it allowed for redeployment and redundancies without appeal and gave enormous scope for possible discrimination against individuals. So-called discussions took place between the Government, the Public Service Board and the unions. But this legislation is inherently objectionable and little better than the earlier Bill. It still excludes unions and employees from decisions affecting them on redeployment and redundancies. There is no proper notice period concerning the redeployment. Furthermore, the so-called appeals system cannot be used firstly without jeopardising the employee's own right to possible redeployment and, secondly, without risking redeployment of another person in the same work area. Above all, I object to the provision for compulsory redundancies and the reduction of pension benefits involved. There is no requirement for departments to assume responsibility for training the younger people who may be made redundant from the Public Service. Employers throughout the nation are complaining that the national pool of skilled tradesmen is declining at the rate of 10,000 a year; yet there are no retraining provisions in this legislation. 
Clause 7 sets the guidelines for redeployment. It states that each department and Commonwealth authority must make efficient and economical use of the persons whom they employ. That is a vague definition by any standards. Who makes the determination? What are the criteria? The answer perhaps lies in Clause 9 which states that the permanent head of the department is responsible for the efficient and economical use of persons in his department. Thus the top level bureaucrats have control over future staff levels, the use of new technology, computerisation and so on. As the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association says, 'No review of, or appeal from, their assessment is provided for'. The assessments need not be upon parliamentary scrutiny. They may take account of an unstated government policy, for example, the policy to begin wholesale contracting out of functions previously carried out by departments or authorities. 
As outlined in clause 8, the Public Service Board is to provide the link between the redeployment provisions of clause 7 and the legislative responsibility of department heads, as set out in clause 9. Under these provisions, the Public Service Board is given the authority to set out the administrative procedures to be followed by departments in implementing redeployment and redundancy provisions. It will be the Public Service Board that specifies the criteria which will determine whether employees' services cannot be reasonably used. The Public Service Board will be the authority which orchestrates efficiency procedures. 
I share the objections of the Public Service unions to clause 7 (b) (iti) which provides that a person may be redeployed or made redundant, since clause 19 would also then apply, 'for any other prescribed reason'. An assurance that this provision would be invoked only in consultation with the unions and for reasons such as loss of a driver's licence and so on cannot be accepted. The provision must be removed. It is too vague. It is too dangerous. The whole Bill is too vague. Surely we are entitled to the use of explicit English language when employment and future careers of workers are at stake. 
I make this one proviso: I cannot accept any view from the Public Service unions which might enshrine permanent heads or First Division public servants as being above or superior to elected government. There is certainly a necessity to redeploy people who are either working to frustrate government policy or who are deliberately tendering incorrect advice because their interpretation of objectives does not coincide with government policy. An elected government is entitled to expect that its top public servants will cooperate in implementing policies to which it is committed. A future Labor government is entitled to have a head of, say, Treasury or Trade and Resources who will accept Labor views. If we wanted to implement, for example, a capital gains tax or a resources tax or to set up a future Australian national oil corporation, we would expect the same Public Service to co-operate, just as the present head of Treasury co-operates with this Government's attacks on workers' wages and its monetarist line. Let there be no argument about the obvious right of an elected government to permanent heads who will administer and not sabotage government aims. 
Clause 10 requires that an employee shall be served notice of" redeployment, but it does not stipulate the length of notice. I refer the Minister to similar legislation in the United States which provides between 30 and 90 days notice to employees who are redeployable. Australian public servants should be given similar time to consider their attitude, particularly with regard to the repressive appeals section. There are appeals of sorts allowed to individuals, but there is no appeal questioning the wisdom of the decision to redeploy or to retrench workers from a department. The recent confrontation with and lack of foresight shown by the management of the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Australian Postal Commission in the implementation of new technology and the draconian treatment of staff may be an example of future events in the Public Service. For instance, the manner in which Australia Post has refused to pay its staff for any work performed after staff have refused to undertake a minor duty is disgraceful and possibly illegal. 
The tragedy is that in industrial relations public departments ought to act as models to the work force and the rest of the nation. Unfortunately, their track record is so bad- under this Government at least- that no one can blame public servants for being uncertain of the intentions of top level Public Service bureaucrats. 
Whilst the instigation of an appeal system is to be applauded, the proposed legislation renders it virtually unusable. It prevents non-options. Let me make a closer examination. Under clause IS, an appeal against a redeployment declaration can result in, firstly, a redeployment declaration being revoked, confirmed or revoked at the expense of another person's job. In clause 14, the mechanism supposedly established to protect an employee against unfair redeployment works against the appellant to the extent that it could lead to the sack. The clause provides that the Public Service Board will issue certificates for redeployment only if the employee waives the right of appeal, if the appeal is heard and the declaration upheld, or if the appeal is withdrawn. This means, of course, that while an appeal is under way vacancies elsewhere could be filled. The individual faces retrenchment if the appeal' is unsuccessful because the Public Service Board has the right to retire someone if there are no vacancies elsewhere. 
Under such conditions who would risk an appeal and relinquish his place on the redeployment list? As the Australian Clerical Officers Association and the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations have pointed out, there is a positive disincentive not to appeal. Similarly, who would want to appeal when it may be at the cost of a colleague's job? The situation is baldly stated in clause IS (6). This arises from clause 15(5) which provides that if an employee is identified as being in an over-supplied area his or her colleagues could become party to the appeal. As a consequence of this, the colleagues could become declared employees with no right of appeal. The Minister stated that this is desirable to prevent an interminable number of appeals. There is no provision to appeal against the original decision that there is an excess of staff. 
The whole proposal is an iniquitous piece of work. The day after the Minister made his second reading speech a report in the  Canberra Times  stated: 
When is a right to appeal not a right to appeal? Perhaps when its success leads automatically to a work mate 's conviction with no right of appeal . . . anyone 'declared ' for redeployment is granted a titular right of appeal that in fact is a farce. In the event of any appeal against redeployment on grounds of excess numbers being successful, the appellate tribunal is empowered to itself 'declare' some other person from the same work area. In other words, it is impossible to appeal without brandishing a sword of Damocles over the heads of one's work mates. 
That is the position. This Bill must be withdrawn and redrafted to give decent procedures with regard to appeals against redundancies and redeployment in the Public Service. Has there ever been such a mechanism designed to ensure its inoperation? It is a farce with sinister overtones in the best 1984 tradition. If an employee appeals, he risks cutting his own throat or those of his colleagues. 
I turn to some of the arguments put forward by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown).  Unfortunately, he would have the House believe as he would have many other people in the nation believe that the public servants of Australia enjoy working conditions and superannuation benefits far and above those which other members of the work force enjoy. Although the figures I have are for 1977, 1 am sure that they will make the point succinctly. In 1977, 27 people in the First Division of the Public Service earned between $39,474 and $44,65 1 per annum. 
-That is pretty good-for 27 people. In the Second Division, 1,247 people earned between $25,241 and $37,064 per annum. The vast majority of public servants are employed in the Third and Fourth Divisions. In those divisions, 1 10,000 people earned between $7,309 and $21,578. The majority earn under $12,000 a year. Only 6,206 earned over$14,748. That was the position in the Public Service in 1977. Of course, public servants have received only indexation increases since then. I agree that the superannuation benefits are generous. So they ought to be. An employee receives 50 per cent of his salary on retirement plus his contributions with interest. Rather than attack the men and women who enjoy those benefits in the Australian Public Service, honourable members opposite ought to aim for a national superannuation scheme in the future which would allow ordinary men and women to retire on at least 50 per cent of their earnings or the national average wage. I see nothing wrong in that. The increased consumer power created would probably wipe out most of the unemployment prevalent in today's society. I will not cop under any circumstances any attacks on the conditions of workers in the Public Service. 
I now refer to clause 19 which deals with the euphemism which the Government calls management initiated retirement and which I call the sack or redundancy. Let us see what was the attitude of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in 1977. 1 have a copy of a letter that he wrote to  Mr Gradwell  who was then Federal Secretary of the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations. In answer to a question to the Prime Minister regarding his attitude towards retrenchment in the Public Service, the Prime Minister said: 
It has been our express policy to avoid retrenchments and this will continue . . . Overall staffing levels will be determined in the light of need. Although there may be both increases and decreases in particular areas of administration as work loads vary, the initial process of streamlining has now been substantially completed and in general there will be stability in the service. 
Nothing could be more calculated to destroy stability in the Public Service than this legislation. So much for the Prime Minister's promises! 
I now refer to the redundancy provisions which the honourable member for Diamond Valley was so keen to laud. Members between the age of 55 and 60 years are supposed to get a special benefit of two months' pay for every year before the age of 60 years that they are retired. That lump sum can be commuted to a 7.7 per cent increase in pension. The question is: Will they all be eligible? I see that the honourable member for Diamond Valley is not in the chamber. I wish that he were. In his second reading speech, the Minister said: 
Finally it enables the payment of a special benefit to those who are retired between the ages of SS and 60 for reasons other than excess to requirements or ill health. 
The vast majority of people between the age of 55 and 60 who are retired because they are excess to requirements will not be eligible for the golden handshake. Only those employees who are put out for any other prescribed reason under clause 7 (1) (b) (iii) would be eligible for the payment. That simply means that the competent people will not get a golden handshake. It will be those employees who are inefficient and who are put out for any other prescribed reason who will get the golden handshake. That is the most stupid piece of redundancy legislation that I have ever heard of in all my experience in industrial affairs. Obviously, the Government had better do something about that aspect. It should talk with the unions to see whether it can iron out the problems. As the legislation stands at the moment, it certainly does not provide a golden handshake, despite what the honourable member for Diamond Valley has said. 
Let us look at how the legislation compares with severance pay arrangements that have been negotiated in the private sector of the community and which Government members wish to condemn. I can personally vouch for the fact that several years ago, members of the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia who were between the ages of 60 and 65 were paid out of the industry with a payment of 70 per cent of the wages they would have earned if they had stayed in the industry until they reached 65 years of age. In other cases the redundancy arrangement equalled the payment of salary on three weeks notice plus three weeks salary for every year of service which meant that a person with 30 years service would have received a payment equal to 93 weeks salary. I ask honourable members to compare that arrangement with the arrangement whereby people will be put out of the Public Service under this legislation. A public servant with 35 years service would get only 42 or 43 weeks pay even if he is eligible for the payment. In order to be eligible for it, he would have to be retired under clause 7 ( 1 ) (b) (iii). 
Now let me deal with the position of those people under 55 years and in respect of whom there are no special redundancy incentives at all- none whatsoever. It is true that if employees were in excess of staff requirements and were permanent employees, they could be retrenched under determination 509 and be eligible to receive 6 months notice if they have less than 20 years service or 12 months notice if they have over 20 years service. If they were lucky enough to be permanent employees they would be eligible for a reduced payment from the superannuation funds- I must stress that many people in the semi-skilled occupations in the Public Service are not eligible. Regarding those eligible, a person 45 years of age with 25 years service could be put out with a magnificent pension equal to 18 per cent of his salary. Similarly a person aged 40 years with 25 years working life in front of him and 20 years service would get a pension equal to 9 per cent of his salary. A person aged 36 with 20 years service- admittedly such a person would have had to join the Service at a very young age, but that is possible- would go out on a pension equal to 1.8 per cent of his salary. That is magnificent! They would be fat cats for certain. There is no doubt that in the eyes of Government members they would be fat cats. What will they do when they receive retrenchment notices in the present situation when 450,000 people are unemployed? A prime point I make is that many employees under 55 years would be ineligible for benefits under either of those two provisionsdetermination 509 or the reduced pension. What will be the position of the 300 or so people in Medibank in New South Wales last week whom I understand received their retrenchment notices? How many of those people will get the reduced pensions about which the Minister speaks? How many of them will get the benefits which apply to retirement under determination 509? I ask the Minister to answer that question. 
I conclude my remarks on this iniquitous Bill by echoing the words of the shadow Minister, the honourable member for Port Adelaide, in demanding that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted so that the real needs of the men and women in the Commonwealth Public Service can be taken into account. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether on 27 November 1975 he stated: 
More investment will lead to jobs, both will lead to more revenue. That will be a significant fact in reducing the deficit. 
When will that strategy be implemented? 
-The Government's industrial relations policy depends upon bludgeoning unions and workers into submission rather than relying upon compromise and the establishment of justice in the industrial area. I remember well the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation. It was put through the Parliament on my first day in this House in October 1977. This obnoxious legislation gives power to the Industrial Relations Bureau to summon trade unions and individual union members before the industrial division of the Federal Court of Australia. It gives that court power to penalise unions, employees and employers for a number of reasons. For instance, it can take action against strike breakers. It imposes the necessity for secret ballots at the say so of the Industrial Relations Bureau. It provides, in section 15, power to suspend members of trade unions, officials of trade unions, to deregister trade unions and to freeze the funds of trade unions. If court orders are not complied with it is perfectly possible for section 15 ( 1 1) to be used. Included in that section is the following: 
Penalty: $400 or imprisonment for 6 months or both or, in the case of an offence referred to in sub-section (12), $400 for each day during which the offence is to be deemed to continue or imprisonment for 6 months or both. ' 
That is what this Act is all about, that is what the Government's Industrial Relations Policy is all about and that is what section 45D of the Trade Practices. Act is all about. This obnoxious trade practices legislation, which was implemented in 1977 and tidied up in 1978, provides for heavy penalties against trade unions and trade unionists who impose so-called secondary boycotts. Workers such as those at Hay Point in Queensland who were struggling to obtain jobs on ships carrying Australian coal to Japan, should have been applauded in this recessionary situation for their attempts to obtain jobs rather than threatened with harrassment under section 45D under the Trade Practices Act. 
The basic fact about this Act is that it has been unsuccessful. No dispute ever has been settled by this Government's industrial relations policy. In addition to that, the Government has lost its first major case- the case instigated by the IRB on behalf of  Mr Frank  Kane against the Melbourne City Council under section 5 ( 1 ) (aa) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It would be interesting to find out whether  Mr Kane  had any official connection with the Liberal Party because he has certainly had a connection with the Liberal candidate for Coburg in the last Victorian State elections, a  Mr Nick  Kosenko, who, I understand, accompanied  Mr Kane  at all the Federal Court hearings against both the MCC and the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union. It would be interesting to know whether he attended these hearings in an official capacity as an officer in  Mr Street's  Department of Industrial Relations. That is what is being said around the unions in Melbourne. Perhaps we should get an answer to that question from the Minister. The Liberal candidate for Coburg had a very close association with this  Mr Kane.  It is very suspicious indeed. The Government, through the IRB, lost its case. I certainly do not object to employers' actions in dismissing strike breakers, but the decision surely illustrates how stupidly ineffective and badly drafted this Act is at present. The position now seems to be, as the Australian Financial Review puts it, that: 
Unless the legislation is changed, it will leave only unions open to prosecution under the sections of the legislation allegedly aimed at protecting the rights of individuals against actions by unions and employers. 
What is the Government going to do about this anamolous legislation. While the Government depends on this sort of obnoxious Industrial Relations Bureau approach, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is still suggesting overseas that our track record in industrial relations is not so bad after all. The Prime Minister was asked this question on 12 February this year by the United States magazine  Business Week: 
Do you expect that your economic policies will stir labour troubles? Australian unions have a reputation for being militant and strike prone . . . 
The Prime Minister answered: 
That's because of the rugged nature of Australians. In actual fact, our time lost through strikes is less than in the US ... I think the general situation in Australia is about on a par with this country - 
-That statement was made to  Business Week,  an influential magazine in the United States, on 12 February this year, apparently in the United States. The Prime Minister then added that the Australian record on strikes was much better than that of the United Kingdom, yet he still attacks unions, individual union members and wage and salary earners generally. 
He blames their wage increases for inflation despite the fact that the biggest inflationary factor in the last two years has been the Government's inflationary import parity crude oil policy. The Government opposes any flow-on of the 4 per cent rise in the consumer price index at the current national wage case and then whinges when unions have the audacity to act outside the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to maintain their living standards. The Government has broken promises regarding the tax surcharge and health insurance and has imposed an extra $10.50 a week at least on workers. Yet the Government expects the workers to cop it. The Government expects the workers to abide by its present industrial relations policies. 
Just look at the Government's actions with regard to two major cases in the Public Service. I refer briefly in passing to the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill 1979 over which there is industrial trouble in the Australian Capital Territory today. No wonder because this Bill makes it possible for workers between 55 and 60 years of age to be put out of the Public Service on a reduced pension, only 36 per cent of their current salary at age 55, under Determination 509 of the Public Service Act. There is nothing extra for them. Similarly, there is no incentive for people under 55 who are made redundant. For instance, a person put out at 40 years of age would only receive 9 per cent of current salary on retirement in addition to the notice provided under Determination 509. 
Look at the situation with regard to employees in Australia Post where they are placed off pay after refusing one simple task only, although they may work the rest of the day or the rest of the week. I have here a particular case, the pay slip of a worker in Australia Post who only took home $8.49 for the fortnight after working the full 80 hours. How does the Government expect that to stand up as an equitable industrial relations policy? This is the reason why workers and trade unions are not content to sit back and accept what this Government hands out to them. Let me refer to the position of the members of the Federated Ironworkers Association in my electorate, the great steel electorate of Cunningham. Tradesmen's assistants still receive only $146.10 through the three components of their wage for a 40-hour week. At the same time, the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd has announced a profit of $ 161m for the last financial year. 
It is understandable that there is widespread industrial disputation. This Government has no wages policy whatsoever. There ought to be a policy of equity for the workers of Australia. That is one of the things for which the Australian Labor Party stands. How can we tolerate a situation in which steel workers, the backbone of the country, receive $ 146 a week whilst the company that employs them makes $16 lm in profit for a year. We advocate the fair wages policy of full indexation at least up to the level of the national average wage. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It has been obvious for some months that the Government's budgetary deficit would be much greater than the $2, 800m announced in the last Budget. Last Thursday night the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said that he expected it to increase by some $2 15m. I note that there are suggestions abroad that this figure might be somewhat understated and that, in fact, the true Budget deficit for 1978-79 might increase by at least 25 per cent and might blow out to something like $3.3 billion. We will have to wait to see whether that is true. Similarly, the Government has been having great problems with its balance of payments situation. In 1977-78 we saw a deficit in net invisibles of $3,32 lm wipe out a trade surplus of $895m to leave the current account in deficit some $2,425m. This year the situation is even worse. By the end of the March quarter the current account was $2, 443m in deficit, and $590m of that was accounted for in the March quarter alone. It is perfectly obvious that this financial year we face a deficit in the current account of $3,000m. 
It is no wonder that since the Government took office in 1975 it has borrowed $4,000m from overseas. The chickens will not come home to roost until 1983-84. That is when the repayments will peak. Australia will face repayments of its overseas loans of $600m a year. Therefore, we are looking at an extremely adverse situation with regard to the continuing deficit in the balance of payments and the current account. So far in the first three quarters of this year alone the freight cost on imports has totalled $932m. That is the most significant component of the invisibles which have such a devastating effect on the current account. It is very pertinent to note that less than 3 per cent of these imports are carried in Australian ships. Yet in the statement of the Treasurer of the whole Government policy no attempt whatsoever is made to expand Australian shipping tonnage or the operations of the Australian National Line in our overseas trade. 
If the Government did something about that, perhaps it would be able to do something about the haemorrhage in the balance of payments and the current account. Never mind talking about whether Australian unionists should be on the ships. Of course they should be. That is where some of the jobs should come from to give to the people who are unemployed today. It is obvious that the Government has been in very deep economic trouble for some time. The deficit has been increasing. The balance of payments has been blowing out. Inflation is moving into double figures one again and the money supply has increased by about 5 per cent more than the rate of increase predicted in the last Budget. The Government was faced with the question of what to do about it. Was it able to remove the tax surcharge of 1 .5c in the dollar by 30 June? What about its promise to retain the 40 per cent health subsidy and implement full tax indexation? So it was that last Thursday we got our answer to these questions in the horror package. The tax surcharge of 1.5c in the dollar became 2.6c in the dollar. The 40 per cent health subsidy was removed altogether. The Government finally reneged on its promise to implement full tax indexation. What will it do in the Budget? The Treasurer said: 
I must emphasise that there is no prospect of the Government's being able to announce in the Budget both the removal in full of the surcharge and implementation of full indexation for the 1 979-80 income year. 
What will he do? Will he retain the tax surcharge of 2.6c in the dollar? That must be a very attractive proposition to him because it would raise $ 1,320m. Perhaps he might do that. Perhaps he might also implement the promise of full tax indexation as a sweetener. That would cost only $500m. If he took both those measures he would finish $820m ahead. If he did that, the retention of the surcharge would represent just one more broken promise. It could be added to the long list of broken promises- the promise to provide jobs for all who want to work, the promise to maintain Medibank, the promise to implement full tax indexation, the promise to end the tax rip-off, the promise to reduce interest rates, and the promise to give the pensioners half-yearly indexation. AH those promises have been dishonoured. 
Let me turn briefly to the health situation, and I shall discuss this at greater length when the two relevant Bills are debated in the House. The abolition of the 40 per cent general health subsidy to those people who do not contribute to a health insurance fund will save the Government $2 10m. However, it will also be responsible for an increase in the contribution rate for medical benefit payments of $2.50 per week. The daily charge for intermediate hospital beds has gone up by $10 from $40 to $50 and the charge for private beds has gone up from $50 to $75 a day. This will result in an increase of $1.30 per week in hospital insurance, or an increase of $4 a week in health insurance contributions. Health insurance will cost $600m to $700m a year- a remarkable $11.50 to $13.50 a week. The result will be that some contributors and their families will opt out. Those who do so will have no universal system of health insurance. The poorer families will be faced with a cost of $9 for a visit to a general practitioner. They will defer seeking attention when it is required with disastrous results. 
All this shocking intervention in the field of health insurance came after the Treasurer announced in the last Budget the abolition of federal grants on a dollar for dollar basis with the States for capital costs for new hospitals. The Treasurer also foreshadowed last Thursday night further cuts of $200m in the Commonwealth-States cost sharing agreement for recurrent expenditure. Where will all these cuts in the health system end? When will there be an end to the rising cost of health insurance that has been foisted on the people of Australia by this Government? The cuts will leave a gap in the public health system and the Government will seek to rely on private hospital corporations to fill the gap. I refer to the Hospital Corporation of America, which is being encouraged by the present Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  The Corporation was making 16 per cent profit from private hospitalisation in the United States of America and is seeking to diversify internationally because the Government of the United States is thinking of placing a 10 per cent limit on profits from private hospitalisation. Of course the Corporation wants to diversify into countries such as Australia and this Government is helping it to do so. It wants to jack up its profits again to 16 per cent and 20 per cent. My reaction is that if the Hospital Corporation of America wants to build private health structures in Australia it should do so in the areas of need. The areas of need are not private hospitals. They are geriatric hospitals and nursing homes. However, the Corporation will not go into that area when it can get more than $500 a week from the medical benefits and hospital funds and an average of only $140 a week from the Commonwealth Government and the patients' pensions in the nursing homes. 
That is what we have seen. What is to come? What will happen at the next Premiers' Conference? Will there be further cuts in the general purpose and specific purpose grants to the States? Perhaps we will see further attacks on the unemployed. When will we get the result of the famous work test review announced by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)?  Will he wait until the Parliament goes into recess before he brings down the result? Will the result of that review be that young unemployed people between 16 and 18 years of age will be sent out from Sydney and Melbourne by the Minister to pick fruit at Shepparton or around Mildura? What will be the reaction of the parents of those 16-year-olds and 18-year-olds? Maybe we will find out at the next election. 
There are in this horror mini-package two measures which we of the Opposition do not oppose but which I find hard to applaud. The first one is the retention of the coal export levy of $3.50 a tonne. There certainly is a very strong case for the retention of the coal export levy but a levy on a flat tonnage basis works against the marginal underground mines and in favour of the more cheaply operated open cut mines. A far more equitable proposition is the implementation of Labor's policy of a resources tax on profits earned from the export of non-renewable resources. Another point- I ask the Treasurer to listen to this point very carefully- is that at least $2 a tonne of that $3.50 a tonne coal export levy ought to be returned to the States, particularly New South Wales, to cover the capital costs of the provision of a proper transport infrastructure. The coal mines of New South Wales suffer inbuilt deficiencies compared with those in Queensland. The mines of the Utah Corporation in Queensland have very good rail transport facilities to the port at Hay Point, but in New South Wales the mines have to depend on road haulage because no adequate rail transport facilities are provided. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that the present import parity pricing for domestically produced crude oil: 
1 ) unnecessarily ties the Government to decisions made by OPEC nations over which the Government has no control; 
is inflationary and has resulted in the doubling of domestic fuel prices since December 1 975; 
has had a deleterious effect on employment and the GNP; and, 
will lead to even further inflation and unemployment if persevered with. 
-This Bill implements the Government's decision to increase the $3 per barrel crude oil levy by the amount which the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries price increases have injected into domestic crude oil prices since 3 1 December last year. We do not object to the extra $ 166m accruing to federal revenue, but we do object to this Government's folly in continuing blindly to pass on to the Australian economy the inflationary OPEC price rises, rises over which the Government has no control whatsoever. These problems commenced in the 1977 Budget with the announcement that domestic prices for old oil would be phased Up to import parity prices via the formula of 10 per cent in 1977-78, 20 per cent in 1978-79, 35 per cent in 1979-80, 50 per cent in 1980-81, and 100 per cent as soon as possible thereafter. So these percentages of domestic production of old oil have been returned to producers at import parity prices. 
Do honourable members recall the reasons given at the time? It was said that increased prices would conserve oil reserves by taxing consumption and boosting exploration. This did not occur to any worthwhile degree. The rate of increase in petrol consumption is down very slightly by 2.3 per cent, but at what price to the economy? The latest Petroleum Exploration Newsletter informs us that over the next six years the Esso-BHP consortium intends to outlay a mere $147m for exploration in the Exmouth Gulf area of Western Australia, which is our most promising exploration area. I have here a table put out by the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association in the  PEX  newsletter, and I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905314_86_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905314_87_4.jpg"></graphic>

Honourable members will note that 21 companies, headed by Esso Australia Ltd, expect to spend $500m off Western Australia over six years. That works out at only $83m a year, which is not very much. Considering the deep water and the high costs- some $10m per well- not much drilling will be done at that rate. The 1 978 Budget contained the biggest shock of all. We moved to full import parity, with the extra revenue above the 1977 formula accruing to the Treasury. No attempt was made to justify the measure as being conservationist. It was simply a way to obtain extra revenue to solve the Government's deficit problems. No doubt the Government's policy has been lucrative for federal revenues and oil producing companies but it has been very tough on motorists and Australian industry. The Government will receive $ 1 ,240m this financial year. Some $780m will come from the excise duty and $460m from the levy. 
Esso-BHP windfall profits will be about $300m this year. They would have been $400m next year and at least $550m in 1980-81 under the 1978 Budget arrangements. With the latest levy increase, the price per barrel received by producers will fall to the December 1978 price and will remain at that level. However, the OPEC increases will be passed on to the consumer and will flow directly into government revenue. So the price of old oil to the consumer will continue to rise as a result of the OPEC increases. The rip-off to government and, to a lesser extent, the oil companies will continue in 

<graphic href="114131197905314_87_4.jpg"></graphic>

line with the 1977 increasing percentage arrangements. I expect that in 1979-80 Esso-BHP will still gain $400m in windfall profits and another $500m in 1980-81. So much for the revenue that is being returned to government and to the oil companies. 
The Government must consider the effects on the consumer and on the economy. Petrol prices have doubled since December 1975, when this Government took office. The Australian people ought to note that. Average retail prices in Melbourne have risen from 15c per litre to 23c per litre since the August 1977 Budget. That is a rise of 36c a gallon. Last year OPEC decided to increase prices by 14 per cent. The flow-on was an 8.6 per cent increase in the price of local crude oil on 1 January this year. There was to be a further 5.3 per cent increase on 1 July this year, but OPEC subsequently increased that rate to 9. 1 per cent and brought the date forward to April. When will the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  announce the 9.1 per cent flow-on into Australian prices? Is it inherent in the estimate of $ 1 66m extra revenue from the increased levy? If the 9. 1 per cent flows through it will result in at least a further 5c a gallon increase in petrol prices, a 0.4 per cent increase in the September consumer price index figures, a 0.2 per cent contraction in aggregate employment in Australia, a contraction in the gross national product of 0.25 per cent, and a contraction to total exports of at least one per cent. That 

<graphic href="114131197905314_87_4.jpg"></graphic>

will be the effect of passing on the 9 per cent increase. 
Has the Minister seen reports of a further likely 10 per cent rise in OPEC prices before 1 July? Will the Minister pass on that increase, together with the 9. 1 per cent, on 1 July? If he does we will face a petrol price rise in July of at least 12c a gallon, some one per cent increase in the CPI for the September quarter, and a corresponding increase in unemployment of 0.4 per cent, or 24,000 jobs. This will occur as a result of just blindly passing on the OPEC price increases. We cannot afford this needless inflationary nonsense. It is not wage increases that are the major inflationary factor in the Australian economy today; it is the unprecedented rise in petrol, diesel and fuel oil prices under this misguided, erratic and inflationary Government. What will the Government do with the revenue? The States are complaining, and no wonder. Last year, including $900m more in petrol taxes, the Federal Government received a massive $2, 150m from petrol and oil duties. Of this only $508m was returned to the States for road programs; only $164m went to New South Wales, the major State. 
Let us look at some basic facts about the national and world oil situation. Let me quote an article in the  Australian Mining Review  entitled Energy Balance to the Year 2000', written by Frank K. Rickwood, the Managing Director of BP Exploration Company Ltd. The article states: 
By the year 2000 about50 per cent of production will have to come from future discoveries if production of say 25 billion barrels . . . per day is to be sustained. Reserves to production ratio was 100:1 in 1950; is at present about 22: 1 and by the year 2000 will have reached 10: 1. By 1985 the world will be using 25 billion barrets of oil per year peaking out at about 28 billion barrels per year by 1991 and gradually declining. The days of cheap energy from oil or indeed any source are over. 
Nobody disputes that oil will become scarcer and dearer as physical reserves dry up and nations in the Middle East cut production to conserve their main source of revenue. I remember one of the new oil technocrats in the Middle East in 1974 saying to me: 'Who will want to live in Kuwait or Saudi Arabia after the oil has gone?' Those countries will make sure that they have an infrastructure that will survive after the depletion of the oil. We can expect continuing price rises from OPEC. There is no doubt about that. Within 30 or 40 years only the richest and most powerful economies will be able to afford to buy the oil which is left. 
Debate interrupted. 
I was making the point that the oil producing nations in the Middle East will serve their own best interests and not our best interests by cutting back oil production gradually and trying to conserve their major source of income. Anyone who disbelieves that should read the article in today's  Australian  which in turn has been taken from  The Economist.  It refers to Saudi Arabia's new oil policy and states: 
Recoverable reserves for the four big fields that provide 87 per cent of Saudi Arabia's present capacity were officially downgraded, greatly reducing the length of time for which higher production levels could be sustained. 
Conservation suddenly seemed much more attractive, lt also became clear that the expansion project would be too expensive to be met out of the profit margin allowed to Aramco, about to become State-owned. 
The Saudis have no real desire to instal new oil field equipment, much of which might only be used for a few years, to meet oil production targets which would simply speed the depletion of the reservoirs. And- perhaps most decisivelythe Saudis were changing their minds about their desired role in the world oil scene. 
Consider our own reserves of two billion barrels. They are meagre indeed. The 70 per cent selfsufficiency level will fall to 45 per cent in the 1980s, unless we find further resources. The major explorer, Esso, estimates that there is about an 80 per cent chance of finding reserves equal to our current reserves; about an even money chance of finding amounts equal to those previously discovered; and only a 20 per cent chance of finding five billion barrels. It is estimated that by 1990 we will need almost one billion barrels a year. So even if the five to one chance comes off, we will still be in trouble by 1990. Obviously, there is a real need to step up oil exploration, conserve oil and start to develop alternative liquid fuels. But that does not necessarily mean full import parity prices to fuel inflation in a recessionary situation. It does not mean handing over $2.5 billion to $3 billion to EssoBHP and seeing only $ 1 50m returned to Western Australian oil exploration. 
Let me outline an alternative pricing policy. Simply stop passing on future OPEC rises until the price of domestic crude oil falls to an acceptable percentage of the OPEC price that we wish to sustain. We could abolish the levy, the excise duty and the 1977-78 Budget policy with it. We should then impose a resource tax or a petroleum rent tax on the after-company tax profits of the oil companies at an appropriate threshold level of 10 per cent to 12 per cent of profits to investment, with all further revenues accruing to the Federal Government. Another method now that windfall company returns are pegged in this legislation would be to refrain from passing on OPEC increases until the desired percentage domestic price level is reached. It might be 70 per cent, 75 per cent or 80 per cent. Flexibility is the main point. We could leave the 1977-78 Budget policy in operation and impose a resource rent tax on after-company tax profits accumulating under this system and eventually let the resource rent tax replace the levy. 
I know that these matters are too complicated for honourable members opposite, who are interjecting, but if they listened they might get some ideas. If they care to read  Hansard  tomorrow they might learn something. If the country continues to follow the policy espoused by the Government, I know where it will finish. I invite the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  who is one of those seeking to interject, to follow me in this debate and make his points if he so wishes. 
Such a resource rent tax would favour the more marginal wells and producers. I quote from an article published in the  Australian Financial Review: 
The Government's latest measures are likely to lead to greater support from the oil industry for a resources or petroleum rent tax to ensure minimum returns. As it stands, marginal Australian oil fields have been given the same pricing terms as the more profitable Bass Strait fields. 
The Minister for Trade and Resources does not have anything to say about that. Having created an acceptable pricing policy, I am quite certain that eventually we will be forced to establish a national oil corporation, similar to the British national oil corporation, perhaps partially funded by the resource rent tax on existing producers and with powers to raise its own further finance to participate in exploration, development of new wells and the marketing of its own oil. Such a corporation exists now, in case honourable members have not heard, in places such as Britain, Norway, all of the Middle East nations, Japan and Indonesia. Such a corporation could also be free to participate with existing oil companies in exploration and development projects. In this way the Federal government could stimulate and control oil exploration without the craven approach of the present Government. It is content to hand out huge sums to multinational oil companies and then plead, beg and implore them to invest a small percentage of their windfall profits made from the Australian economy by Government decision in their puny efforts at oil exploration. The sobering thought is the message of the multinational company, Esso: 'The chances are we just won't find any more major oil fields, so the alternatives become all the more important'. 
I suggest that one alternative for an Australian energy policy would be a proper rationalisation of coal production and export because of the possible need for huge tonnages of cheap coal for liquefaction to oil in 20 or 30 years time. A second alternative would be the setting up of an adequate production and distribution chain for liquid petroleum gas. A third alternative would be to get seriously into the production of methanol from natural gas. I suggest that we should consider the construction of a methanol plant in Western Australia as a viable alternative to continuing proposed exports of natural gas. Oil imports are now costing the Australian economy something like $1 billion a year. In five years the cost will probably be $2 billion. Methanol can be mixed with petrol to a 20 per cent blend so it is theoretically possible to cover up to 20 per cent of our requirements by the production of methanol as long as we have gas as a feedstock. It could be that some $500m could be saved in the deficit of the current account and the balance of payments within five years by the production of methanol. 
I urge the Government to be very careful about the concept that we can get money to pay for more and more oil imports at higher and higher prices by exporting more and more coal and gas. I am grateful to the  Australian Financial Review  for publishing a cartoon that makes that point. It shows a Middle East oil Minister talking to President Carter. He is saying: We've just solved the oil crisis! You'll run out of money before we run out of oil.' One notes that the Minister is showing some interest in the production of methanol from natural gas. He should admit that this would involve a complete ban on further natural gas exports over and above those envisaged for the current North West Shelf project, so that we will retain adequate reserves for methanol production. Instead of moronically passing on price increases by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries and adopting a Micawberish attitude of waiting for something to turn up, the Government should immediately stop the inflationary nonsense of automatically passing on OPEC decisions which have been taken in the interest of other nations. 
I too applaud this measure. Nevertheless, I think it is somewhat belated and the domiciliary care benefit ought to have been increased. It is simply a matter of economics is it not? For instance, the domiciliary care benefit is $2 a day or $14 a week. The benefit is payable on visits by a community nurse. Assuming that the wages and the ancilliary costs associated with the employment of a community nurse are about $300 a week and the nurse looks after 10 patients a week, it costs $440 to keep people in their own homes. If they are in a nursing home and attracting a benefit of $13.65 a day or $95.55 a week, the total cost for 10 people is $950. Obviously it is more economic to keep people at home than it is to pay the recurrent and capital expenditure associated with nursing homes. I can only suggest to the Government that it should increase this benefit from $2 a day to at least $5 a day. It would still come out a mile in front. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development who will recall the Treasurer's statement to this House only 10 days ago that the Government had decided to increase the crude oil levy on import parity oil to take into public revenue the full windfall effect that has occurred since the end of last year and will continue to occur. Is it a fact that the Government has already backed away from this decision and has so informed the oil companies? If so, when were the companies informed and why has there been no announcement to this House and the public? 
-At the outset I want to put at rest the assertions of some Government members that the Australian Labor Party is not committed to some form of universal health insurance. The first point for honourable members opposite to understand is that our amendment with regard to the withdrawal of the 40 per cent general subsidy reads:  the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to exclude ... the abolition of the 40 per cent Commonwealth medical benefit presently payable for professional services, where the specified fee is $20 or less. 
That amendment does not state that we will not reintroduce a comprehensive national health insurance scheme. It merely implies that we are most definitely opposed to the removal of the present 40 per cent subsidy which is inherent in this Bill. I refer any honourable member who doubts our intentions to page 92 of the platform of the Australian Labor Party. At the top of the page it says that we will ensure access to basic health insurance for all, regardless of income. That certainly means to my mind and it must mean to anyone else in the Australian Labor Party that we stand committed to the principle of universal health insurance in whatever form we decide to implement it in government. 
These Bills mark the final destruction of Medibank in clear contradiction to the promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 27 November 1975. Of all the Prime Minister's broken promises, which include the provision of jobs for all those who wish to work, the removal of the 2.6c in the dollar tax surcharge, full tax indexation and half-yearly adjustments of pensions, the Medibank betrayal is probably the most reprehensible. The Australian people voted for a comprehensive national health insurance scheme in 1969, 1972, 1974 and, because it was then part of this Government's election manifesto, also in 1975. This is because people most likely believed the promise of the Prime Minister. When Labor was in office it kept its promise. Yet this Government dishonoured its promise. 
Let us look at the record. The original scheme started under the Whitlam Labor Government. It was funded from taxation since the Senate had obstructed the imposition of a 1.5 per cent levy on taxable income. It took this Government exactly nine months to break its promise. The first assault was in 1976 and a 2.5 per cent levy- 1 per cent more than Labor's proposal that it rejected in the Senate- was implemented in October of that year. Of course, the prime motive of that change was to start the exodus back to private health funds. In May 1978 we saw the socalled health cost control program extolled by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  who is now sitting at the table following the recommendations of the Sax report on health care costs. In early June 1978 we saw another major assault in which benefits were reduced from 85 per cent to 75 per cent of the scheduled fee. There was also an increase of the maximum gap from $5 to $10 per service, plus the abolition of bulk billing for all except eligible pensioners. The next savage attack came in the 1978 Budget. Medibank Standard and the health insurance levy were completely abolished and a 40 per cent general subsidy was implemented. It was supposed to be payable to those outside health insurance and to the health insurance funds on behalf of their members. It was left to the medical profession to decide who was sufficiently disadvantaged to receive the privilege of having their medical accounts bulk billed direct to the Department of Health. The accounts of 75 per cent of disadvantaged persons were met and 85 per cent of the accounts of pensioners were also met. We said then that the 40 per cent subsidy would not last for the duration of the financial year, let alone be a permanent policy feature. We also warned that it was stupid and an intrusion of privacy to allow the medical profession to determine whom of the unemployed, the disadvantaged families and the pensioners would be extended the bulk billing privilege. We were right. There is ample evidence that many people in these three categories are being charged the full amount by some doctors. In addition, as the  National Times  pointed out last week: 
A whopping 24 per cent of families near or below the poverty line are estimated to be paying for hospital or medical cover. 
These families are doing so either because they know they will not be extended the bulk billing privilege by their doctor or because they are reluctant to ask for it. Of course, we were right on the other count too. The 40 per cent subsidy has disappeared in the welter of broken promises enunciated by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his recent horror mini-Budget. Medibank was killed in this final act of deliberately considered destruction which has been going on, step by step, for three years. The Opposition considers that Medibank is merely dormant until Medibank Private can be resuscitated into a comprehensive national health insurance scheme which the people of Australia demand and are entitled to receive. 
Let us look at the effects of the changes in the horror mini-Budget. Firstly, the Government has abolished the 40 per cent general subsidy and increased to $20 the amount above which benefit is payable. It is interesting to look at what the funds have been charging in New South Wales up to this point. I take Medibank Private as the criterion. Medical benefit funds which return 75 per cent of the scheduled fee currently cost $3.40 per week. It costs $4.22 a week for intermediate ward coverage under the hospital funds. It costs another $1.96 a week to be covered in the extras table. Those figures add up to $9.58. This is even before the abolition of the 40 per cent subsidy is considered. If one merely wishes to be covered for 75 per cent of medical costs and the intermediate hospital cover the total is $7.62. 
Hospital charges have been raised from $40 to $50 a day for intermediate ward patients and from $60 to $75 a day for private health patients. The new rates are to commence on 1 September. As a result of the loss of the 40 per cent subsidy, medical benefit contributions will rise by $2.50 a week. The increase in hospital bed-day charges will ensure that hospital fund contributions rise by $1.30 a week. That means that the medical benefit table which provides only 75 per cent coverage will go up to $6 a week and that the hospital fund coverage for intermediate wards will rise to $5.50 a week. Therefore the combination of 75 per cent medical cover and intermediate ward hospital cover will now cost a staggering $11.50 a week. It will cost another $2 a week to be covered under the extras table. This makes a total of $13.50 a week or an amazing $702 a year. 
The Government hopes to save $2 15m by abolishing the 40 per cent subsidy. What will be the effects on contributions and those who are not currently members of health funds? Obviously, for those who are in health funds the contributions will go up, as I have stated. They must either pay the extra or leave the funds. Currently some 37 per cent of possible contributor units, that is, single individuals and families, are not in health funds. Their decision is most difficult since many of them are low income families and single low income people. Do they join a fund as the Government obviously wishes them to do? Do they join the 24 per cent of families on the poverty line who are paying these grossly exorbitant rates? If they do, their standard of living will fall even further, even though their health insurance needs are covered. Those who stay out of the funds will certainly receive free hospital treatment in a public ward under a hospital doctor, but they will still have to pay for every medical service that costs less than $20. That includes visits to general practitioners. Those people whom the family doctors refuse to classify as socially disadvantaged will pay the $9 plus for a GP consultation. 
When the Minister for Health abolished Medibank Standard, I said that it would tempt people to gamble on their future good health and to avoid seeing doctors when they should do so. Now that the 40 per cent subsidy has been taken away this trend will accelerate. As a result of the actions of the Minister and the Government, how many people, including children, from low income families will be denied early medical attention for a significant illness? By removing the 40 per cent general subsidy the Government has achieved the feat of increasing contributions for those who stay in medical funds and of increasing the medical bills for those who stay out of medical funds. The Minister has finally created what he has been attempting for the past three years- the destruction of universal health insurance and the creation of a misbegotten inequitable system whereby those who can pay receive the best in medical attention and those who cannot either make sacrifices to see a doctor, avoid seeking medical attention or beg to be treated as disadvantaged persons. 
Let us consider the position of the disadvantaged. The Minister and his Department qualify as pensioners only those in receipt of age, invalid or widows pensions. Supporting parents, receipients of social security payments and their dependants and the unemployed do not qualify as pensioners. They rely on the mercy and good grace of doctors. Let me repeat that many doctors and specialists feel no obligation whatsoever to bulk bill and to receive 75 or 85 per cent of their fees. Representatives from Community Youth Support Scheme programs in my electorate only yesterday spoke publicly of the many complaints received from unemployed persons about doctors refusing to bulk bill on their behalf. There are even allegations that some doctors who are bulk billing ibr unemployed people are still attempting, against the law, to retrieve either all or part of the remaining 25 per cent from the unemployed patient. Because of the horrendous unemployment figures, the Government must ensure that Commonwealth Employment Service officers are instructed to inform unemployed people- perhaps it can be done simultaneously with the payment of benefitswhich doctors and specialists in their particular area will bulk bill. This would serve the twin purpose of aiding the unemployed and exposing the greedier elements of the medical profession who seek to batten on the unemployed. 
I now turn to the situation regarding hospitals. Besides increasing the bed-day charges, as I have already pointed out, this Government has already abolished the hospital development program whereby it shared with the States the capital costs of the development of new hospitals. The Commonwealth Government's share of this now defunct program has fallen from $ 107m in the 1976-77 financial year to nil in this financial year, two years later. In addition, the Government now seeks to cut by some $200m the recurrent expenditure which is also shared on a dollar for dollar basis under the Commonwealth-State cost-sharing agreement. At least that is the figure that is mentioned in the media. I think it has been mentioned in this House also. How many jobs will be wiped out across Australia because of that cut? I have also heard the figure of 18,000 people mentioned. I ask the Minister to clarify his intention. Is that figure of $200m a definite one? Will that many jobs be at stake in the Australian health system if the Minister persists with his attempts to prune payments under the Federal-State cost-sharing agreement for recurrent expenditure? 
The Minister has also squeezed the community health program- perhaps the only real economy measure that the Australian health system has going for it at the moment. Remember that under the Whitlam Labor Government 90 per cent of the recurrent expenditure of the community health centre program was funded from Federal revenues. This financial year that expenditure has been cut to 50 percent- a $ 16.5m cut. While the Minister whinges and squawks about the cost of providing health services in Australia and perhaps, in some way, rightly talks about the $ 1 ,067m that the Federal Government is supplying to the States for hospital recurrent expenditure, in the same breath so to speak, he cuts the community health program by a lousy $ 16.5m to $57m. He then promotes private hospitals to fill the vacuum. Let me just digress slightly and once again record my opposition to organisations like the Hospital Corporation of Australia, a subsidiary of Hospital Corporation of America, stepping in to fill this lamentable gap. I have read about the executors boasting that they made 16 per cent profit on investment in the United States in this area. I have read of their worries that their profits may be pegged by United States legislation to 10 per cent and of their expectations that their move in Australia will restore the 16 to 20 per cent profit margin. I have also seen their expansion plans. I ask for leave to have this document incorporated in  Hansard.  It is a list of the current takeovers by Hospital Corporation of America of existing private hospitals and of its plans to build new ones. 
Leave granted. 

 The list read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197906040_59_1.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. Honourable members will see that there have already been eight takeovers of existing private hospitals and that HCA plans to build five new hospitals in Australia. I might add that the biggest one planned to be built is in my electorate. We certainly do not need another private hospital in the electorate of Cunningham. What we need are geriatric hospitals and nursing homes. I have no confidence that HCA will supply that sort of need when it can receive only $140 or $150 a week for a nursing home bed and some $500 a week for a private hospital bed. One thing is certain. We do not want a hospital built by Hospital Corporation of America in the electorate of Cunningham; nor would I have thought that many other electorates would want one as an alternative to the provision of services in a proper way by the Federal and State governments in the areas of need. 
These moves to downgrade community health centres and replace public hospital beds with private hospital beds contradict the warnings in the report on rationalisation of hospital facilities tabled by the Minister. The report specifically urges the expansion of low cost alternatives to hospital care by offering funds to the States for specific community health centre projects. It warns that there is a geographic and functional maldistribution of existing hospital facilities and warns against allowing private hospital organisations to take their own decisions about the siting of new private hospitals and which services they will provide. We are at a watershed in the provision of health services. The Government seeks to contain costs by cutting expenditure in the public sector, encouraging private facilities and destroying national health insurance. We take the other course, the integration of a comprehensive national health insurance with the expansion of community health and medical centres providing a full range of medical facilities by employing salaried staff. This is not unobtainable. No longer does the Australian Medical Association, that bastion of conservatism in medicine, fully control its own members. It is split on the right by the General Practitioners Society and on the left by the Doctors' Reform Society. 
There is an oversupply of doctors. We all know and admit that. Already we have reached the one doctor for 540 patients ratio envisaged for 1 990. Rather than seek to stem the flow, let us offer them decent jobs on just salaries at public hospitals, in community and health centres and medical centres. This is the way to an equitable health insurance scheme and a true national health service. The people of Australia reject the class conscious confusing hotchpotch that now passes for a national health program. 

 -Yes, Mr Deputy Speaker, I second the motion. I am reminded of the pledge that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who now sits at the table, made to the people of this nation when he was victorious in the 1975 Federal election. I remember seeing him on a television program. He was asked what were his aims in government. He said: 
My prime aim will be to provide honesty and integrity in government Tor the Australian people. 
I put it to the House that his Government has degenerated into a government led by tax avoiders, land dealers and company spivs. That is not to say that there are not some men of integrity on the Government front bench. 
-Thank you for that fair ruling,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  This Government is on an escalator of degeneration. It is going down all the way and the bottom is not yet in sight. It has failed in policy and in integrity in government, despite what the Prime Minister pledged in 1 975. When the New South Wales State Government set out to investigate this matter some two years ago, it was thought that some $267,000 may have been misappropriated from the six companies under discussion. We found out from the Minister for Primary Industry last night that the figure is more than double that, namely, $542,000. The  Age  reports this morning that $377,000 of that has been misdirected to the Sinclair Pastoral Co. Pty Ltd. That company is a family company. Its directors are the Minister for Primary Industry and his family. He is a life governing director of that family Sinclair Pastoral Co. Pty Ltd. In addition, the Minister is a director of all the companies from which the $547,000 has been misappropriated. I draw the attention of the House to the relevant Acts and forms of parliament that might be relevant in this matter now and in the future, especially after August of this year. Section 174 of the Crimes Act provides for 14 years gaol for known embezzlement from companies. Section 350 provides for five years gaol for being an accessory after the fact. It provides also for a $500,000 fine. Anyone concealing the identity of persons - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I hope I am not speaking in contradiction to your ruling, but I am now drawing your attention not to the Crimes Act, but to the section 375 of the New South Wales Companies Act which provides that company officers making false or misleading statements are liable to three years imprisonment, or a $5,000 fine, or both. 
-I wish to draw to the attention of the House the serious nature of these matters. I want also to prove to the House that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  took a very cavalier approach to this matter right from the start. When questioned by Mike Willesee on the Willesee show on 15 August 1977, the Minister said: 
These are personal accounts I might add and they haven 't been filed with anybody. It's a private company. 
On 4 October 1977 in this place he said: 
Although the company is a proprietary company, although the circumstances are such that the term misappropriation has been explained in public . . . this affair is exclusively the business of the shareholders of the companies - 
I agree with that; the shareholders should be concerned-   not of the Leader of the Opposition, not of the people of Australia. 
Even as late as 1 8 October last year the Minister was asked in an interview with the Melbourne  Age  whether he was aware of allegations that half a million dollars had been misappropriated from his family companies. He replied: 
Certainly 1 haven't seen that sum. There are problems in terms of funds that seem to have been misappropriated and that is why I instigated the investigation. 
He then went on to say:   . . No, well, technical breaches. But I am sure that just about every director of every private company in Australia doesn't have formal directors' meetings, doesn't necessarily enter every time that he meets members of that private company . . . he doesn't enter those affairs in the minute book of the company. 
Anyone would think that we were talking about a misappropriation of $10 from the petty cash. We are talking about half a million dollars. There is a long history of personal involvement here. Between 1972 and 1976 he signed a number of company returns stating them to be factual. So he is either dishonest or incompetent. In either case he is not fit to be a Minister of this Parliament. Two years ago he amended those returns and stated in them that $246,000 had been misappropriated. Last night he had another go. For the third time he amended the figures for misappropriation. We find that $260,000 has been misappropriated from Allan Walsh Pty Ltd and another $283,000 from Allan Walsh (Hornsby) Pty Ltd, which is a total of $489,000 from two companies, out of a total of $543,000 of which $377,000 went directly into the Sinclair Pastoral Co. Pty Ltd, his own family company. We have it on very good authority that this might not be the end of it. Will there be a fourth time? Come August, will the final figure turn out to be something like three-quarters of a million dollars? 
I want to conclude my remarks by saying that we in this place have a direct responsibility in this regard because of the tax connotations. It is a fair measure of the hide of these people that they were not content to misappropriate over half a million dollars, but part of those moneys was claimed as company tax deductions. 
I withdraw it and I say that part of those moneys was claimed as tax deductions. As a matter of fact Allan Walsh Pty Ltd got $91,366 in a tax rebate from these misappropriations and Allan Walsh (Hornsby) Pty Ltd received $33,886; a total of $125,222. Now here is the rub. The Minister is the sole beneficiary and executor of his father's will.  His  father died in January 1976. Probate was not applied for until 1 November 1978. It was then granted within two days; a miraculously speedy granting of the probate. The probate number was 867,260. In the will of the late G. M. Sinclair-I will skip over all the details- a net sum of $106,985 was left to the sole beneficiary, the Minister.for Primary Industry. I would like to ask the Minister and the House: Where is the money now? It is clearly owed, as was indicated by the Minister in his speech last night, which implicated his father, either to the companies or to the tax department. 
-That is the fact of the matter. Last night the Minister said that his father had misappropriated $540,000. Yet that same father left him $106,000 as the sole beneficiary in the will. Now is that not all very convenient? Last night in this place he said that he would pay the money back. He thinks that that smoothes the matter over and that is the end of it. How convenient. It seems incredible to me that half a million dollars could have been systematically embezzled from six companies into a family company over a period of five years, without the Minister knowing what was going on. He is either dishonest or incompetent. It is very convenient for him in this place to blame the whole affair on poor old dear departed daddy and expect us to forget about it. We will not forget about it. 
I conclude on this note. It is not I, or the Opposition who have made the allegations against the departed person. It is the Minister who has done that, last night and it is an easy way out. Perhaps we will only find out the real truth of the matter come August. I for one would not like to be in the shoes of the Minister when we know the full results of the Finnane inquiry. 
I would like to use the debate on the Coal Industry Amendment Bill 1979 to make a plea to the Government that when it brings down the Budget tonight it remove the discriminatory $3.50 per tonne levy on the export of coal and replace it with the policy of the Australian Labor Party which calls for the replacement of flat levies on tonnages with a resources tax based on profitability of companies. To show just how justified I am in raising this matter I refer to the case of Bellambi Coal, a subsidiary of Allied Gold Fields. At the end of the last financial year it turned in a pre-tax loss of $2.9m and then had to pay a $4.5m levy on coal produced. I ask the House to compare that situation with that of the Utah Development Corporation which, after paying some $80m-odd in coal export levy, still turned in a profit of $ 130m at the end of the last financial year. There can be no doubt that the coal export levy as a flat levy on tonnage rather than a tax on profits discriminates against marginal mines, particularly the smaller underground producers in New South Wales vis-a-vis the larger open cut mines in Queensland in the Bowen basin which have a tremendous advantage in having rail transport to the ports of Queensland, and, of course, being much closer to Japan. 
I make an appeal to this Government to remove the coal export levy tonight and replace it with a resources tax on profitability. If $350 per tonne levy remains, at least $2 per tonne ought to be returned to State governments, such as the New South Wales Government, to pay for transport infrastructure to the much needed new ports. We cannot allow a continuation of a situation in which we export larger amounts of coal and build ports to expedite its sea transportation, but do nothing very much to expedite its land transportation. While the levy remains, clearly a proper percentage of that levy ought to be returned to the appropriate State government for transport purposes. 
However, the last point I make is that the levy clearly ought to come off and be replaced by a resources tax. Such a resources tax, pitched at the right threshold level of profitability to investment, would most certainly miss most of the smaller mines in New South Wales and thus would allow the New South Wales Government to impose levies less than the present $3.50 per tonne- say, $1 to $2 per tonne- to pay for the ports, the railroads and the conveyor systems that are so necessary in order to get our coal into the ships. 
-I think that it would help industrial relations enormously. There is no question about it. If this situation continues much longerwith the Bellambi mine, about which I have just spoken, making a $2. 9m loss after paying $4.5m to the Federal Government as a coal levy, none of which is returned to the State government for infrastructure purposes- we will not have to worry about industrial relations in regard to employing people, because obviously the mine will not continue to operate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. In view of the Government's admission last night - 

 Honourable members interjecting. 

I have been increasingly concerned about the scandalous Australian Broadcasting Tribunal hearings on the transfer of control and ownership of a major New South Wales provincial television broadcasting station, WIN4, and its future. The dubious connections between certain media groups and the Tribunal  Chairman, Mr Gyngell,  and the subsequent role of the Tribunal and the Minister have led the Opposition to call for a reopening of the hearing by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal on the sale of this station. The hearing was riddled with legal inconsistencies. The Murdoch group, News Ltd, owned the controlling interest in WIN TV, but under the Broadcasting and Television Act no company can have more than two holdings of 5 per cent in any two television channels. The Act also provides that not more than 15 per cent of a licence holding may be owned by an overseas resident.  Mr Murdoch  decided to divest himself of the WIN TV shares in order to clear the way for his takeover of Channel 10. 1 question the Machiavellian tactics involved. 
In effect, there were two simultaneous inquiries to effect this transfer of ownership, and both were so legally shaky that one must challenge their entire validity. The inquiries were so hastily conducted, and the tactics used so convoluted, that I and most other Australians are still unsure as to who owns WIN TV Channel 4. Ostensibly  Mr Murdoch's  share went to an obscure broadcasting company, Oberon Broadcasters Pty Ltd, apparently controlled by a  Mr Bruce  Gordon.  Mr Gordon  was a well known entrepreneur in Australia during the 1950s, but he now resides in New York and is a vice-president of the powerful Paramount Pictures organisation. For the purposes of the Act his Australian residential status is dubious. In order to avoid this obstacle, when it became apparent during the course of the WIN TV hearing that it could constitute an obstacle in the takeover bid,  Mr Gordon  hastily divested himself of his Oberon shares and two accountants, a  Mr Cowley  and a  Mr Alagich,  stepped in; but this was not before  Mr Gordon  found that he was not in control of Oberon and that his wife had the majority share. 
In order to show the extent of this fiasco and the way in which it developed, I quote from the  Australian Financial Review  of 4 July 1979, which says: 
The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal's inquiry into the sale of  Mr Rupert  Murdoch's Wollongong television station WIN-4 came to a stunned- but temporary- halt yesterday. 
It was revealed halfway through the hearing that the chief witness,  Mr Bruce  Gordon, did not own Oberon Broadcasters Pty Ltd, the family company making the $4.5 million purchase. 
After some confusion, Oberon 's counsel,  Mr Henric  Nicholas, asked for an adjournment to check the company's records. 
When the hearing resumed,  Mr Nicholas  told  Mr Moremon  that it had always been intended to transfer three of  Mrs Gordon's  shares to  Mr Gordon,  but through an oversight this had not happened. 
Then they agreed to continue with the hearing on the understanding that the transfer would be made immediately. So there were two major share movements between the opening of the hearing and the announcement of the favourable Tribunal decision. One was the transfer of shares from  Mrs Gordon  to her husband. The second and more important one was the transfer of shares from  Mr Gordon  to his two accountants, Cowley and Alagich. But let us not be under any misapprehension about this matter: The business stays in a cosy family group. Not only did the company gloss over ownership discrepancies but also the Tribunal proved itself to be only too willing to do the same.  Mr Gyngell  has been in business association with  Mr Gordon  over many years and he has a long business association with the two accountants. I quote again from the  Australian Financial Review  of 15 August 1979, which states: 

 Mr Gyngell said he had withdrawn from the WIN4 hearing and did not vote on last week's decision because of his long association with  Mr Gordon,  who had looked after  Mr Gyngell  's family company, Warooka Pty Ltd, while he was in England between 1972 and 1975. 
They also shared the same accountants, Cowley and Alagich. 

 Mr Gyngell said that the Minister for Posts and Telecommunications,  Mr Staley,  had been advised of these circumstances, and that he  (Mr Gyngell)  had stated his connections with the applicants and withdrawn from the WIN4 deliberation at a meeting in Melbourne on June 4. 

 Mr Gyngell, to give him his due, informed the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  of these facts and did not sit in on the hearing. But the decision is the responsibility of the Tribunal and he is the  Chairman.  He cannot just become a nominal  chairman  to suit the occasion. The  Chairman  and the Tribunal are responsible and so is the Minister. What is the Minister's role in all of this? The Minister, perhaps thinking he had been a little too harsh on  Mr Gyngell  a couple of months ago when a public outcry caused the Minister to reject a $500-plus liquor bill incurred at  Mr Gyngell  's home during the course of an evening's entertainment and which he happily charged to the Government, decided that  Mr Gyngell  's confession was of no interest to the public. Of no interest to the public! The whole business is a fiasco. If the Minister thought  Mr Gyngell  's associations had no bearing on the matter, why did  Mr Gyngell  disqualify himself from the hearing. What precisely has been the Minister's role in this whole affair? 
Finally, just who does own WIN4, Wollongong? Ownership should be based in the region it serves. The people who use the facility should have a say in its operation. If there are no connections on a regional basis, there should at least be links on a State or even a national basis. Do we have this assurance?  Mr Gordon  has relinquished temporary control and will be free to resume full control at a later date when it suits him and his contract expires with Paramount. In the meantime his two proxies can act on his behalf. If he does not choose to come back they can act on his behalf forever. If links can be made between Gordon, Cowley, Alagich and Gyngell, is there any chance of another more obscure link with Murdoch? Why is no one willing to answer these questions? 
The Tribunal already has a questionable record. In May of this year the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden,  called for  Mr Gyngell  's resignation because of his obvious bias towards the commercial interests and away from public interest. A Tribunal member, Janet Strickland, resigned in disgust about the way the Tribunal rode roughshod over the public during public inquiries and the intolerable way the Tribunal changed the rules to suit the interest of Channel 9. In the last few weeks we have called for a fresh inquiry to examine, not only the WIN4 situation and the Channel 10 situation but also the whole business of media ownership in Australia. The Tribunal's dealings are a scandal. The Minister is at fault for allowing such scandals to go unchecked. 
What is the Minister's role? Does he sanction this irresponsible behaviour and blatant disregard for public interest because he is so incompetent that he does not know what is going on? Or worse, does he condone the whole WIN4- Channel 10 scandal? The people of the Illawarra region and the South Coast have a right to know what is going on with regard to their local television station. The Minister has a responsibility to inform them. The Australian people have a right to a new and open inquiry into the sale and transfer of ownership and control of WIN4 and Channel 10 to expose the scandals that I have mentioned and to rectify the injustices perpetrated by the Minister and those who are supposed to be responsible to him. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether he recalls that on 7 Julie the Minister for Primary Industry stated in Parliament:  . . from the moment these irregularities in the Walsh companies first appeared, I reported them to the Prime Minister and to my own leader. I told them of the nature of the manner in which I hoped to resolve them. I have continued that reporting. 
Did the Minister for Primary Industry tell the Prime Minister prior to 1 November 1978 that he considered his father was responsible for the misappropriations specified in various documents lodged with the Corporate Affairs Commission? If not, when did the Minister for Primary Industry inform the Prime Minister? 
-The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  lead a high tax government. Their efforts to portray the Liberal and National Country parties as low tax parties have been exposed forever by the Budget, by the Opposition, by the Australian Taxpayers Association and, belatedly, by the media. On the one hand this Budget is far too sharply contractionary and will inexorably cause further unemployment. On the other hand it is inflationary by virtue of the huge petrol price hikes that inevitably will surge through the whole economy. The reduction in the overall deficit from $3.5 billion to $2.2 billion has been effected exclusively within the domestic economy since the domestic deficit has been cut by a massive $ 1 ,400m to $900m. That represents the most savage reduction in the domestic deficit for decades. The revenue from oil levies and excise duties has rocketed to $2,030m. Not satisfied with this huge rip-off of motorists and industry at the production end, the Government takes another $956m by way of excise duty on refined petrol. These taxes are calculated on the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries prices as at 1 July. Further oil price increases will provide extra certain revenue this year. A 5 per cent increase would mean at least another $2 50m. So the oil-petrol tax rip-offs have been underestimated. 
Similarly, company tax has been underestimated in this Budget. Total collections are estimated at $3,280m, and that is only 11.1 per cent of total Federal revenue anyway. It seems that the rise in company profits will continue into 1979-80 as exemplified by the latest returns from the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, the Utah Development Co., the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney Ltd, Peko- Wallsend Ltd and so on. It is forecast that the estimate for total company tax could in fact be 10 per cent more, which of course means a possible extra $300m from this source alone. So the Budget could be even more contractionary than so far admitted. The so-called low tax government has achieved all this by, firstly, increasing its income tax on wage and salary earners by $2.3 billion, or 18 per cent more than last year's figures; secondly, raising $3 billion in selective taxation from users of petroleum products; thirdly, abolishing the general 40 per cent health insurance subsidy; and fourthly, cutting capital expenditure for State works programs such as those for housing, schools and medical buildings. 
Despite assertions that a turn-around in overseas investment in the second half of the year has improved and will continue to improve the balance of payments deficit, there is still a continuing haemorrhage in the current account. How the Treasurer can regard the current account balance of payments deficit of $3.1 billion, some $600m more than last year, as being satisfactory is astounding. The Government still had to borrow $ 1,557m from overseas partially to compensate for the deficit in the balance of payments. The dreadfully high invisible payout was $3.7 billion. I have said this before, and let me say it again: When is the Government going to do something about this drain of our funds overseas in payment for freight on exports and imports. It is a standing disgrace that only 3 per cent of our exports and imports are carried by ships of the Australian National Line or by ships carrying an Australian flag. 
The Budget will create further unemployment and increase inflation to at least 10 per cent this year. The Budget Papers say that. It is designed to reduce real wages and salaries and cut general living standards. It says that the 1978-79 inflation rate of 8.8 per cent exceeded wage increases of 7.7 per cent by 1.1 per cent. It predicts that wages will rise by 9 per cent this year as against an expected 10 per cent inflation rate. So, by conservative Treasury estimates, this means that real wages will be reduced by more than 2 per cent over two years. Instead of reducing living standards and creating further unemployment by slashing real wages and the domestic deficit, we need stimulatory and expansionary policies. Cutting the deficit and capital expenditure by creating more unemployment restricts the tax base even further, leading to the necessity to increase taxes on those lucky enough to hold jobs, and to cut expenditure further next year. All of this in turn leads to even more unemployment. As the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  puts it: 
The Government creates an economic vortex in which higher taxes and expenditure cuts inevitably increase unemployment, and so on. 
It is a vicious circle in the worst sense. This Budget is without doubt an unemployment Budget. The Budget Papers predict only a 0.75 per cent growth in total employment this financial year. Taking into account the 6.056 million people who are calculated as being in total employment, that means, in round figures, some 45,000 extra jobs. The Department of Employment and Youth Affairs figures suggest that the potential total work force will increase by 100,000 to 120,000 this financial year. That means, on simple arithmetic, that this Budget will create between 55,000 and 75,000 more unemployed this financial year. But- and this is the pertinent point- this depends upon the accuracy of the Budget forecasts, which predict a 3 per cent growth in the non-farm sector and a 2.5 per cent growth in gross domestic product this year. That may be an overestimate, it may be optimistic. If the forecasts of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  are correct, and I think they are, we could face a growth in the non-farm sector of less than 2 per cent this financial year, in which case the increase in the potential labour force, about which I have just spoken, of up to 120,000 will indeed feed straight through to unemployment. So the real increased unemployment figure as a result of this Budget could be not 55,000 to 75,000 but 100,000 to 120,000. Those people will join the 410,000 that the Commonwealth Employment Service already has registered. To that number can be added the at least 200,000 so-called discouraged job seekers. They are the people who the Budget Papers again estimate are unemployed but who for one reason or another have failed to register. That is inherent in the 1.6 per cent fall in the participation rate in the work force that is outlined in the Budget Papers. So altogether these figures add up to 685,000 at a conservative estimate, or 1 1 percent of the work force that we can confidently expect will be unemployed by April or May next year as a result of this Government's policies. 
There is no question that the unemployed are the losers in this Budget. They are forgotten by this Government. The Government has cut the Special Youth Employment Training Program by $50m. That means that some 40,000 fewer young people will be employed under that scheme. The other day the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  criticised employers for abusing the program and said that they were treating it simply as a job subsidy instead of a training scheme. He has finally found that out. I told him that some 12 months ago. The point is that the Budget ignores the unemployment problem. It has given $2 6m more to the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Fulltime Training scheme and that is welcome, but it is at the expense of the disadvantaged young unemployed- the long term unemployed youth whom the scheme was supposed to assist. 
The Government's treatment of the unemployed is absolutely scurrilous. It restored halfyearly indexation for pensioners, but not for the unemployed without dependants. That has meant that the $36 payable to those over 1 8 has been pegged since 1975 and the $51.45 payable to those over 1 8 has been pegged since 1 978. The pensioner income test, which determines pension eligibility, is $20 for a single person and $34 for a married couple. The pensioner health card thresholds for income are $40 and $68 respectively. But the unemployed do not get health cards and neither is their threshold level of income set at $20 or $34. It is $6 for a family, and every dollar earned over that is a direct reduction on their income. 
This Government has made the unemployed the new pariahs and the untouchables of our society. It has attempted to revive the hated dole bludger syndrome in an attempt to make out before the people of Australia that these people are unemployed as a result of their own inadequacies. That is simply not true. Look at the attacks through the latest changes in the work test. The Government intends to make skilled workers seek less skilled jobs in areas far from their homes. Young people are asked to provide evidence that they are seeking out employers regularly, for jobs that just do not exist. There are 410,000 people now registered as unemployed, and only 16,700 registered vacancies. If all those vacancies were filled- every one of them- there would still be 390,000 people unemployed. What is the sense in harassing young people and telling them that they have to go out to look for non-existent jobs every day of the week? It would be far better if they were encouraged to participate in meaningful manpower programs and training. Such is the vicious stupidity of this Government. Before I leave the topic of unemployment I remind honourable members of what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said on 27 November 1975 in his election policy speech. He said: 
We will be generous to those who can 't get a job and want to work. 
This coalition Government tries to pretend that its parties are low tax parties. They have a very bad track record indeed on taxation. In February 1978 the so-called tax cuts were implemented. They gave $3 a week to a person earning $200 a week but $62 a week to someone earning $ 1,000 a week. By 1 November last year the promise in the previous Budget was broken as the surcharge was implemented. The combination of the tax cuts of early that year and the surcharge meant that a person earning $200 a week was 15c a week worse off while the person earning $1,000 was $38 ahead. Then the Government pledged to remove the 2.57c in the dollar surcharge as of 30 June this year and pledged itself to restore full tax indexation. It is history that the combined effects of the mini-Budget and the August Budget of this year created a situation in which there was no tax indexation whatsoever and a surcharge of 1.07c in the dollar was applied over the complete financial year. So it is not a case of the surcharge of 2.57c in the dollar coming off on 1 December; it is a case of a 1 .07c in the dollar surcharge being left on for the complete financial year. So within those paramaters as set out in the Budget Papers, a 9 per cent wage increase is predicted, there is to be a 1.07c in the dollar surcharge over 12 months and there will be no tax indexation. The figures of  Mr Eric  Risstrom and the shadow Treasurer are correct. They show that a person on the low income of $6,000 a year, within the criteria I have just outlined, will pay 156 per cent more in income tax and a person on $12,000 will pay 15 per cent more. There is no argument with those figures. 
I turn now to the greatest scandal in Australian budgetary history; that is, the great oil and petrol tax rip-off. The Government tries to blame the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries for this situation. It is not OPEC's decision; it is the Government's decision. Australia produces 70 per cent of its crude oil requirements which produces 90 per cent of its petrol requirements. The iniquitous decision to pass on the full effects of the OPEC rises to the Australian scene will raise $2,030m for Federal revenues this year. It will hand over $790m in revenue to Esso-BHP, and $470m of that will be windfall profits as a result of the Government's decision. It will also raise the consumer price index by 2.5 per cent this financial year. The decision has lifted petrol prices from 15c a litre to 30c a litre between the Budget of 1977 and the Budget of 1979. The Government will receive $3 billion in combined levy, excise and duty on refined petroleum products this financial year- $500 for every employed person in this country or $625 for every civilian employed in this country. It means that in two years the cost of filling the tank of an ordinary 6-cylinder family car has risen from $8.50 to $17.00. The reasons for this rip-off have been given by the Government as the need to encourage exploration and the need to conserve oil reserves. Neither of those objectives can be demonstrated to have been met. The policy is simply not working. Only 52 wells were drilled in the last financial year. Esso-BHP allocated only $ 1 50m of those windfall profits to exploration off the Western Australian coast over six years. In 1978 the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd spent $ 1 on oil exploration abroad for every $2 it spent in Australia. 
There is no denying that the oil situation is serious. Oil prices will continue to rise and oil will become scarcer as oil producing countries, especially in the Middle East, seek to conserve their only one real source of export earning income. The limit of oil prices will be the capacity of the consuming nations to pay and the cost of liquid energy alternatives. All that is true, but we can afford not to pass on these inflationary increases automatically if we do a number of things to help ourselves. Clearly, one of the things we ought to do is to implement the decision of the Australian Labor Party taken in Adelaide to set up an Australian hydrocarbons corporation to engage in all the activities of an integrated oil company, from exploration to marketing. Further, we ought to spend much more money on funding alternatives to petrol. It is unbelievable that the Prime Minister in his recent energy statement allocated only an extra $5m- up to $9m- a year for research into this vital program of research into alternative energy and liquid fuels. The  President  of the United States of America,  President  Carter, in his recent statement on these matters foreshadowed the spending of an extra $5 billion. People in the United States understand that they have to reduce the consumption of 8.5 million barrels of oil a day, which equals the whole of the daily production of Saudi Arabia. That figure has to be reduced. So the United States is spending $5 billion on research into alternative energy measures. And this Government allocates $9m and professes to have an energy program. 
In conclusion, I say that this is a sinister and deceitful Budget. The financial editor of the Melbourne  Age  wrote the day after its delivery: 
It will not last six months unless the coalition believes it is possible to go into an election campaign in 1980 with a stagnant economy and an unprecedented level of unemployment. 
The Government must know this. Perhaps Australia really faces yet another mini-Budget in six or eight months. After all $ 1,400m can be regenerated by raising the domestic deficit to 1978-79 levels. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Whenever I hear the Minister for National Development (  Mr Newman)  in these interminable debates where he defends himself or attempts to defend himself on these most important energy matters I get a remarkable sense of deja vu because all he does is repeat himself ad nauseam and attempt to bluster his way through with 15 minutes of nonsense. It is no wonder that the  Australian Financial Review  and other responsible elements of the media refer to him as a junior Minister heading a junior department. One can better understand that comment when one looks at the situation. Who in this Government is responsible for this vital energy policy? The Department of National Development is responsible for oil pricing and supply. The Department of Trade and Resources is responsible for the issue of export licences, the pricing of such vital energy components as coal and uranium and for setting pricing parameters on the export of coal. The Department of the Treasury attempts to perform its usual overseeing role. Above and overriding them all is the heavy hand of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. That Department always insists on having the final say. As far as an energy policy is concerned, the Minister for National Development, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  are bogged down in a quagmire of their own making and their own ineptitude. 
What about the Green Paper, the much vaunted Green Paper that was promised one year ago for March this year? There has been no appearance of that Green Paper yet. Of course, now we know why there has been no Green 
Paper. It has been shunted around the departments like a kids' game of pass the parcel. No one really wanted to open up the parcel and show the people of Australia what was in it. It is little wonder when one looks at the revelations in a report in yesterday's  Australian Financial Review.  According to that report the Green Paper states: 
In the interests of economic stability the Australian Government could decide not to immediately flow through such an increase to the price of indigenous crude oil. 
A phasing ofthe price of indigenous crude oil towards the new world parity levels may be needed. 
Such a phasing also, would not necessarily conflict with the objective of world parity pricing for indigenous crude oil. 
The article comments: 
This stated position is much closer to Labor policy than government policy. 
It is no wonder that the so-called Green Paper was suppressed. So at this stage, the Prime Minister, as he is sometimes wont to do, took over. He released an energy Press statement instead of the Green Paper. It took the Prime Minister three months to produce that Paper, and in June it took him three minutes to deliver it. When one looks at the Green Paper, one can understand why. It contains such futilities as: 
Expects oil companies to obtain imported oil supplies, as necessary, to meet Australian requirements. It will ensure that the PJT will permit oil companies to pass on to users the higher costs associated with spot purchases and will provide an assurance to this effect to the companies. The companies will be required to satisfy the PJT that spot purchases are bona fide and at arm's length. The Government will ask NSW and South Australia to take similar action. 
In another section of the so-called energy statement the Prime Minister said that the Government: 
Will formally ask the oil companies to provide complete data on the supply, consumption, stocks and exports of petroleum products in order to improve its monitoring of the oil situation. 
So on the one hand the Prime Minister is saying in that latter paragraph that the Government does not trust the oil companies to supply full data on costs and shipping and so on; yet on the other hand, in a naive way, he gives them full control and instructs them to import oil at spot prices, expecting the Prices Justification Tribunal to pass on to the Australian public the effects of buying under that spot purchasing system. 
I make the point that the Prices Justification Tribunal on the federal scene has been seen to be inadequate in monitoring costs in the oil industry. It has been so inadequate that the New South Wales Prices Commission has issued a questionnaire of 36 pages to all the oil companies. They are required to complete it in full detail before the Commission will allow any more increases in the price of petrol in New South Wales. It covers such areas as f.o.b. prices on imported oil, shipping costs, the actual purchase of local crude oil and so on. So the Government will not take action to monitor the industry through the PJT, and the New South Wales Prices Commission, if it wants to do the job, is required to step in to fill the gap. 
I invite honourable members to compare this mishmash with the policy of the next Federal Labor government. We have made it perfectly clear in a constructive way what we intend to do. The federal conference in Adelaide spelt out very clearly that we will set up a separate department of energy and minerals and establish a fuel and energy commission. We will place under one umbrella responsibility for administering all policy regarding energy. We will set up a fuel and energy commission to draft long-term energy policy. With regard to petroleum, we have made it abundantly clear that there will not be any automatic flow-on of Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries prices to the price of Australian indigenous crude. We have made it clear that, because the oil companies are not spending a proper proportion of their windfall profits on oil exploration, we will set up an oil and gas corporation to explore, produce, refine and market oil. What could be clearer than that? 
I note that my colleagues in Western Australia take the situation seriously enough to call a special conference in Perth for next weekend to hear what the mining and energy industry in Western Australia has to say and to explain our policies to it. There is no question that we need a separate energy department. We are the only Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development nation of any size that does not have one. Even tiny Norway has its own department of fuel and energy. Here we have a Minister for National Development who has a junior ranking in the Ministry. The Department of" National Development covers oil pricing policy and four other departments have a finger in the pie covering the highly technical area of energy. One single department should administer such areas as pricing policies on oil, coal and gas, research and production of alternative liquid fuels, gas pipelines, the rationalisation of coal production, an oil and gas corporation, the buying of oil on a government to government basis and liaising with the States on their power generation needs. 
I make this point with regard to not passing on automatically OPEC prices to Australian petrol prices: It is OPEC which makes the decision on the price of its own oil; it is the Australian 
Government that makes the decision on what the price of Australian oil will be. In Australia, we produce 90 per cent of our petrol requirements from the 70 per cent of oil produced from domestic wells. We can charge the full OPEC price if we wish, but that is our decision. That is what the Government has done. It has chosen to make it a revenue raising enterprise and has raised $2000m from the import parity pricing and another $956m from a direct tax on petrol at the pump. If the Government wants to do this, it can do so; but it should clearly explain the negative effects of its actions. The effects of decisions taken in the 1977-78 and 1978-79 Budgets have been to double petrol prices to 30c a litre in the last two years, to increase the consumer price index by 2.5 per cent this year, to double the price of aviation gas since 1 975 and to increase the operating cost of the average farm by $ 1,000 a year. 
There are alternatives to this inflationary nonsense. We need to replace the present shambles with the Labor policy that I have just enunciated. That means three things, and we can afford the luxury of our own pricing policy if we do these things: We need to explore for oil ourselves, using the expertise of the oil and gas corporation; we need to step up our research and production program on liquid fuels such as methanol, ethanol and oil produced from shale and coal; and we need to produce an overall rational energy program and policy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Unemployment as a national statistic sounds grim enough, but it is heartbreaking to see individual instances. I draw the attention of this House to the plight of a group of young people in my electorate who have succeeded in battling almost impossible odds only to have been served today with a sharp slap on the face by this Federal Government. I refer to the Warilla Active Youth Team which is funded under the Community Youth Support Scheme. Warilla is a typical working class Housing Commission area in the Shellharbour municipality. For years, residents and the council have struggled to get commonplace facilities such as sewerage, roads, a swimming pool and a youth centre. Just when the quality of life for the people of Warilla was starting to improve, the scourge of unemployment hit. The area has one of the worst levels of youth unemployment in Australia. In July, 1,050 under-20-year-olds were registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service, compared with six job vacancies. Since the Warilla Active Youth Team started, 600 people have been helped by the program. As a result, 150 have been successful in finding work- not a bad record, considering those disastrous unemployment figures. 
When I rang personally to support the Warilla Active Youth Team for this year's funding, the Sydney project officer described it as one of the most successful community youth support schemes in Australia; but today the group was told not only that its funding had been slashed but also that it had been cut from a 12-monthly basis to a six-monthly basis. Not only do these people have to cope with an expected 1 1 per cent reduction in funds but also they cannot plan anything, except for a six-monthly period. Two of the most significant areas- sessional instructors and class materials- have been reduced by $4,000 for the next six months. It may not sound much, but consider the people affected, the efforts they have made and their success rate. It is typical of the national situation, rather than the exception. On a national level the Community Youth Support Scheme was cut by 14 per cent in real terms in the last Budget. The National Employment and Training scheme was cut by 47 per cent; that is, by an overall $50m. The Special Youth Employment Training Program was cut by 60 per cent, or by $55m. It is true that Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training subsidies were increased, but this was done only at the expense of the other schemes. Money taken from the Special Youth Employment Training Program has not been reallocated to other schemes to alleviate the unemployment problem or to assist in job creation schemes. 
There are justifiable alternatives to these schemes, such as direct subsidies to employers in areas badly hit by unemployment. This would involve payments to employers who make net increases to their labour force. The CRAFT scheme has been expanded, but only at the expense of the disadvantaged unemployed young. It is the unskilled unemployed who are bearing the brunt of this Government's savage measures. Age pensioners have a rough time of it, for sure; but at least they are means tested from a base level of $20 for single pensioners and $34 for married couples and they have health cards. The unemployed are means tested from $6 a week. This amount ought to be raised immediately to pensioner levels. The under- 18 unemployed without dependants have been pegged on $36 a week since 1975. That means that there has been a 60 per cent reduction in real terms. They need at least a $2 1 a week increase to bring them back to 1975 levels. 
There will be no prospect for work for most of these young people in Warilla, and other places like it, because there is no growth in employment under this Government. It is an absolute disgrace for the Government to curtail activities embarked upon under the Community Youth Support Scheme. If this Government cannot find jobs for young people, the very least it can do is to keep funding the youth support schemes on last year's levels. This gutless abrogation of responsibility by this myopic, ad hoc Government disillusions and destroys our youth. They are our future, and this Government will eventually taste their wrath at the ballot box. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Hodges)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I believe that all the clauses up to clause 5 are symptomatic of what is very dangerous legislation. This is anti-democratic legislation because it simply redefines and widens the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation 's powers to collect information regarding national security. It also legalises many previously illegal activities pursued by ASIO which were exposed in the Hope report. But I believe also that because the Hope report precedes all of this legislation, it ought to be seen also as morally fraudulent because it identifies problems and then relies on ASIO to reform itself from within. 
-With respect,  Mr Chairman,  I thought that we were dealing with all the clauses up to clause 5, besides the actual amendment. 
What I am attempting to do is to preface my remarks regarding the amendment by dealing with the earlier clauses because they relate to it. 
-All right. I was saying that the conclusions of the Hope report were inadequate and, since these introductory clauses also follow the Hope conclusion through, the legislative controls over ASIO will also be seen to be inadequate. I believe that these security organisations ultimately take on a life of their own and automatically identify their own interests with the national interest, which of course they see as the interests of conservative administration which supports their organisations' operation. I am coming to the point in regard to the word ultimately' and the words to which it relates.  Mr Chairman,  I draw your attention to the definitions of espionage, sabotage, subversion, security and so on, and I then move on to the amendment to clause 5. Clause 5 ( 1 ) (a), in dealing with the meaning of subversion when not of foreign origin', reads:  activities that involve, will involve or lead to, or are intended or likely ultimately to involve or lead to, the use of force or violence . . . 
The definition is the key to the use of the word ultimately'. The key words, of course, are 'security' and 'subversion'. Any definition of those words is very important to the use of the word ultimately'. In my belief, the key word is 'security'; but one has to examine the question, 'Security for whom?' before one can examine what is meant by this clause in a definitive way. The very nature of the ASIO beast ensures that security will remain a matter of subjective definition. ASIO lives in the shadows of overseas multinationals that control Australia and the structure of the society which incorporates the ASIO creature must be retained if ASIO is to survive. So ASIO will always oppose political and social change, because such a change challenges its very existence. 

 - Mr Chairman, with respect, what I am trying to show is that, if we are talking about the word 'ultimately' and what these facts will ultimately lead to, it is obvious that they will ultimately lead to a threat of subversion or a threat to security. Surely a proper examination of what is meant there must hinge on what is meant by 'security' and 'subversion '. 
-All right. Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  I will proceed. The use of the word 'ultimately' implies the use of judgment, and one accepts the argument of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  The question is: Whose judgment? If one reads the Hope report one will see that  Mr Justice  Hope was not at all impressed by the calibre of the ASIO agents who would be seen to exercise judgment. I ask honourable members to read the Hope report in that respect. This is the cardinal point on this matter: The use of the word 'ultimately' and what sort of a person is making a judgment on what acts will ultimately lead to further unlawful acts. 
As I have said, if honourable members read the Hope report they will see that  Mr Justice  Hope did not have any confidence in the ability of employees of ASIO to reach such judgments. That is why, during the late 1960s and early 1970s we had the spectacle of ASIO agents placing under surveillance people who marched in anti-Vietnam demonstrations- clergymen, academics and trade union leaders- because in their judgment those actions were ultimately bound to lead to threats against security and constituted subversion. When the record of ASIO agents is considered, I suggest that one can have no confidence in their judgment on these matters. If we can have no confidence in the people who are going to make those judgments, then obviously any word such as 'ultimately' ought to be removed since the legislation needs to be as clear and definitive as possible. 
-Clause 5 ( 1 ) (c) attempts to define the meaning of subversion. The clause, in part, defines subversion as:  activities directed to promoting violence or hatred between different groups of persons in the Australian community so as to endanger the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. 
In examining this provision two points emerge. Because subversion is a subjective concept, this Government is obliged to attempt to define the impossible. 
-The Government is attempting, in a very loose way, to do the impossible. Subversion is really not definable because it depends upon the political view in the eye of the beholder. Concepts of democracy have been, and still are in some countries, classified as being subversive. Five hundred years ago the idea of the earth being round was considered subversive. In Europe a few hundred years ago the suggestion that the earth revolved around the sun was so heretical that one could have been burned at the stake for expressing it. I do not want to give any history lessons, but perhaps I may be permitted one example. The great astronomer Copernicus withheld for 36 years the publication of his revolutionary work concerning the movement of the heavenly spheres, for fear of joining the thousands of heretics in the great fifteenth century auto-da-fe. So we are trying here to define the impossible; to define subversion is to attempt to define the impossible. 
Therefore, the Government moves, in a very broad way, to apply that concept to the word hatred'. In so doing the wording used is almost as stupidly vague as it is in clause 5 (a). How can one legislate to control human emotions? How can one legislate to control human emotions in political situations? How is the word 'hatred' to be defined? This stupid Government really seeks to produce a sterile world. It is really like the world which Jonathan Swift outlined 250 years ago, a world in which there was no emotion, no hatred, no politics. That was the world of the Houyhnhnms, which he defined in the last book of  Gulliver's Travels.  The Government wants a strictly-controlled world, as Orwell imagined in  1984.  But the question is, how would the Bill operate? In this respect whom would clause 5 (c) cover? Does the Government imagine that it would cover the situation of the Croatians in their hatred of the government of Marshal Tito, the Chileans in their hatred of the military junta of Colonel Pinochet, or the attitude of East Timorese in Australia, particularly those who are in Darwin, who certainly will have a continuing objection to the present regime in Indonesia under General Suharto? Perhaps it could also be applied to pensioners and their organisations which seek to achieve a better deal for their members- as they did recently in their struggle to achieve half-yearly indexation. 
The domestic group that has the most reason to hate the Government is the unemployed. When one understands what the Government is doing to this group one understands that many unemployed people would have good reason to hate the Government and all that it stands for. 
Are they too to be persecuted under clause 5 (c) if they attempt to organise, say, a great national body whose aim is to remove this Government from power? Their leaders would, of course, be put under surveillance by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Government members are having themselves on if they claim that that is not so. The fact is that in this matter a judgment must be made. That is why I object to what the Government is doing. Who will have to make the judgment? We of the Opposition have no confidence in the people in ASIO who will have to make the judgment. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  quoted several passages from the Hope report to make his point. I will read again one quote and back it up with another.  Mr Justice  Hope made a damning indictment of ASIO's past activities when he said:   . . intelligence assessment is no simple or routine activity but a highly skilled and subtle task. I must report that I saw little evidence in ASIO that the qualities of mind and expertise needed were recognised, or available in any large measure. 
At page 236 of the report, paragraph 680 reads: 
There is evidence to show that ASIO has in the past provided selected people with security intelligence material for publication. The material provided was apparently drawn from information available in the public arena. It seems to have been ASIO's intention that the material be not attributed to it. A propaganda activity of this kind by ASIO is a misconceived enterprise. It crosses the boundary between provision of information, which is proper, and the taking of a  measure for security ', which is not proper. 
That illustrates the track record of ASIO. That is the organisation which this Government is asking us to have confidence in to define the activities of groups of people who might be guilty of promoting hatred against the Commonwealth. It is little wonder that we of the Opposition do not trust the objectivity of ASIO's agents when we look at that sort of material which has been written by the learned Justice Hope and, I add, the report on which this legislation is based. Throughout history man has abhorred the activities of the biased pimp, the lying informer, the intolerant fanatic who allows himself to be used as a weapon of the police state. Throughout history men of democracy, great writers and thinkers, men such as Cicero from ancient Rome, Jonathan Swift from England and Orwell of the twentieth century, all feared informers with the clearest of vision. 
I will quote Cicero because I know that it will be above your head. In the defence of the Roman republic, he once said: 
Even if these liberators and protectors of ours have withdrawn from our sight, they have left behind them the example of their deeds. 
I think that that is applicable to ASIO of Australia in the twentieth century. We cannot trust these people in ASIO to make subjective definitions of a word such as 'hatred'. It is far too broad. That word ought to be removed from clause 5 ( 1) (c). 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the public disquiet over suggestions of growing instability within the Government? Does he agree - 
Government members- Oh! 
-Last year's Budget featured a number of spectacular and vicious attacks on wage and salary earners and pensioners in this country. This year the attacks have been slower and more insidious. We can expect even worse results from the disease of deliberate contraction of the economy. This year the Government avoided the mistakes of last year such as the vicious tax on newsboys and the starving of pensioners because of its refusal to increase pensions on a half-yearly basis. But perhaps this year's Budget pill inexorably will become more bitter as the contractionary effects of this Budget become obvious. These contractionary effects will be caused by a number of deliberate economic policies. I refer to the cut in the domestic deficit of a massive $ 1,400m, the cut in Government and specific purpose grants to the States and the real increase in income taxes over the next 12 months which will be managed under the cloak of the alleged removal of the 2.5c in the dollar but not until 1 December. Then there is the imposition of selective indirect taxes to the massive extent of $3 billion via the oil excise levy and the petrol tax at the pump, the final burial of Medibank and, finally, the erosion of real wages and family living standards. All of this will lead inevitably to further unemployment. 
The Treasury admits that an extra 60,000 persons will lose their jobs this year as a result of the Budget. The Department of Employment and Youth Affairs admits that this is likely to continue over the next five years. What a great prospect that is for this country! It is clear that amongst the employed no one really thinks that he or she will be next to become unemployed, but try telling that to the 400,000-odd people who are currently unemployed and whose ranks are added to constantly, and not just by the unskilled or the semi-skilled. Professional people, university graduates and skilled workers are increasingly unable to obtain employment. 
Since the Budget inevitably leads to further unemployment there has been understandable conjecture that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  might want another early Federal election before this Budget takes effect. Perhaps the Prime Minister has been deterred by the recent fairly obvious vote of disaffection with early elections and perhaps he needs more time to intervene in order to patch up the coalition's squabbles in Queensland. What then can we expect? Can we expect another mini-Budget, perhaps in May of next year? This year there was a mini-Budget of broken promises and perhaps next year we shall have a mini-Budget of election carrots. Has the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  contracted Federal spending in August with a view to expanding the economy in May? After all, $500m could easily be regenerated from the domestic deficit and still leave an overall domestic deficit reduction of $900m? 
The estimated $2 billion plus to be derived from crude oil levies is based on the prices of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries as at July 1 979. Nothing is more certain than that there will be further increases. Honourable members must remember that for every 5 per cent OPEC increases its crude oil prices and they are injected into domestic crude oil prices the Government stands to make another $300m. The next point I would like to make is that company tax receipts have been very conservatively estimated at $3,280m. They will be at least 10 per cent higher than that. Perhaps another $300m can be expected from that in Federal revenue. All of that adds up to some thing like $ 1,000m. Perhaps we can expect either full or half tax indexation to be paid in retrospect next year, instead of right now, as a means of effecting recovery and increasing demand to create jobs; and perhaps this will happen next year just before the Federal election. 
I believe that the machiavellian tactics of the Prime Minister and the Treasurer are obvious. They are as reprehensible as their previous broken promises on tax indexation, to preserve Medibank and to provide jobs for all who want to work, to name just three areas. This strategy of contracting the economy now as a deliberate means of delaying economic expansion until next year means that the Government will coldly increase unemployment by 70,000 people to 100,000 people. The Government has exchanged the possibility of immediate job creation for the possibility of electoral enticements next year. 
This Budget also makes it very clear that the economic relics from an outmoded era, now in control of Treasury, are also in full control of this Government. Those people are bereft of ideas, except to apply the discredited policies of the 1930s to the problems of the 1980s. Treasury has collected all the extra revenue that I have mentioned. It has collected an increase of $2.3 billion- 1 8 per cent increase- in personal income taxes. Selective taxes have raised $3 billion on oil and petrol sales. Those taxes are in the main attacks on motorists. Has the Government used the extra revenue to expand or create jobs? No, it has not. The Government has retained the extra revenue to contract economic activity in this country. 
A prime example is the cutback in payments to the States for capital works. At a time like this- a time of recession- we ought to be spending money on capital works to provide the industrial and social infrastructure for future generations and to provide jobs for the current generation. But this year we have seen a cut in the general purpose capital grants to the States of 1 3 per cent in monetary terms and 2 1 per cent in real terms. We have seen a monetary cut of 5 per cent for specific purpose grants, which in real terms is a cut of 13 per cent. The sum of $72. 5m has been lopped off the specific purpose grants to the States. 
The worst example of cuts in expenditure occurred in the area of welfare housing. This year only $260m has been made available, as against the $335m made available to the States last year. That is a 30 per cent cut in real terms compared with the appropriation in the last year of office of the Labor Administration. In 1 975, $384m was made available. Since then there has been a 41 per cent increase in the consumer price index. The sum of $560m-odd would be needed this year to maintain that expenditure in real terms. Instead, only $2 60m has been appropriated, which represents a cut of over 1 00 per cent in real terms. This is at a time when there are 73,000 applicants on the waiting lists for housing commission accommodation throughout Australia and 250,000 people living in caravan parks. Under the Labor Administration 6,000 dwellings were completed in New South Wales in 1974. Under this Government only 1,100 dwellings were completed there last year. There is little wonder that 71,000 building workers have lost their jobs in the housing industry throughout Australia since May 1975. 
These cutbacks lead to further unemployment. Having caused that unemployment the Government unashamedly seeks to hide the effects of its economic policy. This is the reason why the Government wants to suppress the Commonwealth Employment Service's figures on unemployment. I understand that today those figures are 397,000, compared with the figures that the Australian Bureau of Statistics produced a few weeks ago showing that 3 1 5,000 people are seeking full time employment. The Government still refuses to issue these figures simultaneously. It stopped issuing those figures simultaneously with the Australian Bureau of Statistics figures several months ago. The position now is that the media, interested parties and the Opposition have to request these figures. Why is this? The obvious answer is because the ABS figures are consistently 80,000 fewer than the CES figures. The worst feature of the current unemployment is the youth unemployment, particularly the rise in young unemployed females. The figures released today show an increase of 1 1 ,000 over the corresponding month of last year. In Wollongong, which is my own electorate, the number of females under 20 years of age who are unemployed has risen from 1,370 in August last year to 1,565 this year. So much for the claims of this 
Government that it is improving employment opportunities throughout this country. 
Let me suggest some immediate measures that this Government must take. It should lift the means test threshold for unemployed people from $6 to the $20 and $34 a week, that applies to single and married pensioners respectively. The Government ought to issue health cards to the unemployed. The Government must immediately index unemployment benefits that are payable to the unemployed who are without dependants. It should replace the Special Youth Employment Training Program with a scheme of subsidisation to employers who increase their net labour force. 
I turn now to the question of cuts in wages and living standards. The Budget implies that there has been a 2 per cent cut over last year and this year in real wages. I suggest that it has been much more than that. In December 1975 nonmanagerial workers averaged $152 a week. In June 1 979 they averaged $2 1 1 a week. There has been a conservative loss of $14 a week as a result of full wage indexation not applying over that period. To that loss we can add the real loss in family allowance payments. At present family allowances are the same as they were when they replaced concessional taxation rebates for children back in 1976-77. Then they stood at $3.50 for the first child, $5 for the second, $6 for the third and $6 for the fourth. If half-yearly indexation had been applied, as it ought to have been, to those family allowances they would have risen, respectively, by $ 1 . 1 0, $ 1 .60, $2 and $2. So a family with three children is losing $4.70 a week because of this Government's failure to index family allowances and a family with four children is losing $6.70 a week. 
In the field of taxation, as a result of the latest tax mix, a family with an income of $12,000 a year is paying $322 a year more in taxation, or $6 a week, as a result of the failure to implement full tax indexation and the failure to remove the surcharge of 2.5 cents in the dollar until 1 December. No wonder wage and salary earners have refused to accept this Government's offer of partial wage indexation; that is, indexation discounted for the effects of government economic decisions. The Government, through its Minister, says that this offer would amount to 80 per cent wage indexation. That is incorrect. It would be lucky to be 65 per cent indexation. In view of the losses that have already occurred in real wages, family allowances and taxation, it is not surprising that the trade union movement has knocked back what amounts to only a con trick upon the wage and salary earners of this country. 
I turn in conclusion to the Government's failure on energy policy. The truth is that this Government has no energy policy except to use petroleum products as revenue raisers. It is no wonder that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  refers to every petrol bowser as a taxation office under this Government. There is no need for Australia to use Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries price rises as a means of raising revenue. One can say that OPEC gets the blame and the Prime Minister and the Treasurer take the money- to the extent of $3,000m. I refer also to the lack of a national gas policy. Only 3.5 trillion cubic feet of gas is in the Cooper Basin in current known reserves. That is enough to supply New South Wales and South Australia until 1987 and 2006 respectively. It is possible that as much gas again is in the Cooper Basin. On the North West Shelf there is 1 7 trillion cubic feet of gas. It is essential that we cut back proposed exports from there by at least one-third. 
-This legislation is provocative; it is vicious; it is antiworker and it is anti-union. In recent weeks the Government has given the impression that it wants to keep the excesses of the Western Australian and Queensland governments at arm's length. It has not really wanted to get too close to these people in Queensland and Western Australia, with their excessive measures such as those involved in the public assembly dispute in Western Australia and the essential services legislation in Queensland. However, the reality is that this legislation is just as much part of that same arsenal of weapons against trade unionists and wage and salary earners in Australia as those pieces of legislation in Western Australia and Queensland. What is more, the Government has followed this approach for the last two years. 
If one looks at the track record of this Government in industrial relations one finds that in October 1977 the amendments to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, otherwise known as the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation, introduced measures providing for the deregistration of a union, the seizing of union property and funds, fines on officers and rank and file trade unionists, suspension from office of union officers and the debarring of members of unions from standing for election to any position, full or part time. They were the main measures contained in the 1977 amendments. 
I move on to the amendment to section 45 D of the Trade Practices Act which was introduced at about this time last year. It provided for a fine of $250,000 for unions engaging in so-called secondary boycotts. This record continued. In the last session of Parliament, we had the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill. This Bill provided for redeployment or the transfer and sacking of public servants under the euphemism of compulsory retirement if they become surplus to this Government's needs. The Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act was another part of this same arsenal. It provides for the standing down of Commonwealth employees who do not perform exactly as required. For instance, the CEEP Act provides that employees could be stood down in the event of their not performing work in a manner in which it is customarily performed or if they adopt a work practice the result of which is to restrict, limit or delay the performance of work. 
Let us look at how State legislation in Queensland and Western Australia has fitted into this situation. The Queensland essential services legislation, which obviously is condoned by this Government, provides for the emasculation of unions, the encouragement of scab labour against unions, the sacking of employees who go on strike. In other cases it forces people to work in so-called essential services industries. It provides for the imposition of massive fines, the deregistration of unions, the refusal of compensation to workers and the prohibition of employer-employee agreements based upon negotiation and conciliation. It also allows union property to be sold off for the payment of fines imposed under the legislation. It is interesting to note that that legislation was introduced by one  Mr Hinze,  the Queensland Minister for Local Government and Main Roads. This is the very same Minister who has been accused by his own Government members of rezoning land on Queensland 's Gold Coast against the wishes of the local council in exchange for substantial gifts to the National Country Party in Queensland. That is the type of person, I want honourable members opposite to understand, who introduces anti-worker legislation against the labour movement of this country. 
-I think he must have. I do not think Bjelke-Petersen is too pleased with him. The last of this fair minded package of Commonwealth and State legislation is the latest interpretation of the legislation on illegal street offences in public places, or whatever it is, in Western Australia. Under it some local police constable can take it on himself to determine whether union leaders, trade unionists and workers will be allowed to conduct a meeting to discuss their affairs. We have seen the introduction of all this legislation in the last two years. Because the Commonwealth legislation over that period has not been doing the job and has not been sufficiently authoritarian and draconian for the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and this Government they seek to introduce further legislation. I will deal with this legislation later in my speech. I point out that the whole purpose of all these provocative measures that I have just enunciated has been to reduce the wage and salary earners' capacity to fight against the reduction of living standards and rising unemployment that have been forced upon them by this Government. This Government wants to force workers to accept the blame for the current depression in Australia and to make them think that they are to blame for unemployment and that it is necessary for them to accept reduced living standards to effect economic recovery. 
For the edification of honourable members opposite let me briefly summarise the real reasons for the depression. They are not the wage increases which have been granted to Australian workers, meagre and insufficient as they have been, to compensate for rises in the consumer price index over the last four years. The real reasons for the current depression are: firstly, cuts in capital expenditure as effected by this Government and its complete failure to implement an economic policy. The second major reason is the industrial development which has transpired in South East Asia over the last decade and longer under the umbrella of low wages, generally enforced by military dictatorships, and tax concessions offered to multinational companies that site their operations there. The third major reason has been the complete inability of the Australian capitalist economy to implement technological change without corresponding massive unemployment. 
Let me slowly and carefully explain so that the Minister will understand why Australians are resisting him and why there is industrial disputation in Australia today. The real answer is not to introduce draconian, authoritarian legislation of this sort. There has been a rapid decline in the value of real wages in Australia. In 1975 the nonmanagerial average wage was $152 a week. Had the consumer price index increase been applied cumulatively, today the average wage would be $225 a week. The average is now $21 1 a week, which of course is a loss of $ 1 4. 
Let me have a look at why the members of the Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia in my electorate are constantly in dispute with their employers, the Australian Iron and Steel Pty, which is a subsidiary of Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd and which recently announced record profits. The base rate for an ironworker is $76.20 a week. The minimum margin is $59.50 and the average overaward payment is $35. That adds up to $170.70 a week- a magnificent remuneration for 40 hours of solid, heavy, onerous work in the steel industry. 
-I said that the base was $76.20, to which a margin and an overaward payment are added to total $170.70 a week. Let me look at what Telecom Australia workers are earning. I took the trouble today to phone the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association and I was told that a process worker with Telecom averages between $154 and $160 a week and the technicians average $188 to $230. These are Hong Kong wages that the Government approves for payment by one of its instrumentalities- Telecom. I do not hear the people who are attacking these workershonourable members opposite complaining, that they are being overpaid when they receive $37,000 a year. I would think that some of them are being overpaid. Look at the wages of the Governor-General, the person who is to be allowed, in the name of this Government, to deregister trade unions when this legislation becomes law. He gets $60,000, $70,000 or $80,000 a year or more. 
Let me refer to some of the other measures which are forcing the workers of this country into disputation. As a result of the taxation measures in the last Budget a worker earning $10,000 a year will be over $5 a week worse off than he was last year. Family allowances have not been indexed for three years. As a result, a family with three children has lost $4.70 a week. Look at the increases in petrol and oil taxes. No wonder workers are in disputation. The driver of a sixcylinder motor car will on average pay $8 a week more for a full tank of petrol. In 1975 workers were covered for health insurance under Labor's Medibank scheme. The average family will now pay $9 a week for hospital and medical insurance. All that adds up to workers being over $30 a week worse off in real terms than they were four years ago. Living standards are falling and that is the reason there is disputation in this country. We need not sledge-hammer tactics but an understanding of the hopes and aspirations of the Australian workers and a realisation that they are not prepared to stand by and see their living standards deteriorate. 
I turn now to the measures in this Bill. I will deal with them one by one. In the words of the Minister, proposed new section 22A requires a commissioner to consult with his  deputy president  before making or varying an award relating to wages and conditions. What is meant by the word 'consult*? Does it mean that the  deputy president  has to approve whatever has been decided? The intention of the Government in regard to proposed new section 22A is perfectly obvious. The Minister wants to prevent wage judgments by the Commission which do not suit this Government. In effect, the Government wishes to control the Commission by dictating wage policy to the  President.  The Government has decided that the decisions of each commissioner must be referred to the  President  for approval or otherwise. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting, I was saying that in effect this Government, through the use of proposed new section 22A, wishes to control the Commission by dictating wage policy to the  President  of the Commission. At every national wage case hearing since 1975, this Government has opposed indexation. It has whinged and whined at every partial increase granted by the Commission. It has used arguments about excessive wage overhang and noncompliance with the guidelines by the unions. On most occasions it has been successful in getting less than full indexation granted, but now it seeks to go further and control the wage policy of the Commission itself by legislating so that commissioners have to refer their decisions to the  President  of the Commission before ratification. 
I turn now to what I consider to be the most iniquitous section of the legislation, that is, proposed new section 143 A which provides that the Minister may request that the Full Bench declare that a union is in breach of the legislation. The Full Bench may then decide that the Governor-General may, within a six-month period, order the deregistration of the union concerned. In lieu of or before ordering the deregistration he may suspend any of the rights, privileges or capacities of the union or of all or any of its members under the Act or any award, give directions as to the exercise of any rights, privileges or capacities that have been so suspended, and provide for restricting the use of the funds or property of the union or branch and for the control of those funds or that property for the purpose of ensuring observance of the restrictions. 
The fact is that the Governor-General may, at any time within the next six months after that declaration is made, decide that the union in question ought to be deregistered and may later decide under what condition the union should be reregistered. The Minister also said in his second reading speech that deregistration need not necessarily follow a declaration. What he is saying is that after a declaration, if the union and the unionists become good boys and behave themselves- in effect become tame cat unionsthey may not be deregistered. I ask honourable members: What union could accept that situation? If it did, it obviously could not represent its members. And the Government knows it! 
I deplore the use once more by this Government of the Governor-General as a political tool. It used him in 1975 to its utter disgrace in dismissing a government elected by the people. In 1 979 it is seeking to use him again to sack unions. What I want to know is whether the GovernorGeneral is a head of state or an arm of this Government. The Government is encouraging Australians once again to hold the office of Governor-General in contempt. It is quite certain that what the Government is doing will only hasten the day when Australia becomes a republic. There is no question about that. I ask the Government whether it has reflected upon the results of its actions in this legislation. Let us look at what could happen. We could seek a dispute in a vital essential service whereupon the Full Bench could make a declaration and the Governor-General could move in. We could see the deregistration of a union on the say-so of the Governor-General, in conjunction with the Government, and we could then see the Government take control of union property. That is a chilling scenario for absolute industrial disruption in this country. The Government is setting the scene coldly and deliberately. Such a course could be embarked on only by a government which is determined to cause the maximum industrial chaos. 
How can the Government seek to impose industrial peace by this archaic and repressive legislation? A herd of stampeding rhinoceroses would be more subtle. It will not work. It has never worked in the past. 
When has legislation of this nature ever solved a major industrial dispute? It has never solved anything. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Industrial Relations know this; so what are their reasons for introducing the Bill? Let me list a few of them. There is the pressure from the more extreme right wing rabble of the coalition and the Government's understandable desire to divert public attention from its acute embarrassment regarding the honesty and probity of its ministry and its electoral splits in Victoria and Queensland. There is also pressure from Court in Western Australia and Bjelke-Petersen in Queensland for the Federal coalition to support their own parochial brand of extremism as in the public illegal assemblies dispute in Western Australia and the Essential Services Act in Queensland. The Prime Minister and the Minister should be more circumspect about stomping on the industrial scene. 
They are again making the mistake of becoming locked into defending the indefensible, as they were quite recently, you will remember,  Mr Speaker.  But this crowd of union baiters are bankrupt of economic and industrial policy and that is the reason for this legislation. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ian  Robinson) adjourned. 
I will be very brief because I know that other people want to speak. The point I make is that this clause assumes that employers are never wrong. Of course they are. In 1978 some 25.6 per cent of disputes are on the record as being caused by managerial policy. I believe that the most important area in which this clause is at fault is that of industrial safety. In New South Wales the Department of Labour and Industry on a State level controls industry regulations. It is possible that employers could order employees to participate in unsafe practices which could cause injury or death. If the employees stopped work that action could be construed as going on strike. The DL could be called in and could rule in the employees' favour but because they were classified as being on strike they would not be able to be paid. Is that the position? I would like the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to answer that question. 
We could take this matter further into areas of Commonwealth responsibility such as the stevedoring industry in which there is always a problem with regard to unsafe working practices. The common position is that when the men stop work a navigation officer under the Commonwealth powers intervenes and rules either in favour of the employees or against them. Under this legislation those men could be considered as having been on strike. Even if they were proved right by either DLI inspectors or Commonwealth navigation inspectors and were given a favourable decision, under this legislation it is very likely that they would not be entitled to be paid for the time that they stopped work. That is clearly wrong. The Government has obviously not thought through the full ramifications of this clause. They will be most clearly felt in the area of industrial safety. 
-I refer the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to an explanation he gave on 30 August this year in which he said that migrants coming to Australia fell into four categories- family reunion, refugees, those entering by virtue of the Tasman agreement and persons who were selected because of their occupational skills. The Minister will recall saying that those in the last group are selected in areas where there is a strong and continuing demand for their labour skills in Australia. In view of the high unemployment level amongst recently arrived migrants, will the Minister confirm that, under the Numerical Multifactor Assessment System selection process, persons who fall into this last migrant category are still being selected primarily because of labour market demand for their skills? 
-I draw the attention of the Prime Minister to his statement yesterday: 
If there are one or two that object to the amendments to the Arbitration Act, it is not the view of the Government. 
Does he regard the views of a past  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, a presidential member, and the 25 commissioners as being of no consequence? Will he now instruct the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Minister for Industrial Relations to withdraw the much criticised legislation and consult with the full Commission and the Australian Council of Trade Unions? 
-With regard to clause 8 of the Bill and the amendment proposed by the Opposition, how is the Parliament to be responsible for its own creation when the Director-General virtually will have absolute control and total power with no public accountability to the Federal Parliament? In summary, clause 8 provides that the Minister is not empowered to override the opinion of the Director-General on whether the collection of intelligence by the Organisation concerning a particular individual would or would not be justified by reason of its relevance to security, on the question of whether the communication of intelligence concerning a particular individual would be for a purpose relevant to security or concerning the nature of the advice that should be given by the organisation to a Minister, department or authority of the Commonwealth. I find it extremely demeaning and obnoxious in a supposedly free democracy that an appointed director-general has the final determination over which information on what person or organisation may be provided to an elected parliament. 
In effect, the servant has become the master and we, the elected representatives of the people, must accept without question the opinion of one all-powerful public servant. There is no question about this fact. The Government is very silly and very trite if it believes that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, despite its antidemocratic track record, is going to be a better judge of national security and the people's democratic rights than those who have been elected to serve the national interest. Clause 8 (2) (a), for example, shows that neither the Attorney-General nor indeed the Prime Minister can instruct ASIO or its agents to stop spying even on them or on any Minister or member of this Parliament. Under this clause neither the Prime Minister nor the Attorney-General is entitled to ask whether any file exists, and if a file does exist they are not entitled to say: 'Cease placing the Prime Minister of this country under surveillance.' Neither the Prime Minister nor the responsible Minister is entitled to give advice to the Director-General that certain information should not be provided to any government department or authority or, indeed, to any overseas agency. Does this clause really mean that if the Director-General so decides he can give secret information gathered by ASIO on the highest personages in the government of this country to. an overseas agency? Is that what this clause really means? 
Clause 8 (2) (b) means really that ASIO can collect information on anyone and really make its own decisions. A close look at that paragraph shows that ASIO can release information to whom it pleases. Is it true that ASIO would be able to release information- against the advice of the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General and the Government- to overseas intelligence agencies such as the Central Intelligence Agency or the Bureau of State Security or any other national intelligence agency overseas? A proper discussion of clause 8 (2) (b), as the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  pointed out, has to take into account the way in which such information can be gathered. 
If we look at clauses 25, 26 and 27- they are relevant to clause 8(2) (b)- we will see that they provide for the power to enter into and search premises, examine records, make copies of transcripts, use listening devices or bugs to record words spoken by another person and to open mail and inspect telegrams. When we look at the justification for these activities we find that the Minister shall not issue a warrant unless he is satisfied that, in the case of clause 25, the premises have recently been occupied or used for activities constituting or in preparation for domestic subversion. In the case of clause 26- all of this is relevant to clause 8 and the way in which the Organisation collects its information- the Minister may authorise the use of listening devices if he is satisfied that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation might be listening to a person engaged in or reasonably suspected of being likely to engage in activities prejudicial to security. 
In the case of clause 27 mail and telegrams can be inspected if it is suspected that they will be received by a person reasonably suspected of being likely to engage in activities prejudicial to security. 
One notes the use of sheer cloudy generalities such as 'preparation for domestic subversion' likely to engage in activities prejudicial to security' and 'reasonably suspected of being engaged in'. They are all fine phrases in the best Orwellian. tradition to mask intrusion into just about anything that ASIO desires. This is the way in which ASIO can collect information about members of parliament, the Ministry and even the Prime Minister. I object to this craven abrogation of responsibility that is outlined in clause 8 to representatives appointed over the heads of the elected people who are supposed to represent the people of this country. 
If honourable members look at the Hope report, on which this Australian Security Intelligence Organization Amendment Bill was supposed to have been based, they will see that  Mr Justice  Hope contradicts himself. He expects to see reform from within under the auspices of a paternalistic benevolent Director-General. I say that honourable members should beware of the all-powerful spy bosses because they may be paternalistic now but there is no guarantee that they will not become authoritarian at a later date. We may trust  Mr Justice  Woodward now. Is there anything to say that  Mr Justice  Woodward will always be the same person that he was when he was appointed? There is an old saying that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely.  Mr Justice  Woodward could be as susceptible to that old saying as any other human being. He will not live forever and sooner or later we will appoint another Director-General. 
In consultation perhaps, but what guarantees have we that that person will always act within the parameters of the way he is expected to act? I said that  Mr Justice  Hope was contradicting himself. 
It is obvious that the Government did not follow to the letter the recommendations of the Hope report. The fourth report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security, volume I at page 181, paragraph 373, states: 
The Director-General needs, and should have, guidance and indeed direction from those who are in a position to give it. This situation has been exacerbated by limits to ASIO's resources; these have restricted what it can do. But, regardless of resources, it is a problem inherent in the nature of national security functions. 
On the next page paragraph 374 states: 
The nature of these problems and of the issues involved strongly support the view taken in the past that general security policy is a matter for the Prime Minister. It is an attitude that is common to many countries with whom we share the Westminster system of government. I shall recommend that this view should be adhered to in the future, and that any statutory independence of the Director-General should not preclude the Prime Minister from giving ASIO general policy directions and guidance. 
Why has the Government not followed this particular advice in the Hope report. It is perfectly obvious in these matters that  Mr Justice  Hope expected that the Executive arm of government should have the final control over the DirectorGeneral. That is the way it ought to be in any democratic society. 
I will be quite brief on my comments. I point out to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  what I think is an anomaly between these different clauses. I refer very quickly in passing to clause 8 (2) (a) of the Bill which allows the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to place Ministers of the Crown, even the Prime Minister or the AttorneyGeneral, under surveillance. I argue that that is very bad. Unless the Government accepts this amendment to clause 8 the situation will be even worse because it will be denying those Ministers of the Crown knowledge that files on their activities exist. The Government is compounding the offence against the Minister. 
The Government should accept the amendment, which after all is a very mild one and which gives the Minister access to all records of the Organisation subject to certain qualifications set out towards the end of the amendment. The amendment provides that the Minister shall not be afforded access to the record of a particular individual unless the Director-General considers that it is in the interests of security that the Minister should have such access. It seems to me that one could not want for anything milder than that, because it really gives the Director-General power to rule on virtually any file the contents of which it is in the interests of security should not be revealed. I cannot see what the Minister is worried about because this is quite a mild amendment and it should be acceptable to the Government. 
If honourable members look further ahead to clauses 5 1 and onwards of the Bill, it will be seen that they provide for the establishment of a review tribunal. Commonwealth servants who have been the subject of an adverse report and on whom a file exists are entitled to know the existence of that file and are entitled to argue their case before the tribunal. So on one hand this Bill allows certain people outside this Parliament to be told that a file exists on them in certain circumstances, such as if they are not backed for a Commonwealth job, but on the other hand a Minister of the Crown is not entitled- unless the Government accepts this amendment- to be told that a file on him exists. I would like the Minister and perhaps the honourable gentlemen opposite to explain that anomaly to me as they have had so much to say in criticising Opposition members who are trying to do something constructive about the Bill. They might care to comment on that matter. Do they rate themselves so low that they believe that as elected representatives of the people, even if they become Ministers of the Crown, Attorneys-General, or Prime Ministers, they are not entitled to know that an appointed public servant has taken it upon himself to place them under surveillance and to construct a file on them? 
It is perfectly obvious from listening to the lame speech of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  that he has at least found his own level of incompetence in this place. He is obviously determined to brazen out the serious charges outlined against him and his colleague, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  by my colleague, the shadow minister for employment. There is no question that there has been a huge cover-up in this Parliament involving the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs and the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to obscure differences of opinion between the departments and their Ministers as to the effects of independent immigration under the Numerical Multifactor Assessment System. These Ministers stand condemned by the words of the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs. It has been stated: 'Either the policy is not being implemented as the Government intended, or the advice on its effect is misleading.' Those words come from the highest possible administrative level of the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs. Those words are a damning indictment of these two Ministers. They have misled the Parliament and the Australian people in a web of duplicity. The document from which I have quoted, which is available, spells out the mish mash of incompetent strategies that the Government has perpetrated upon the Australian work force, including migrants. 
Let me trace the history of this massive con job that the Ministers have tried to pull. We all know that until 1 January immigration policy covered these categories: Family reunion, special family reunion, refugees, persons freely granted residence because of the Tasman agreement, and the general eligibility provision wherein independent new migrants were selected mainly by relating their skills to the Australian 1 mainly abour market. The last category involved approximately 44 per cent of migrants before NUMAS commenced on 1 January this year. Before then this category was controlled through an approved list of occupations and an employer nomination system. The category of firm job offers, although given five points on the NUMAS system, has, I understand, been surreptitiously eliminated. The approval list was the real criterion for entry in the independent category. It covered about 200 occupations and was compiled and updated quarterly. It seemed that the policy for independent arrivals was that entry be granted when potential migrant skills were in demand. That was prior to the introduction of NUMAS on 1 January. 
We then moved to a system of determination of independent arrivals. They were assessed under two tables: Firstly, economic factors, totalling SO points, and, secondly, personal and settlement factors, totalling 50 points. I note that the two categories- transferable assets to assist in settlement and economic viability- totalled 1 1 points between them. That simply means that how much money they had accounted for 1 1 points out of 50. Yet occupational demand attracted only 14 points. That is how much it has been downgraded as compared with the situation before 1 January. Given that there has been a significant change, it is proper to ask what the attitude of the other department involved was, the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs, and whether the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs worked in unity to implement this new program. Did the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs offer advice to both Ministers, for instance? 
Let me tell honourable members of some of the advice that was offered to those two Ministers, particularly the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. We challenge him to come into the chamber and listen to what we had to say and answer the criticisms. This is what the Department was saying: 
This points system, to be called NUMAS, was developed and then tested overseas during 1978. We were consulted about its development, but I believe it is not unfair to say that almost all our large number of suggestions about NUMAS were rejected - 
This comes from the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs: 
The critical issue for us was the weight to be given to the various factors determining eligbility for entry under NUMAS, and particularly to labour market demand, and also to the final score which would qualify for entry. We were far from satisfied with the final decisions and the former Secretary wrote to the Secretary of Immigration in August 1978 setting out our objections. 
It seemed to us at that time (and it has become apparent) that the labour market priority for entry was weakened by mixing non-occupational characteristics (eg age, assets, language) with occupational factors. 
As to the Cabinet decision on NUMAS- this is particularly important because it goes to the very highest Cabinet level- the Department says: 
Before we received any response to our problems on NUMAS, Cabinet decided that NUMAS should go ahead. The Cabinet Decision approving NUMAS is, to say the least, unclear on the Government's intentions in regard to the influence which labour market factors are to have on selection. 
I with my equivalent in the Immigration Department following the Cabinet Decision to clarify the procedure for operation of NUMAS. I raised our concern about the relegation and diffusion of the labour market criteria for selection and, to my surprise, he acknowledged that my view was correct. 
On becoming aware of the bickering, disagreements and apparent inability of the two departments to work together I decided actively to seek further information and question the Ministers involved. I examined documents previously made public by the Ministers and the opinion of the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs, and questioned the Ministers in the Estimates Committee and in the House. The sum total of this exercise explains attempts by these two Ministers to mislead the Estimates Committee and the House of Representatives in attempts to cover up the differences in their departments over NUMAS and the way it has exacerbated unemployment and confused the general labour market situation. One certain result of this has been the obvious disruption of any meagre manpower planning that might be attempted by the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs. First of all, this is what the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs thinks about the activities of the Minister for Immigration. That Department said to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs: 
What troubles us is that representations of that kind are being answered by your colleague and officers of his Department as though nothing had changed with regard to the labour market influence on selection decisions. Either the policy is not being implemented as the Government intended or the advice on its effect is misleading. 
That is what that Department said to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. My colleague, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  has informed the House what the Minister said on the ABC program  PM.  It is the same old story. The Minister was misleading the nation by saying that nothing had really changed in this regard. I questioned him in the House on 1 1 October as to whether anything had changed. The Minister said: 
What we are seeking to do is to have a selection system which brings to Australia migrants who are most capable of settling in successfully and playing a real role in the development of this country. We need to have flexibility in the assessment - 
All the Minister was saying was a deliberate attempt to obscure the situation. He would not give us a precise answer- and he talks about flexibility while there is economic disaster abroad in the country. There will be 60,000 extra unemployed next year, according to the Budget. There will be at least 550,000 unemployed by February. Inflation is running at a rate of 10 per cent. Migrant unemployment among new arrivals in August 1973 was 4.5 per cent and in August 1 979 it was over 1 7 per cent. 
Let me in the limited time available to me quickly show how the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs has misled the House also. I asked him in the Estimates Committee on 27 September: 
Has there been any improvement in matching migrants with jobs under the NUMAS system? 
He said: 
You would need to ask the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs that question. 
I said: 
But why? Surely it is a matter for Employment? 
He said: 
I would like to speak firstly about the two amendments that have been moved by the Opposition with regard to implementing twice-yearly indexation of benefits for the unemployed without dependants and the necessity for an increase in the unemployment benefit for those under 18 years of age. I will also raise several other matters. For the last two years the unemployment benefit payable to those people without dependants has been pegged. That is a gross injustice. It means that those people are expected to live on a level of income that is well below the Henderson poverty line. Because of this Government's action in freezing the benefits payable to them for the last two years, people under 18 years of age without dependants have been robbed of $6.45 a week. If the rises in the consumer price index over the last two years had been applied to the ridiculously low benefit of $36 paid to people under 18 years of age they would currently be receiving $42.45 a week. Those over 18 have been robbed of $6 per week. There is an absolute case for raising immediately the benefits paid to people without dependants. 
I now refer to the injustice in the means test threshold applied to all people receiving unemployment benefit. The income threshold for the purposes of paying an age pension to people under 70 years of age has been pegged since 1972. For single aged pensioners it is currently $20 a week and for married couples it is $34.50 a week. The unemployed person and his family are subject to a means test threshold of $6 a week. The threshold for age pensioners is bad enough. It has not been increased since 1972. Since December 1975 the consumer price index has risen by over 40 per cent; yet that threshold has not been increased. So pensioners are badly off with regard to the means test threshold, but what about the unemployed people? Every dollar earned over $6 a week, earned perhaps in a part time job by a wife or husband, results in a direct reduction of benefit. That is completely wrong. It proves a positive disincentive to the unemployed to look for part time work. 
A 20-year-old person without dependants receives a benefit which is pegged at $51.45 a week. Every dollar over $6 a week which he or she earns they lose $ 1 from their benefit. There is a direct reduction. Let me take the case of a 45- year-old middle aged man, living alone, who is subject to all the cost pressures of this inflationary society. If he earns an extra $35 a week, all he gets from it is $6 a week. He ought to get $57.45 plus $35 and even then he would get only $92.80 a week, which is still below the poverty line in this day and age. But this Government wants to rob him of $29 of the meagre $35 extra which he earns each week. How can the Government justify that? It is absolutely ridiculous. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  was pushing the old line of 'let them go out and look for work'. If he wants people to look for part time work which might be available to supplement the meagre, pegged, frozen benefit it would be a good idea for the Government to lift the $6 a week threshold for unemployed people to at least the level that prevails for pensioners and that is bad enough. It has not been altered for seven years. 
I turn to the effect of present health insurance upon the unemployed. Certainly the Government has raised the income threshold under which pensioner health benefit cards are issued from $33 a week for a single person to $57.50 a week and from $40 a week for a married couple to $68 a week. Of course, as we all know, these cards allow pensioners to receive free pharmaceuticals from chemists. They are able to produce their cards when they are seeking to be treated as pensioners by doctors or specialists who can bulk bill and receive 85 per cent of the service charge. But what happens with regard to the unemployed? They do not have health cards. The Government will not even provide them with identification slips. It expects them to identify themselves to medical practitioners as disadvantaged people and plead to be treated as a matter of charity. To illustrate the Government's line on this matter, I refer to a letter which I received today from the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  I had suggested that health benefit cards be issued to unemployed people. I said that perhaps identification butts could be added to the cheques which unemployed people receive. These could be torn off and presented to doctors as a means of identification when seeking medical treatment The Minister for Health said: 
It was decided not to do so bearing in mind the difficulties in precise definition and the probability that the specification in legislation of categories of disadvantaged persons could introduce rigid procedures which would be complex to administer. Such definitions might not be readily adaptable to changes in patients' circumstances. There was also the possibility that this could lead to interference in the patientpractitioner relationship. 
Because of the legislative difficulties the Government would face in the identification of persons as disadvantaged, it was decided to leave these decisions to the medical profession. This accorded with the concept that doctors had traditionally made judgements as to when the overall circumstances of a patient required some alleviation from the normal fee structure, and that doctors were in the best situation to make such a judgement. 
To me that letter reads like something out of the nineteenth century, the age of the work house when unemployed people and the homeless were treated as a matter of charity. The Government is not concerned that, according to the Commonwealth Employment Service's figures, there are about 400,000 unemployed people, that that figure will probably be 550,000 next year, that probably a quarter of a million more unemployed people are not registered with the CES, and that probably about 650,000 or 700,000 people are now really unemployed. Government supporters say: 'Do not worry about them. Let them go along to their local good-natured doctor, get down on their hands and knees and say: "I am a disadvantaged, unemployed person. I do not have any identification. Unfortunately, I cashed my social security cheque the other daynow I am broke ".'.A person may be 500 miles from home looking for work. He may be unknown in the district The Government still expects him to say: 'I am unemployed. I am a disadvantaged person. Will you please treat me because I am sick?' This Government has made no provision whatsoever for health insurance for the unemployed except to tell them to go along to their doctors and beg for charity. 
I have raised these three points. Let the Government now revert to twice-yearly indexation of benefits for the unemployed without dependants. Let there be an immediate increase in unemployment benefits for those under 18 years of age. Let the Government issue immediately some means of identification to the unemployed so that they can legitimately seek medical treatment in a dignified way and not as pleaders for charity. Let the means tested earnings of the unemployed, which are in addition to what they receive from the unemployment benefit, be lifted immediately from the present miserly $6 a week which applies to single aged pensioners to at least $20 a week. 
I take this opportunity to register my opposition to and revulsion at the provisions of clause 35 (4), which reads: 
if the Director-General is satisfied that the person's unemployment during that period was due to another person or other persons being, or having been, engaged in industrial action- that the first-mentioned person was not, during that period, a member of a trade union of which the other person was a member, or of which any one or more of the other persons was or were a member or members, during that period. 
It is necessary to look at the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which were passed last week, in order to understand the full intent of the words in clause 35. This clause is of particular relevance to proposed new section 33A of the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill, which provides for the expeditious hearing of stand-down applications either before a single member of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or the Full Bench. The provisions in proposed new section 33 A of the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill and the provisions in clause 35 of the Social Services Amendment Bill have to be looked at in conjunction with each other. It is obvious that the Government's plan is to expedite the standing down of workers who, through no fault of their own, may be affected by a dispute and then to deny them eligibility for unemployment benefit in order to starve them and their families into submission. If the Government wished to select an issue on which to create industrial confrontation- I believe that that is its snide, ulterior motive in this instance- it could not have selected a more certain means of doing so than expediting the standing down of workers and unionists and then denying them and their families sustenance in the form of unemployment benefit. The denial of unemployment benefit to these people is certain to create industrial disruption. It will inflict industrial hardship on the whole community. The Government is taking this action in an attempt to control wage and salary increases by the use of industrial hostages. 
The trade unionists who may be affected by clause 35 will be aware of the reason why the Government is attacking them and their colleagues. They will know that their fellow trade unionists are fighting to maintain their living standards. They also will know that these same workers have seen, as they themselves have seen, their real wage reduced by between $25 and $30 a week in the last four years. I am referring to the decline in real wages, the rise in health insurance contributions, the erosion of family allowances and so on. The Government should examine the root causes of industrial disputation and not seek to achieve industrial peace by the use of savage, repressive legislation of this type. 
Let me deal with the practicalities of this matter. We could see a situation arising under clause 35 in which a small number of workers in the flat product centre at the Australian Iron and Steel works at Port Kembla who belong to the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union go on strike. As a result of the workers in that area being on strike there could be stand-downs of members of the AMWSU in the motor vehicle industry in South Australia or Victoria. It could be argued that they should be stood down because no steel is available and that they should be denied the unemployment benefit. That is the sort of thing that could happen with the combination of new section 33a of one Act and clause 35 of this Bill. 
Let me give another hypothetical situation. Waterside workers employed at Australian National Line terminal in one Port could be stood down and denied unemployment benefits because their colleagues at another port are on strike over an issue which might have nothing to do with them. No doubt the next move of the Government would, be firstly, to effect standdowns and then, secondly, to deny the unemployment benefit to those people and their families along with members of other unions who may be affected by a strike or disputation. This would be the road to complete and utter industrial confrontation. Let us examine what happened in the container terminal dispute in Melbourne last year when a number of maintenance workers belonging to the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union were in dispute with the employer. For the first time members of the Waterside Workers Federation were stood down as a result of other men being out on strike. Until then it had been a small industrial dispute involving a few fitters and turners in a container terminal in Melbourne. The inevitable result was to convert that small dispute into a nationwide waterfront dispute. That is what happened as a result of the Government's stand-downs. Now the Government is going further. After having stood-down the workers and created the strike the Government wants to pour oil on the flames by denying unemployment benefits. 
I would have worked towards the real long term answer, and that is to create industry unions. The honourable member's Government has not even a policy on that. When some unions come out and try to say that the real answer to these small interminable demarcation disputes is to set up an industry union covering a whole industry, honourable members opposite oppose it simply because they do not wish to see unions becoming powerful. They are quite prepared to see multinational companies dominate the economy. But when a number of unions want to get together and form their own cartel to protect the interests of their own members, honourable members opposite oppose it. 
I submit, in conclusion, that this clause is unfair. It is aimed at creating hardship for workers and their families. It is aimed at creating industrial hostages to try to prevent other people from fighting to maintain their living standards. It is proposed in the vain hope of controlling disputation. It just will not work. All it will do is inflame confrontation. It will be unpopular. It will cause more industrial unrest than it will prevent. It ought to be withdrawn. It ought to be dropped in the interests of industrial harmony. 

 Wednesday, 24 October 1979 

-Like the motorists of Australia, I and the Opposition continue to be concerned with the passing on of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries' price increases to the price of Australian crude oil. It seems that the Government is determined to continue this folly. During the Estimates Committee B hearing relating to the Department of National Development I said to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman): 
The nations of Kuwait, Libya and Iran are foreshadowing rises of 10 per cent in the price of crude oil. 
Just listen to this. Later on I said to the Minister: 
Eventually Saudi Arabia and the other more moderate countries will agree to follow them up. 
I said: 
Are you determined to continue with this policy, regardless of how high OPEC price increases are in the future? 
The Minister said: 
The policy of the Government is to follow the OPEC market price, and I see no reason to change from that policy. 
-He went on to say: 
You asked also about the CPI effect. In fact l.S per cent was added to the last CPI by a rise of SO per cent. 
I said: 
A SO per cent increase means only a 1.5 per cent increase. 
The Minister said: 
It rose from $13.66 to $18.66, which is a 50 per cent rise and added 1.5 percent to the CPI. 
I relate that little anecdote so that honourable members will understand why the policy is so confused. It is because the Minister is most certainly confused. The price of crude oil in Australia rose by $5, to $18.66 from $13.66, on 1 July this year. That is a rise of 36 per cent, not 50 per cent as the Minister said the other night. It resulted in a 4c plus per litre increase in the price of petrol. I want the people of Australia to understand that. That resulted in at least a 1.5 per cent increase in the consumer price index. From 1 January this year oil has gone up on the Australian scene from $ 12.60 to $ 1 8.66. That is a rise of 48 per cent as a result of this Government's stupid policy. It has resulted in a  2XA  per cent increase in the consumer price index this calendar year. If honourable members want to go back 12 months to last September, it has resulted in a 2.8 per cent or 3 per cent increase in the CPI. Now, as the CPI has risen by 9.2 per cent in the last year, this means that over one-third of that- get that through your stupid head- has been as a result of rises in the price of petrol. 
-The Government boasts that this policy has extended the reserves. 
I will get on with my speech. I have a lot to say and he has nothing to say. The Government boasts that its policy has extended reserves of Australian crude oil. Before this policy Australia's crude oil reserves were approximately 2 billion barrels. It is true that now they are estimated at 2.4 billion barrels. That is a 400,000 barrel increase. That amount mainly comes from the fields in Bass Strait, Cobia, Kingfish and Fortescue. So that argument of the Government is entirely spurious. I would now like to examine briefly the result of the Government's policy on oil exploration. We see that it has been very meagre indeed. Under the McMahon Government in 1 97 1 there were 77 oil wells drilled in Australia. Under the Fraser Government in 1978- one year after this policy was implemented in 1977- there were only 52 wells drilled. I have a table which I seek to have incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910254_83_4.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. This year the position will not be much better with an estimated total of 83 to 140 oil wells being drilled. However, recent reports suggest that the actual exploration activity is likely to fall far short of these optimistic predictions. For example, only 23 exploration wells were drilled during the first half of this year compared with 22 in the same period in 1978. To put these figures into perspective, it should be remembered that over the four year period following the 1977 Budget as a result of these policies, Esso-BHP will receive a sum conservatively estimated at $ 1,450m as windfall revenue and West Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd will receive likewise over $180m of windfall profits. I note that these amounts are in addition to annual returns to producers of around $300m to EssoBHP and $30m to Wapet. 
I also draw the attention of the House to the extremely high level of revenue raised. That is the real reason why this Government has imposed the import parity pricing policy. In 1978-79, the Government received $ 1,190m from the oil excise duty and this financial year it expects to receive over $2 billion. It is obvious that when the Government renounced the value added tax some 12 months ago, this was the alternative tax imposed. It has been a more selective tax than a broad based consumer tax could possibly be. It has been directed at motorists and it has raised this tremendously high level of revenue. All major western industrial nations, except the United Kingdom, will continue to be importers of oil. It is the nations of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries that must make up this balance. Consequently, they will wield the accompanying economic power. They can be expected to minimise production to conserve their main export earner and at the same time maximise their prices. The only limits on this price will continue to be the capacity of the consumer nations to pay and the cost and availability of alternative liquid fuels to crude oil. What we cannot and must not do is abrogate power over Australian petrol and fuel prices to OPEC. OPEC will continue to act in its own best interests and not in our best interests. We must break that nexus now. 
In the short time remaining to me I want to deal with another foolish reply from the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  to questioning the other night. The shadow minister for urban affairs,  Mr Uren,  asked: 
Since you say you would give certain advice, does your Government now support the concept of atomic power stations in this country? 
The Minister replied: 
The position on atomic energy stations in Australia will depend on State decisions. It is up to the States to decide whether or not they will build reactors. 
That is an amazing answer. It does not consider the problems of waste disposal. It does not consider the problem of finally dismantling nuclear power stations. Nowhere in the world has a satisfactory result been found to this question. That leads me to the particular relevance that this question about which the shadow Minister for minerals and energy was speaking a moment ago has to Western Australia. I refer to the proposed North West Shelf development. We, as an Opposition, support exports of gas from that field. But we do not support exports to the proposed level of 75 per cent of the North Rankin Trend. I will give honourable members the figures on this matter. The total recoverable reserves are 245,000 million cubic metres. The daily production will be 41 million cubic metres. The exports are reckoned to be 31 million cubic metres a day and 10 million cubic metres only is to be directed to Western Australia. Firstly, if these figures are to be maintained for 20 years the reserves for North Rankin would need to be considerably more than 245,000 million cubic metres. Secondly, although the consortium consistently states in its reports that it proposes to export 53 per cent of the gas yield, in fact it will be exporting somewhere between 70 per cent and 75 per cent, depending upon the precise final consortium breakdown between domestic use and export requirements. There should be a reexamination of the export level to 4.4 million tonnes of liquefied natural gas a year, instead of the estimated 6.5 million tonnes. This would reduce exports by one-third and guarantee Western Australia an energy supply in the future. 
-The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  spent most of his time agreeing with the substance of the wording of our matter of public importance except in the last ditch violent attack on Medibank. I throw that attack back at him. I remind him of an interview with  Mr Jeff  Duncan on  PM  on 23 February 1 978. Jeff Duncan asked: 

 Mr Hunt how do you substantiate your claim that the health costs, spiralling health costs, are due to Medibank alone? 
The Minister said: 
I am not claiming that at all. I have never blamed Medibank as such for the great escalation in health costs. 
Later in the interview in relation to cost increases Jeff Duncan asked: 
Why is that because of Medibank? 
Again the Minister said: 
Well, I am not saying it is because of Medibank. 
Just what are we to believe from this Minister? He should resign immediately. Why does the Minister mislead the Parliament in the way that he just has when he goes into the public arena and says the opposite? Whoever said: 'Wealth cannot buy health' was not living in Australia in 1979. That is for sure. Working out how much wealth one needs to buy health is like predicting a Lotto winner and the chances of being a winner are at about the same odds. Our health system is now rotten to the core. The costly operations it has undergone- five changes in four years of government mendacity to be precise- have been aimed at killing public health insurance, not improving it. Just look at the tortuous changes under this Government. First, there was the imposition of the levy and the establishment of Medibank Private. Then there was the abolition of the levy and the introduction of a 40 per cent general subsidy for all services. Finally, there was the abolition of the 40 per cent single subsidy. The painful process was never part of the way along the long road to recovery. The scalpel is again poised for yet another incision. What has all this achieved? Has it given an efficient and improved health system providing the most benefit to the majority at the lowest cost? Not on your life. It has provided quite the reverse. 
None of the changes has benefited low and middle income earners, improved their health care or made health administration more efficient. Our health system is not the culmination of years of planning for a system of total health care. It is not a well-oiled machine running smoothly and caring for our needs. It is a nightmare of grossly inequitable and cumbersome bureaucracy. It is a gambler's nightmare- heads we lose; tails the Government wins. One can pay up to $17 a week- $884 a year- for comprehensive family insurance and trust that one gets one's money's worth. Under Medibank Private one can pay a basic package of $4 for 75 per cent medical cover, $5 for intermediate ward cover and $2.60 for extras, which represents a total of $11.60 a week or $603 per year, or one can gamble on one's health and hope that one does not get sick and have to face heavy medical bills. 
Private health funds are now offering a pick-a- box of enticing goodies to the unwary. A closer examination shows that the price is high and the returns are questionable. The private health funds are now competing to issue a great variety of colourful brochures, all espousing the cause of private health care and all aimed at getting the young and healthy out of the mainline medical table. There is a special plan for single girls which is cheaper insurance than the one for families. There is a special plan for 'single guys'. There is another plan called 'The Young Singles Plan'. At a cost of 50c a week a private health fund undertakes to register a person for the Commonwealth benefit. There is a plan called The Practical Singles Plan'. This must be for motorbike riders as I notice that there are a boy and girl riding a motorbike on the front of the brochure. That private health fund is offering insurance for $2.90 a week. Then we come to the The Growing Family Plan'. Under the Hospital Benefits Association, we find that a family is asked to pay $11.30 a week for basic cover. There we have it. That is the damage that is being done. As I said before to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  it is a bit like the 1 9th century peepshow rhyme: 'You pay your money and you take your pick'. 
The tragedy of it is that we now find that the friendly societies are also getting into the act; an act that the private health funds and the Minister helped to start. The Minister has been put in a position where he has to do something about that situation. I make the point that what the private health funds are doing is simply as a result of the policies that have gone before. Many people are simply opting out of health insurance altogether. They are simply doing their arithmetic and are coming up with all sorts of half-baked con-, elusions. In the end it might not do them any good, but that is what they are doing. They are doing their arithmetic and are coming up with conclusions that they can visit a general practitioner 26 times a year before the 75 per cent Medibank Private table at $192 a year becomes a cheaper option. It is very dangerous for people to be doing that, but they are doing it because they cannot afford to pay the present rates. The reasons that I have enunciated explain why the funds are in trouble. The Government is responsible because it has destroyed the principle of sound actuarial insurance funding. A year ago, 70 per cent of the public was covered by health funds. At present, less than 60 per cent of the public want any part of the private health funds. 
Now the long-suffering, confused public faces further shock treatment because more changes are on the way. The mail is out, and the Minister has just confirmed in his speech, that the Government is considering measures such as placing a means test on free access to public hospital beds and perhaps limiting the universal medical benefits subsidy to members of funds only. In addition to further confusing changes fund contributions are going to rise yet again. As I have just outlined and as the Minister is aware this will be caused by the mass exodus from the funds and another two reasons: Firstly, the removal of that general 40 per cent subsidy, and secondly, because doctors' fees are going up once again. Information has been released to the effect that a fee for a general practitioner's consultation will rise by 13 per cent- from $8.90 to $10.20. I note that the Australian Medical Association- the most militant and selfish trade union in the country- is still instructing and advising its members to hold out for a 20 per cent increase. That is disgraceful. I am digressing. I will leave that matter aside for a moment. 
As a result of the abolition of the general 40 per cent subsidy, contributions for the 75 per cent table for the Medibank Private family rate have increased by 18 per cent. But when the 40 per cent was payable by the Government the private health funds actually paid out only 35 per cent of $8.90 for a general practitioner's consultation or $3.1 1. Now, given the rise in doctors' fees and the abolition of the 40 per cent subsidy, the funds are up for 75 per cent of the consultation fee, that is, $7.65. In other words, there has been a 146 per cent increase in the responsibility of the private funds for a general practitioner's consultation, but only an 18 per cent increase in fund contributions. Obviously, the people of Australia will be facing further increases. Once again the Government's cent wise and dollar foolish attitude and medical greed are to send insurance rates rocketing. To sum up the reasons why those costs will rise again, the first reason is the exodus of at least 10 per cent of the contributors to these funds. The second reason is the increase in medical fees. The third reason is the deliberate abolition of the 40 per cent general subsidy. 
Why do we need 80-odd different private health insurance funds? After all, the Commonwealth pays for all services over $20, at a cost of $590m. Medical tables operated by the funds really cover only the first $20 anyway. The Government pays the rest. What is to be done? Certainly something more is necessary than legislating for a new system to register health insurance funds, allowing contributions as tax concessions; implementing a means test on public hospital beds, and restricting payments of the federal benefit to fund members, as is being considered by Cabinet. The Australian people do not want and do not need the complex multiplicity of funds and tables which is currently thrust upon them. They are choking in the chaotic muddle of this system, which has been clogged by the greed of private medicine. The Australian people, particularly families and the poor, are crying out for a dependable, understandable, comprehensive system to take the worry out of health care. They will not get that from this Minister or this Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1979: 
Has his Depanment any plans to provide a re-fuelling depot for nuclear powered ships at Jervis Bay, ACT, or at any New South Wales port or naval facility; if so, when will a full report be given to Parliament. 
It has been perfectly obvious since 1976 that the oil majors have been determined to move into the Australian coal industry. The reasons for this action are very obvious. During the 1970s, the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries nations have adopted an increasingly militant position. They have moved into controlling their own oil resources through the establishment of their own State oil companies. They have been limiting their production to preserve their oil- their main export earner- and, as we all know, they have been raising prices. Those price limits are restricted only by the capacity of the consumer Western nations to pay and the alternatives to liquid fuels and oil. As a result, we can see that oil has become increasingly dearer- there is no question about that- and increasingly short in supply. It necessarily follows that, despite the record profits of the international oil majors, as presented today by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  oil as a profit earner in future has a limited long term future. It is very understandable then that the oil majors will seek to preserve their own future by becoming total energy companies. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Ilansard  a list showing the activities of the oil majors in the Australian coal industry over the last two to three years. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

I thank the House. Honourable members will be able to read this list and to see, for instance, that BP Australia Ltd which is 50 per cent owned by the British Government, owns 100 per cent of the New South Wales coal producing company, Clutha Development Pty Ltd, which is operating in the southern coalfields where it has reserves of 500 million tonnes in the Burragorang Valley in New South Wales and 500 million tonnes of reserves in Queensland. The 50 per cent ownership of BP by the British Government, means that Clutha is 25 per cent owned by the British Government. Here we have the position where the Minister, this Government and the back benchers, such as the last speaker, would utterly oppose the Australian Government having ownership in coal companies but they are quite prepared to see BP, which is 50 per cent owned by the British Government, own 100 per cent of Clutha, an Australian company. How crazy is their position. 
Esso Australia Ltd has 25 per cent of the Queensland Hail Creek deposit of 836 million tonnes of coal. Caltex Oil (Australia) Pty Ltd has 27 per cent ownership of H. C. Sleigh Ltd, which in turn has 45 per cent ownership of the rich Warkworth reserves of 400 million tonnes plus in the Upper Hunter in New South Wales. Shell Co. of Australia Ltd has 49 per cent of the rich German Creek deposits of 360 million tonnes and 37 per cent of Austen &amp; Butta Ltd, the New South Wales company which has reserves of 600 million tonnes. I refer now to a mine that is very close to my own electorate, owned by the Bellambi Coal Company. Shell Company has now acquired and is seeking approval to buy 49 per cent of that particular mine. The Government says: ' Why oppose it? ' 
-Why oppose it. That is the Government's argument. Let us see what the absent Minister had to say. He does not have the guts to come in and debate this matter with our shadow Minister. In yesterday's  Australian Financial Review,  Mr Anthony  is quoted as saying that he would not lay down strict or arbitrary rules as to who could or could not participate in the development of Australia's coal resources. Why not? Let us have a look at the track record of the oil majors. The track record is very poor indeed. Both the Prices Justification Tribunal and the New South Wales Prices Commission have been very critical of their activities in the transfer pricing area. The oil industry has been ideally suited because of its vertical integration for the companies to take their profits wherever it suits them- whether at the production end, the transport end or the refining end. That is what the oil companies have been doing, and the PJT and the New South Wales Prices Commission have drawn attention to that fact. 
There is no question that oil companies have placed their own interest first and Australia's interests last regarding oil imports. So why does this Government think the oil companies will act any differently as they move into the business of coal exports? This Parliament should be greatly concerned at the Minister's 'It'll be all right' attitude to our energy resources. The Secretary for Trade and Resources, a  Mr James  Scully, at a recent energy symposium in Sydney indicated- I suppose he was speaking for the Governmentthat it had no objection to the cartels which the Japanese steel mills were setting up to squeeze Australian coal miners and no objection to Japanese energy utilities controlling Australian energy reserves. The Government did not indicate any plans whatsoever for a resources tax, even though it is cutting back the coal levy and has no plans whatsoever to cream-off the windfall profits that are being made in the increasing exports of coal, especially from the larger open cut fields in Queensland. 
The whole theme of the Government's approach to energy resources is that we are in the box seat. But there is no hint that our natural advantages impose obligations to be careful, rigorous and forceful in ensuring that our natural heritage and wealth are not simply frittered away. Australia's recoverable coal reserves are substantial. Various estimates, including that by the New South Wales Joint Coal Board, range from 18,500 million tonnes to 36,000 million tonnes of black coal. This compares with 83,000 million tonnes in the Soviet Union and 1 14,000 million tonnes in the United States. Actually, we have only about 2 per cent of the world 's coal reserves but we are now the third largest exporter after the United States and Poland. Soon, if multinational coal companies have their way, we will head the list. Already Australia exports over 50 per cent of its production, whilst the United States exports 8 per cent of its production. 
The sky is the limit, to listen to the bullish estimates of the Government and some of the coal companies. We can see high estimate forecasts that the Australian coal production will treble or quadruple to over 250 million tonnes a year by 1995, which includes exports of 115 million tonnes a year of steaming and coking coal from New South Wales alone. This would include a substantial increase in steaming coal exports, particularly from the Upper Hunter. Added to this is the future demands of the growing aluminium smelting industry. In New South Wales alone, Alumax Pty Ltd, Pechiney and Nabalco Pty Ltd all plan to build smelters in the Hunter Valley to produce over three-quarters of a million tonnes of aluminium annually. These smelters will consume vast quantities of steaming coal for power generation. We should encourage the State Electricity Commissions to take equity from the producers in these projects as part of the contracting for the provision of cheaper electricity. The Foreign Investment Review Board should be used to ensure this. 
Then there is the possibility of coal liquefaction. To produce 50 per cent of Australia's oil requirements from coal liquefaction would require an extra 45 million tonnes of coal production annually. I have no confidence that foreign oil majors will ensure adequate rationalisation of coal resources to cover these future needs since their motivation will be to export for profit. 
There is also a problem as certain types of coal, particularly coking coal, could be in future short supply unless rationalisation of usage occurs. The Shell takeover of the Bellambi Coal Company particularly worries me in this regard. The macro position is that approximately 6 million tonnes of coking coal a year are currently exported from the New South Wales southern coalfields. On completion of the new Port Kembla coal loader, this could rise to 15 million tonnes with , later estimates rising to some 25 million tonnes by 1995. But local needs for the steel industry by 1995 will range from between 10 million tonnes to 1 5 million tonnes. In the 90s, the southern coalfield could be producing up to 40 million tonnes a year, virtually all from the valuable Bulli seam. 
The Port Kembla steel industry faces future difficulties since Bulli and Wongawilli coal are needed in a 70/30 blend to produce coke for the local steel industry. The export market is taking the better quality Bulli coal, leaving an increasing proportion of poorer quality coking coal for Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd use. The Catch 22 situation is that the lower the quality of the Bulli coal the more the Wongawilli coal seam must be used, but the Wongawilli seam has a limited life of some 20 years. As one of Australia's leading coal geologists, Professor Cook of Wollongong University puts it: 
When the limit of Wongawilli is reached, the remaining poorer Bulli coal will not be useable by the Australian steel industry in their present plant unless coal is imported, perhaps from Queensland. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-As the House knows, this Bill- and the Opposition does not oppose it- allows the Commonwealth Pipeline Authority to construct a pipeline from Young to Wagga and later, I hope, to Albury to join up the two major gas producing basins, that is, the Cooper Basin in South Australia, with the Gippsland field in the Bass Strait. In his second reading speech, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  said: 
This would provide a measure of security of supply for the two largest cities in the Commonwealth in the event of interruption to supply from either gas field. 
There is another reason why it is very important to link the Cooper Basin and the Bass Strait natural gas field. Let me explain. Australia's natural gas reserves currently are about 885,000 million cubic metres. Of course, those reserves are from three major fields. There is the Gippsland Basin in Bass Strait of about 200,000 million cubic metres. About half that amount- some 100,000 million cubic metres- is in the Cooper Basin. Some 470,000 million cubic metres are in the North West Shelf of Western Australia. The North Rankin trend has reserves of 244,000 million cubic metres, the Angel district about 50,000 million cubic metres and the Goodwin area about 1 40,000 million cubic metres. It is important to look at that holding in the light of what I will point out. 
It can be readily seen that the Bass Strait field has about twice the reserves that are in the Cooper Basin of South Australia. Despite that fact, the Cooper Basin is called upon to supply both South Australia and New South Wales. NSW will be supplied via the Moomba to Sydney pipeline of which this pipeline will be a spur and later a connecting link to Victoria. Natural gas is very important to South Australia. It provides about 35 per cent of its primary energy reserves. New South Wales currently receives 5 per cent of its energy reserves through this vital pipeline to South Australia. The Santos Company which is the operator of the Cooper Basin gas fields has contracts to supply the Pipeline Authority of South Australia with about 24,000 million cubic metres which will supply South Australia until about 1987. Similarly New South Wales is guaranteed 56,000 million cubic metres until the year 200 1 and a later option of an extra 23,000 million cubic metres until 2007. As I think has been noted earlier in this debate this means that South Australia- not Victoria or New South Wales- is the State which could be in trouble at a later date. It will need to draw its supplies after 1987 from future discoveries. I am told that Santos does feel that another 100,000 million cubic metres, or as the shadow Minister said 3.6 trillion cubic feet, could be available. The important point to remember is that it will be more expensive to extract and will come from very much smaller and deeper pools. 
Though it may be possible to double the current reserves in the Cooper Basin by further exploration, it is obvious that a potentially explosive situation exists. It is impossible to envisage any government of South Australia with 35 per cent of its energy supplies coming from natural gas, presiding over a shortfall gas supply in its home State, whilst another State is provided with contracts covering another 18 years from within its home State. Given this situation and in the absence of a pipeline to the north-west of Western Australia, two vital points emerge. The pressure is now well and truly on to prove future reserves in the Cooper Basin in South Australia. Secondly- this is what I set out to prove- the Young-Albury pipeline when it is completed may well be required to supply New South Wales continually with Bass Strait gas before the year 2000. 
Given the possibilities then of future shortages in the eastern States in the long term, given the need to prove up long term reserves in Western Australia and given the possibilities of producing methanol as a substitute for liquid fuels, notably petrol, it is very pertinent in this debate to examine the North West Shelf situation. Briefly, as I do not want to take up too much time, I mention that the multinational consortium proposes to drill two wells and service them from two platforms on the North Rankin field only with about 245,000 million cubic metres of reserves. It is intended to export some 70 per cent to 75 per cent of those reserves from that single field. The daily production would be 41,000 million cubic metres. The export and fuel for the liquid natural gas plant would be 31,000 million cubic metres. Western Australia, including the aluminium industry in the south west and the iron ore industry in the Pilbara, would draw 10,000 million cubic metres. 
The capital expenditure is enormous. In 1978 values, it is some $3,000 billion to $4,000 billion. Of course the argument for such a high level of exports is to create an early cash flow to get a return to pay back the loans which would be required to finance this enormous development. But, remember this: Whilst we are not opposing exports, we say that a case exists for the consideration of breaking them down. If honourable members want to use the early cash flow argument, they should understand that at least twothirds of the capital expenditure is going to be provided to buy ships to export the gas and for a liquefied natural gas plant to freeze it. So the question that has to be asked is: Is it possible that it would be wiser, regarding our own long term demands, and more economical to reduce the export level now, thus guaranteeing Western Australian domestic demand for a much longer period, to have at least some future reserves for the east in the event of none proving up of further reserves in the east and to provide a feed stock for methanol production at a later date. 
Let me make it clear, as the shadow Minister has on many occasions, that the Opposition's policy is to allow exports from the North West Shelf sufficient to justify development expenditure but not more than should be allowed in the national interest, having regard to Australia's domestic demand in hydro-carbons. In actual fact, that is the policy of the Australian Labor Party. But, having said that, I point out that there is now a case to reconsider export levels and the figure of 4.4 million tonnes of LNG a year which, instead of 6.5 million tonnes, would reduce exports by about a third- that is, about 47 per cent of the North Rankin trend would be exported instead of 70 per cent to 75 per cent which is currently proposed. Really, it is the responsibility of the Federal Government and West Australian Government, instead of getting mixed up in hysterical arguments and accusations whether exports will be allowed, to consider what we are saying here. There does seem every reason to cater for increased Western Australian demand for natural gas above 10,000 million cubic metres a day. Western Australia is deficient in coal resources and is highly dependent upon imported fuel oil for power generation. It is argued that natural gas is a prime energy resource and ought not to be used for power generation. The Federal and West Australian Governments propose to allow up to 75 per cent to be exported- but most of it for what? It is for power generation in Japan. 
Let me name the utilities. They are Tohoku Electric; Tokyo Electric; Chubu Electric; Kansai Electric; Chugoku Electric; Shikoko Electric; Kyushu Electric; Tokyo Gas; and Osaka Gas. More than 60 per cent of the regasified LNG will be used in Japan for electricity generation. In my opinion, iron ore producers in the Pilbara, alumina producers in the south-west, and the West Australian Electricity Commission, are as entitled to use Western Australian gas for power generation as are the Japanese. It is a far better option than  Sir Charles  Court's proposal for a nuclear power station. In the circumstances it is totally irresponsible of the Premier of Western Australia to be even talking about a nuclear power station, when it has been proven that there is no way that a nuclear power station can be decommissioned in future, after 30 or 40 years of active life. Nor is there any way to dispose of the high level of nuclear waste. 
I would suggest that a reasonable conclusion at this late stage, with the $S0m feasibility study almost completed, and given the political and employment situation in Western Australia, is that the project should proceed on a reduced export basis, that is, not more than 45 per cent of the production from North Rankin, and about a one-third reduction from what has already been proposed. As the shadow Minister said, the trans-continental pipeline is a future option to be considered if and when we get emerging gas shortages in the east and increased oil prices. A further option for a responsible Federal government to consider is, of course, a methanol plant in Western Australia, at Perth or Dampier, based on an immediate one-third reduction in proposed export levels and eventually, if and when a trans-continental pipeline is completed to Central Australia and then on to Sydney, a methanol plant in Sydney. 
I wish to mention two other matters. The pricing policy of natural gas is in a shambles. At present the pricing levels are completely untenable. It is 3c a therm in Victoria and ranges from that level to a proposed equality with import parity with crude oil for Pilbarra in Western Australia; a massive 21c a therm. I understand that that is what import parity with crude oil would now be. In this situation the management of iron ore companies- particularly Hamersley Iron- might well say: 
. our view is that we simply can't afford to take the risk of using Australian gas. 
A price escalation formula, which is dependent upon actions taken by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, is a recipe for economic disaster. We would argue that there is no logical basis for insisting that North West Shelf gas, being supplied to Pilbara based exporters of iron ore, should be priced on the same terms as Middle East oil. Of course, that is true. Why should the Australian firms, which are trying to upgrade iron ore to increase their export level, have to pay such an enormous price for natural gas- seven times the Victorian price- when they are the closest people to the North West Shelf? They are going to pay the same price as the regasified price in Japan. I am sure that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  knows that that is true. 
I am aware that other people want to speak in this debate and that I should finish before my time is up. A number of major pipelines will surely be constructed in Australia in the next few years. We should try to ensure that the maximum amount of Australian pipe is used. I know that Tubemakers of Australia is the major pipes manufacturer. It has two plants, one at Port Kembla which employs about 150 people and  which  produces pipes of up to 20 inches; and one at Newcastle which employs 1,800 people and which produces only six-inch pipes. That is a disgrace for a major gas and energy nation. I am told that these tubemakers will be in the race to tender for the supply of the pipe for the Young to Albury line. As yet they are not in a position to tender because they do not know what the chances of major orders might be, or whether future tenders will be accepted. We know that there is going to be a major line if the North West Shelf development goes ahead and a line is constructed from Dampier to Perth. At this stage it seems that that would require at least a 26-inch to a 30-inch pipe, and that no Australian producer would be involved. What is required immediately are negotiations between government and industry to see that industry has a chance to gear up. Industry should be instructed to gear up if we are going to have the pipelines. We have got to see that we maximise employment opportunities. 
In a sense this Bill proves that the Connor national pipeline grid concept still lives on. The pipelines that now exist in Australia are, of course, Moomba to Adelaide, Moomba to Sydney with spur lines to Wollongong and Newcastle- which is under construction- and this line which will link Young to Wagga and, hopefully, eventually, Albury. The probable new pipelines are the Dampier to Perth line, and, hopefully, the Moomba to Redcliff line, if and when that much needed petrochemical plant gets off the ground. 
I am surprised, and so too are many others, that the Federal Government has done virtually nothing to encourage this development in South Australia. I do not expect that the new Liberal Government in South Australia under  Mr Tonkin  will do much either. I have a feeling that when Labor is returned to office in South Australia in three years time that this crowd will still be talking about Redcliff and it will be up to that Labor Government to get down and do something about it. One thing is certain and that is that the fields that will be discovered in South Australia will be increasingly wetter fields which will produce increasing quantities of LPGpropane, butane, ethanol and liquid condensates. If nothing is done about Redcliff in South Australia it is virtually certain that these valuable energy and plastics reserves will simply stay in the natural gas pipeline and be consumed in Sydney and Adelaide. Eventually we might have the big one- the trans-continental pipeline. 
I conclude on this note, that it is very likely that by 2000AD all or most of these pipelines will have been completed, or be under construction, and that the great dream of the national pipeline grid will then be a reality. 
-After listening to that little diatribe it is perfectly obvious that the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  is completely owned by the New South Wales Colliery Owners Association and the Road Hauliers Federation. Why else would he go into that useless diatribe against rail transport? 
In deference to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I withdraw, but it is perfectly obvious that there is some particular reason why the honourable member is - 
Coming out so strongly in favour of the road hauling of coal. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The Opposition demands that the Government drop this Bill, which provides for variable coal levies, and impose in its place a resources rent tax based on profitability. Let me just mention two instances to show the unfortunate discriminatory effect of tonnage levies on coal. In 1978-79 the Bellambi Coal Co. Ltd, which operates an underground mine in New South Wales, paid $4.5m in the coal levy and ended up with a $2. 9m pre-tax operating loss. On the other hand, during that same period the Utah Development Co. in Queensland turned in a payment of $45m in the coal export levy and still finished up with $ 1 38m in profits for that year. 
This legislation reduces the coal export levy from $3.50 per tonne to $1 per tonne in the case of underground mines, open cut mines which come on stream after 30 June next year, and open cut mines which are operating at depths greater than 60 metres. Certainly, as far as it goes it improves the position of the New South Wales underground mines, but major problems still remain. The Government has cast the relief net far too wide. The reduction in the levy to $ 1 in the case of open cut mines after 30 June 1980 could be too generous in the long run, in the same way as the reduction to $1 in the case of open cut mines operating at depths greater than 60 metres could be too generous in the long run. For instance, the capital costs of opening a major open cut mine, if we use the Norwich Park mine as an example, is about $250m to $300m. Utah would cover that amount with its profits in two years. Similarly, a bucket wheel, a new installation infrastructure which is used to get down to greater depths than drag lines can reach to extract the utmost amount from the coal seam, costs $50m to $60m. For how long after this infrastructure is paid for does the Government expect to extend the tax concession? Obviously, what the shadow 
Minister for Minerals and Energy has said is correct. We need a resources rent tax based on profitability. 
A tremendous loss of revenue is involved for the Federal Government. Without citing too many figures, I will use Utah as the prime example. For instance, in September 1977- in one month- out of a total profit of $141 m, it sent $130m to the parent company in the United States. The next year the company's profits went down slightly. It made $ 138m after the payment of company tax, the coal export levy and the branch profits tax. Nevertheless, $116m was paid out in dividends. I am sure that most of that money went back to the United States. Then again in the first six months of 1979 the profit was $71 m 
I want the House to compare the situation under the coal export levy with what could happen under a resources rent tax. Applying a resources rent tax introduced at the threshold level of, say, 14 per cent, with the Government taking 100 per cent thereafter, Utah's figure for capital development expenditure on its three minesPeak Downs, Saraji and Goonyella- is $440m. I repeat, that is Utah's own figure. A resources tax of that nature would have supplied an extra $76m to the Federal Government in 1978. Utah would have finished up with a final profit of $62m. 
An important question when considering resources rent tax is whether or not a threshold should be guaranteed to operate after the development capital has been recovered. There is a possibility of applying a resources tax other than the way in which I just illustrated. It could operate in the same way as the British petroleum rent tax, that is, a flat 60 per cent tax could be imposed on gross profits followed by the 46 per cent Australian company tax. Under that sort of system, on 1978 figures, the Government would end up with approximately $266m, but Utah would still make $74m profit for the year. There is no argument about it. The resources tax returns to the Federal Government more revenue than a levy and is the fairest tax on the industry. To impose such a tax is not only in the interests of the industry but also in the interests of rationalising coal production in the best interests of the nation. 
The Australian coal industry has experienced two major phenomena in the last several years. Firstly, we have seen the extremely bullish demands being made to commit reserves, and, secondly, we have seen the penetration of that industry by the oil majors, which matter we dealt with in this House last week. We see predictions of massive export levels of up to 300 million tonnes of Australian coal by 1995. We see huge commitments to power generation for aluminium smelting. Whilst we in the Opposition are not opposed to that per se we say that there ought to be a rationalisation of the industry in that regard. For instance, the value of the proposed tonnage which would be produced by the developments so far announced in New South Wales alone could possibly be over $ 1,000m. It seems to me that if there is no proper taxation at the coal input end of power generation there will be a case in future to impose a resources tax on the exports of aluminium. Of that there can be no doubt. We also see that there will be a continuing need to monitor the needs of the local Australian steel industry possibly to provide reserves for future coal liquefaction. 
All of this inevitably points to the Opposition's coal policy of establishing a national coal authority with powers similar to those of the New South Wales Joint Coal Board. I just mention one clause in the Board's charter to show the House how desirable it would be to get all of the States of Australia to come in with the Federal Government to establish a national coal authority in the same way as the Chifley Government established the Commonwealth-New South Wales Joint Coal Board in the late 1940s. The relevant clause in its charter simply states that the Board has the power: 
To ensure that the coal resources of the State(s) are conserved, developed, worked and used to the best advantage in the public interest. 
Of course, the Joint Coal Board of New South Wales has the complete power either to reject or to approve permits for the opening of new mines. The second major feature which I mentioned is the penetration by the oil majors. As I said, we dealt with that matter last week. I will not go into it again now except to say that the British Petroleum Company controls 100 per cent of the Clutha Development Pty Ltd mines in the Burragorang Valley in the southern coalfields of New South Wales and that the Shell group of companies has a 50 per cent interest in such major developments as that at German Creek in Queensland. Now, very close to my own electorate, it is moving in to take control of the Bellambi coal mine. 
I want to conclude on this note, perhaps being a little parochial, but as the honourable member for Macarthur spent all of his time being parochial, I am sure you will excuse me,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Recently a spokesman for Shell stated that his company would provide extra capital to improve coal production from this underground mine. Having recently been underground in the mine and observed the long wall mining technique, I do not think it needs extra capital to produce more coal. What it needs is a better transport system than road transport to the port of Kembla. No concern has been registered by Shell or British Petroleum on this issue, which vitally affects the local community in which these mines operate. The coal companies are now demanding- what absolute audacity!that the New South Wales Government should spend millions of dollars on new coal roads, the worst possible system of coal transport. They are demanding that rather than supporting a fair and equitable tax on the industry for the construction of coal rail lines. It is cheaper for an oil major such as BP to screw low freight rates from private truck owners and to demand new coal roads from Labor State governments than to help finance rail lines. We do not support inequitable levies on underground mines, but these problems must be solved now. There is no question about that. 
On the south coast of New South Wales, in the city of Wollongong, 4.5 million tonnes of coal were transported by road to the coal loader at Port Kembla in 1978-79. Coal trucks carry between 35 tonnes and 40 tonnes of coal. Thus, in that year, about 125,000 truckloads of coal were delivered to the loader, that is, 400 loads a day for a six-day week, or 800 round trips a day. Under stage 1 of the new Port Kembla loader, exports may reach 15 million tonnes per annum. If we take notice of the honourable member for Macarthur, that would indicate that Wollongong will receive some 2,500 truckloads of coal through the main city area to the port in one day. 
I see that my time has virtually expired. I conclude by saying that there is no question that this amendment ought to be carried. A resources rent tax ought to be imposed on the industry instead of these interminable variable coal levies. When we get such a resources tax, I hope that to some extent it will be used in the interests of rationalising open cut coal mining vis a vis underground coal mining, and to help produce adequate transport systems, not only in the interests of coal owners and workers in the industry but also in the interests of the communities in which the mines are situated. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
1 ) What are the economic reasons for the transfer of operator-assisted calls to the new 1 0C type of exchange. 
What are the relative costs of handling a call on the IOC and an older type of exchange. 
What sum per annum is the change saving each customer. 
To what extent have ways been explored of reducing costs on the conventional equipment. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
1 ) Has Telecom Australia installed a 10C trunk exchange at Brisbane. 
If so, what area will the Brisbane computer exchange cover. 
Does Telecom (a) intend phasing out existing manual assistance and (b) envisage extending some of the Brisbane 10C exchange functions to country areas; if so, what functions. 
What plans has Telecom made to overcome failures of a major trunk line system operating from a 10C exchange and what plans has it made for the failure of the 10C equipment itself. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
1 ) Has Telecom Australia installed a 10C trunk exchange at Bendigo, Victoria. 
) If so, are print outs, similar to the ones referred to in an article by Andrew McCathie in the  Australian Financial Review  of 2 May 1979, kept for the Bendigo exchange. 
Will he make available to the Parliament copies of the print outs, from November 1 978 to date. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
Does Telecom Australia intend closing existing manual assistance centres at Nambour and Toowoomba, Queensland. 
If so, (a) what arrangements are to be made for the Nambour and Toowoomba areas for operator assistance with trunk calls, (b) will calls first have to reach the computer at Brisbane and then be directed to one of the provincial exchanges, (c) will the failure of the trunk system from one provincial centre to Brisbane seriously disrupt STD traffic, (d) will the failure of the Brisbane 10C equipment seriously disrupt STD traffic from the provincial centres and (e) in the event of the failure of a major trunk line system or of the Brisbane 10C equipment, will operators at the Brisbane manual assistance centre still connect trunk calls to areas to which STD traffic has been disrupted. 
Do the operators have facilities which enable them to reach places to which STD is out of order or choked up. 
If there are no facilities, did they previously exist. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
In what centres has Telecom Australia installed10C trunk exchanges. 
On what date did Telecom begin installing the equipment in each of the centres. 
Is manual assistance available in each of the centres where the10C equipment has been installed. 
In the cases where manual assistance is available does Telecom envisage phasing out the service: if so, what is the timetable in each case and on what basis did Telecom decide to phase out each service. 
What was the basis for the decision to eliminate manual assistance in the centres where it previously existed. 
In the cases where manual assistance has been eliminated is the10C computer exchange the only means for handling trunk and international traffic to and from those centres. 
What is the greatest amount of downtime encountered in each of the months since November 1978 for each of the 10C exchanges now in operation. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 24 October 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that a group of public servants was conducted recently on a 7 day tour of mining areas in Northern Australia, including Fraser Island, by the Australian Mining Industry Council. 
2 ) If so, was the tour paid for by the Council. 
What are the names and designations of the officers who were conducted on the tour. 
