
 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I move: 
That paragraph  (8)  be omitted with  a  view to inserting the following paragraph in place thereof: 
That the committee and its sub-committees shall sit in public unless the committee resolves that its own proceedings or a sub-committee's proceedings shall be secret, whereupon they shall sit in camera. 
Three years ago,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as a result of changes made in the structure of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs at that time, the Australian Labor Party, the alternative government, decided for the first time to take part in its deliberations. I was one of those people - as, indeed, were most honourable members of the Labor Opposition - who welcomed the opportunity to turn that Committee into a more important Committee of this Parliament than it had been previously. When the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs was first established in the early days of the Menzies Government it was the private bailiwick of the Government. I know that part of the reason for this was a decision of the Parliamentary Labor Party at that point but happily this position no longer continues and the amendment which I have moved, together with the amendment which has already been disposed of tonight, furthers the purpose of the Australian Labor Party to turn the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs into a more effective instrument of this Parliament. 
We have a number of joint parliamentary committees. The Public Accounts Committee and the Public Works Committee function to subject the decisions made by the Executive, the Cabinet and the Government to proper scrutiny. Every man in this Parliament recognises that the party or coalition of parties which has the majority has, subject to the approval of this Parliament, the right and the opportunity to determine the policies of the Commonwealth of Australia. The purpose of the parliamentary Labor Party is to ensure that these decisions are subject to proper scrutiny by the Parliament. 
It has been said by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  and by others that this Committee is a study group. I do not think that there is anything to be ashamed of in that. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  who spoke on the previous amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  was kind enough to pay tribute to members of the Opposition and in particular the honourable member for Fremantle for the constructive role played in the Joint Foreign Affairs Committee in the previous Parliament. I think that honourable members from this side of the House would also agree that the Foreign Affairs Committee in the previous Parliament looked honestly at the subjects which were referred to it fairly and well. I do not think honourable members on either side of the Committee sacrificed any of their political beliefs. The Committee functioned in the belief that the interests of the nation and the proper scrutiny of matters associated with external affairs were a responsibility of the Committee as a parliamentary committee. 
The Labor Party proposes this amendment, which will give to the Committee itself the discretion as to when it may meet in camera and when it may hold public meetings as distinct from the present situation where this is a matter for decision by the Minister, because the Labor Party wishes to upgrade the standing of the Foreign Affairs Committee as a committee of this Parliament and we of the Parliamentary Labor Party who expect to be in government after the next election- 
My colleague and friend the Attorney-General says that we have been saying that for years, but I put it to him in all fairness that we are saying it with a lot more justification than we may have had on previous occasions. We are conscious of the fact that we are setting up an instrument of the Parliament, so we are quite sincere in this. If there is something to lose in this we potentially have more to lose than the Government has, because we believe in the upgrading of this Committee as an instrument of the Parliament and that is the purpose of our amendment. I would like to deal with some of the general questions about the previous Committee, the only one on which I have had the honour to serve. But I would like to reject the suggestions implicit in the statement made by the honourable member for La Trobe that he was a little concerned because in the last Parliament the representation of the Labor Opposition was a little different from its representation in this Parliament. I am very happy with the changes that have taken place in the representation from this side of the Parliament. I believe that if this Committee is to function as an instrument of the Parliament the views expressed from either side should be represented across the spectrum of the views of the members on both sides. 1 do not know of any man in this Parliament who served on the previous Committee or who potentially could serve on this one whom ] would not regard as a person well capable of receiving any information that might be put before the Committee and of using his discretion as to how and where that information might be used. T do not agree with many of the opinions expressed by Government supporters - I believe that would be pretty obvious - but I would not think any were potentially traitors to the Commonwealth of Australia. I resent the implication and the suggestions that are made from the other side of the Parliament from time to time that there are members on this side who could not be entrusted with any information that was put before the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs in the last Parliament or which could be put before the Committee in this Parliament. Surely this is our purpose. We have at the moment a Government which has been in office for over 20 years. 
I support my colleague the honourable member for Grayndler. We think it is far too long. But in these circumstances where we have a Government well entrenched, which is not bringing forward new ideas in any of these fields, surely it is important for the Parliament to play a constructive role; and this is bur purpose. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle which has already been disposed of and, unhappily, rejected, had as its purpose the idea that matters could be referred to this Committee by the Parliament. The amendment which I have moved gives the Committee discretion, and not the Minister, as to when it should meet in secret and when it should have public hearings. In other words, what we are saying to members of this Parliament is that this is a Committee which has been proved to be a worthwhile instrument of the Parliament. It is a Committee which we can improve. We want to see it given greater power, greater discretion and greater responsibility. We want to see it become a more effective instrument whereby the Parliament may subject to scrutiny decisions made by the Government and the Executive, whatever government may be in office. So we are proposing to give the Committee the discretion that at present is vested in the Minister. We believe that members on both sides of the House are capable of making a decision as to when the Committee should meet in public and when it should meet in secret. 
It has been said that there are many occasions when we have people giving evidence before the Committee when the Committee should meet in secret, and we all agree with that. No person on this side of the Parliament - no person who has served on the Committee - would disagree with (his because we all recognise that it is true. On the other hand, if we are going to turn this Committee into an effective instrument of the Parliament we should give it an opportunity to hold public sessions and inquire into matters across the board that are important to the Parliament and to the future of the people of Australia. So I appeal to members on the other side of the Parliament to cast away their prejudices on this matter because the Labor Party as the next Government of this country is, in this amendment, putting forward a proposition whereby it affirms its faith in the integrity of members on both sides of the Parliament. Accordingly, 1 commend this amendment to honourable members. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is the amendment seconded? 
 J address my question to the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs. Since there is every reason to believe that the situation revealed in Queensland Government settlements for Aboriginals is widespread - namely, that there is a dangerously high mortality rate among infants after weaning, and permanent health and brain damage ensues for many survivors - will the Minister take steps to create a service to doctors, infant health officers and nutritionists to remedy the situation as rapidly as possible? Does he realise that the Constitution has permitted the Commonwealth to provide such medical services not only since the 1967 referendum but ever since the 1946 referendum? 
I thank my colleague, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  for the kind words that he uttered, lt is customary on occasions like this, even when we are dealing with an academic matter, a matter of some importance in the field of science, to be a little political. I intend to be a little political for a few minutes. 1 would like to give the credit for the establishment of the marine research station to the man who raised this question in the Parliament. Surprisingly enough it was not the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  nor was it the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  The record shows that our Senate colleague,  Senator Felix  Dittmer, in his maiden speech in 1959, raised the question of research into the tropical environment. He put this proposal to the Prime Minister, when he was in another place, on 25th September 1963, as appears at page 833 of Hansard. 
If the Prime Minister lakes .some credit lor his interest in this establishment then he was considering it for about 7 years. 
A very important symposium was conducted by the Australian Conservation Foundation in May of last year. Our distinguished ex-colleague.  Sir Garfield  Barwick, who has now been translated to the judicial field, wrote the Prime Minister a letter on 2nd June 1969. In answer lo a question from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  the Prime Minister said: 
On 9th April 1970  i  wrote to  Sir Garfield  Barwick informing him of progress made on the mailers he wrote lo me about un 2nd June 1969. 
So we see that there does not happen to have been as much urgency about this matter as we would have liked. 
J return to the Bill and the proposal to establish an Australian institute of marine science, lt is a very apt time to be doing this, in the year of the discovery of iiic east coast of this continent by Lieutenant James Cook in the HMS 'Endeavour', He made the first contributions to marine science on the east coast of Australia and certainly his expedition charted new fields in oceanography, hydrography and scientific investigation of the marine environment. About 100 years ago, in 1873, the HMS Challenger' set out on the world's first oceanographic expedition. Now one hundred years later this Government is setting about this very commendable enterprise in the first year of the international decade of oceanographic exploration. 
We are all very concerned these days with conservation. Many of the honourable members who have spoken in this debate, including the honourable member for Griffith, have mentioned the pollution of our environment. Of course we all are concerned with this, but real conservation is based on a proper survey of the flora and fauna of our nation and the ecological system - the environment in which plants and animals live and how they may best be preserved. What areas of our continent are biologically unique and ought to be preserved inviolate? What areas of our continent and its environs are capable of being used and developed and their natural resources husbanded in such a way that they may not be destroyed? 
As the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H, Bowen)  has shown an obvious interest in matters of scientific research, I should like to draw his attention to two previous proposals that have been put to the Government by the Australian Academy of Science, both of which are in a field comparable with the proposed Australian Institute of Marine Science. The first was a proposal early in 1962 for a Flora of Australia outlined in a paper by  Dr S.  T. Blake of Brisbane. More recently, in May 1969, the Australian Academy of Science submitted to the Government a suggestion for a Biological Survey of Australia, to be principally domiciled in Canberra, which would involve a complete survey of the flora and fauna of our continent in order that we might know what we ought to develop, what we ought to exploit, and what we ought to conserve. It is on the basis of scientific research that conservation is founded. So, the Australian Labor Party welcomes the proposal that the Government has placed before us. 
We are very much in favour of the establishment of an Australian Institute of Marine Science. Naturally, as a Queenslander, I am pleased to see the proposal to establish this Institute at or near Townsville in North Queensland. For my part, I am extremely pleased with the personnel who have been appointed by the Minister to the proposed Interim Council. We have a well balanced team. We have  Dr M.  F. Day of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation who is associated with entomology; Professor Burdon-Jones, the Professor of Marine Biology at the James Cook University of Townsville;  Dr N.  H. Fisher of the Commonwealth Bureau of Mineral Resources, a Queensland graduate; Professor  Dr Dorothy  Hill the research Professor of Geology and Mineralogy at the University of Queensland;  Mr Walter  Ives, Secretary of the Department of Primary Industry, who was previously a member of the Executive of CSIRO;  Mr D.  F. McMichael, now the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service in New South Wales, but previously the Director of the Australia Conservation Foundation; and Professor R. J. Walsh, Professor of Human Genetics at Sydney University representing the Australian Academy of Science. So, the Minister has brought together, because the principle pur pose of this Bill is to appoint an Interim Council and to give it a charter, an expert and well balanced team of people with backgrounds in a number of scientific disciplines and people who have been concerned not only with science but also with administration. 
My plea to the Minister is that he gives this Interim Council the widest possible charter as to the site and the purpose of the various installations which will be associated with the Institute. I am interested - and I would be interested if the Minister would develop this - in the role of the proposed Institute as a national centre for marine science. I would hope that it would be possible to have a national centre in Townsville. But 1 am not unmindful of the fact that marine science and oceanography are carried out in our nation by many authorities - by the universities, by State government instrumentalities, and. of course, by private organisations such as petroleum companies and the like. 
Accordingly, 1 feel that one cannot establish a national centre in a field as broad as marine science. I feel that the Government should look into some coordinating system - perhaps, a national committee on oceanography - with a much broader charter than anything that we have had in Australia to this point in time. I know that there are committees, one of which I think is concerned principally with the use of facilities that the Navy makes available in its oceanographic frigates. As I have said, I welcome this Institute. What I am saying is not to be taken as criticism of the idea of establishing this facility in North Queensland, but merely as suggesting that there are some matters associated with th s Institute that should be looked at carefully and that the Minister should be guided by expert advice from the people he has appointed. 
I wonder myself whether it could be more appropriate for this institution to be known as the Australian institute of tropical marine science or, perhaps, the Great Barrier Reef institute. Everybody can have an institute of marine science but only Australia can have a Great Barrier Reef institute. The Great Barrier Reef is unique in the world. It is the largest coral reef at present in existence or, as far as is known, is the largest coral reef that has existed through geological times, from the Ordivician till now, when coral reefs have existed. 
I am interested also in the question of the site of this Institute. We all recognise that the site of an institute of this kind must be associated closely with a university where people from other scientific disciplines are available and where laboratory facilities as well as backup facilities of various kinds are available. Such an institute must be located in an area where scientists who may be carrying out research on the Reef can go to people in other scientific persuasions and with other specialities in fields such as chemistry, physics and the like - of course, the use of computers is associated with almost all levels of science today - and where they may discuss these matters and take advantage of the knowledge of their other colleagues. 
But part of a national centre for marine science would involve also backup facilities in terms of oceanographic vessels. This means port facilities, facilities for instrumentation and the care, maintenance and replacement of the equipment that an institute of marine science normally has. So. I hope that that portion of the Bill which speaks about the site of this Institute as being at or near Townsville will be flexible enough to be able to have research stations built on the Reef at places like Cairns or other areas in North Queensland which, by virtue of the fact that the Reef is closer to the shore at those places than it is at Townsville, may be better places in which to establish such a centre. I am sure that, quite apart from the buildings of the Institute itself, it WIll be necessary to put research stations actually on some of the islands in the Reef area and in the various environments that exist on the Great Barrier Reef. 
I turn to one matter of concern to people who are interested in marine science. I would hope again that the Minister will give an assurance that the establishment of this Institute in no way will mean any lessening of Federal assistance to other forms of marine science and oceanography in Australia, lt is inevitable that programmes of oceanography and marine science will be carried out by many authorities throughout a nation as large as Australia is. At the present time, the principal authority in oceanography in Australia is our own Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The headquarters of its Division of Fisheries and Oceanography is at Cronulla near Sydney. This Division has been concerned principally with the ocean as it affects the fishing industry. This work is vital. From its headquarters and from sub-stations, work has been carried out in important industries such as the crayfish industry in Western Australia, the tuna industry, the prawning industry and a whole range of fisheries research. 
Then, there is the Royal Australian Navy. Anybody who knows anything about oceanography realises the great debt that the universities, CSIRO and other organisations owe to the Royal Austraiian Navy for its co-operation with oceanography and marine research over the years. The Royal Australian Navy more recently has reestablished a submarine fleet. It is a long time since we have had a submarine fleet of our own. Now, we have 4 Oberon-class submarines and 2 more submarines of that same class on order. This means that the Navy has a very real and continuing interest in hydrography and in marine science generally. The Navy always wifi make its judgments in accordance with its defence responsibility, and that is very proper. Then, we have the Bureau of Mineral Resources. I suppose that one could say truthfully that the Bureau of Mineral Resources has carried out only a modest amount of research on the continental shelf, lt has carried out 3 major marine geophysical surveys. They were in 1965, 1967 and 1968. lt has published only I paper, in conjunction with the Scripps Institute of Oceanography, on the area between Australia and Timor. Because of the many problems associated with the continental shelf, of what we need to know about, the continental shelf, of what it means in terms of the coming of fauna and flora lo this country, and of what it means in terms of the actual coming of primitive man to this country, we need more research. I would hope that the Bureau of Mineral Resources is able to expand its activities in this field with its own specialist calling. 
I would also like to say something about the universities, because I am making a case for national co-ordination in the fields of oceanography and marine science. I think we should all recognise that the universities and Government departments have played a very great role. There is 1 organisation which has been operating in Queensland since 1922. I refer to the Great Barrier Reef Research Committee which has been associated since its inception with the University of Queensland. This organisation has a research centre on Heron Island. The research centre was established after the Second World War in 1948. A great deal of work has been done there. It has never enjoyed the assistance from the Commonwealth Government that this enterprise in Townsville will enjoy. The Barrier Reef is so large that there is a need for research in many places at the same time and at different times. I would particularly hope that the finance and the programmes which will be given to and organised through the new Institute of Marine Science, which will be located at or near Townsville, will also take into account the pioneering work that has been done by the Great Barrier Reef Committee on Heron Island and elsewhere over the period and will see that this work is nurtured, enhanced and assisted in every possible way. 
I have dealt at some length, and I suppose it is natural for a Queenslander to do so, with the Great Barrier Reef. It is something of which we are very proud. Other honourable members have spoken about the Barrier Reef as a tourist attraction and its importance from the point of view of fisheries. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  spoke, about it as a source of protein. We know that the Barrier Reef is all of these things. But while we now know a lot more about the Barrier Reef than we did 50 years ago, when we look at the tremendously rich fauna of the West Pacific and Indian Oceans, we recognise what a great deal there is yet to be learnt. When one looks at the detailed work that has been done on the Barrier Reef, one finds for example that the expedition conducted by the British Museum in 1929 on Low Island did work which has never been repeated. Indeed, the reports of that exercise were still being written into the 1940s and, I think from memory, into the early 1950s. 
So there is a great deal of work to be done on the Barrier Reef. 
The Royal Society itself in 1972 will be conducting an expedition to the Barrier Reef. We need all of this knowledge. We need all of this research. We on this side of the House are pleased that the Commonwealth Government is making this contribution. While much of the discussion is concentrated around the Barrier Reef, let us not forget that we have one of the largest continental shelves in the world. Whilst the Barrier Reef may be what one may perhaps call the glamour element of our continental shelf, there is much to be learnt about other sections of the marine environment of Australia. When one looks at the amount of money that this country spends as compared with Canada, for example, one realises that the Australian record is not as good as it might be. From the United Nations report on oceanographic research statistics in 1967 we find that Canada, which has a continental shelf of 926,800 square miles - a little bit larger than Australia's 830,148 square miles - spent $38. 55m on oceanographic research while Australia spent $2. 20m. In that same year Canada had a manpower of 500 engaged in oceanographic research while Australia had a manpower of 85. Canada had 22 research vessels in the field while Australia had 8 research vessels, and many of them were on a part time basis. So I hope that the importance that this Institute will give to the Barrier Reef does not mean that the great need for the development of other facilities in other parts of Australia - the need to encourage programmes being conducted right around our continental shelf by organisations such as the Flinders University in South Australia, universities generally, and the CSIRO - is not forgotten. The Labor Party welcomes this Bill and it trusts that it is an indication of a continued interest by the Government in research into Australian flora and fauna. 
The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  said that there were several things that would forever remain within his mind. In the speech which he has made J found that he spoke in a confused way on a number of matters and that he was evasive and divisive. First he put forward a number of his own experiences in local government matters in Queensland. None of us would deny any of these experiences, but he put them in such a way as to attack a previous Labor Government of Queensland. At the time when he went to Brisbane seeking an increased water supply for the shire of which he was a member, he was a member of the Australian Labor Party. At. a later time when unhappy events occurred in the Australian Labor Party in that State he was one of the gentlemen who sided with every Cabinet Minister bar one when the split in the Labor Party took place. 
I think it ill behoves him to be political about his approaches at that time. The Labor Government, it is true, made its mistakes like anyone else. But the Labor Government in Queensland after the Second World War made a survey of Queensland's natural resources and set under way development programmes some of which continue to the present time. The largest irrigation work carried out by any government in Queensland was the Tinaroo scheme, which was carried out for a long period of time by a Labor government. It may be that the honourable member for Kennedy is confused by the fact that the foundation stone bears the name of a Country Party Premier. But may I assure him that the scheme originated from and was planned by a Labor Government. The very city which is the centre of his electorate - Mount lsa - owes its prosperity to Mt lsa Mines Ltd. 1 would like the honourable member for Kennedy to read a book by Blainey entitled 'Mines in the Spin if ex' which points out that, without the assistance of the State Labor government over many years, thai enterprise would not exist now. In addition to this, I would like the honourable member to read about the way in which the Country Party-Nationalist pArty government of the depression days declined assistance to Mt Isa Mines Lid and nearly put it out of business. So much for the north of Queensland and the matters raised by the honourable member for Kennedy. 
The Australian Labor Party has raised for discussion today this matter of public importance because local government is important. The functions of government are to ensure the well being, comfort, health, education and betterment of people wherever they may live. We have the misfortune to live under a federal system. We all know the background to that system and the compromise that took place. We all know the differing background of local government in this country as compared with overseas. The facts of the matter are that this federal system is used by people at all levels of government to pass the buck. There is no level of government to which this more aptly or more readily applies than local government. In Great Britain and in Western (Europe, national government arose out of local government Local government therefore is stronger and. in most cas?s, much better financed than it is in this country. 
Local government in Australia, as a level of State government and State administration, by and large arose out of the convict settlements and the old authoritarian governments as set up before Australia had representative government in 1S52. Australian local government has never recovered from its origins or from the fact that it is a level of delegated responsibility from the State governments. The Brisbane City Council, whose case and some of whose special disabilities I intend to p'ace before the House very briefly, is 3 months older than the State of Queensland, lt has a budget larger than that of Tasmania, lt has many budgetary problems. These are obvious in the Brisbane City Council because they all can be put together in the one document. 
Greater Brisbane amalgamated 20 !o;al authorities and several boards at the time it was formed. In the other State capitals, these responsibilities are carried out  still by a multitude of small local authorities and many boards. They are not carried out .as economically, soundly or efficiently as they are administered by the centralised administration of the city of Brisbane. I thank the honourable member for Kennedy for the kind remarks that he made about the present Lord Mayor and administration for their very substantial achievements in Brisbane. But there are a number or  ways in which this centralised scheme in Brisbane is disadvantaged financially and 1 feci that in some of these fields avenues exist for Commonwealth assistance. Allow me to give the House some examples. 
Firstly, the Brisbane City Council carries a substantial transport deficit. This is brought about by the fact that transport in the city, with the exception of railways, is the function of the local government. In Sydney and Melbourne, for example, these transport deficits are carried by the State government concerned. This means that the Commonwealth Government through its taxation reimbursements assists to pay the transport deficits in Sydney, Melbourne and other southern capitals whereas this charge is carried by the ratepayers in the city of Brisbane. 
Again, certain Commonwealth activities cast an increased burden on local government. I will give some examples of this. The city of Brisbane makes concessions to pensioners, both repatriation and social services, by way of transport passes and other concessions, lt grants very substantial rates concessions to pensioners. In the southern capitals, these transport concessions  would be made by State government authorities and, to some extent, the cost of those concessions would be met by taxation reimbursements from the Commonweailth. 
Further, Brisbane has a major airport at Eagle Farm where a new terminal will be built - we hope rather sooner than later - and the very complex installation that will rise there with Commonwealth expenditure will impose needs on the city of Brisbane for roads or for rapid transport access by railway or the like to that airport. Again, a substantial measure of this cost accrues to the local government authority. I believe that the Commonwealth Government could make grants to local authorities to assist them in matters such as airports where the Commonwealth has the responsibility to provide the facility but where the provision of that facility imposes a great burden on the relevant local authority. 
Other Commonwealth activities cause concern to local authorities. I have had some complaints from individual electors living downstream from the Enoggera Army camp in Brisbane. Recently, the developments undertaken there - the cutting down of trees and the erection of further buildings - have meant that when a decent downpour of rain or a period of heavy rainfall occurs in Brisbane people are being flooded in this area because of drainage problems. So, the development of this defence installation has meant an increase in cost by the provision of additional drainage facilities to the Brisbane City Council. 1 believe, and the Australian Labor Party believes, that more pan be done by the Commonwealth to assist local authorities directly. I know than an improvement was made as far as the cities are concerned by the provisions of the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act which grant financial aid to local authorities. But, in relation to that scheme, the Queensland Government has channeled most of the money to the Main Roads Department. Only $670,000 came in the last financial year to the Brisbane City Council. The Main Roads Department, which is required to spend a certain amount of its money in urban areas, spent millions of dollars on work but nothing really went back to the local authority. 
I believe that the Commonwealth could  look at the question of paying rates to local authorities in respect of Commonwealth property. In the last financial year the provisions which enabled the Commonwealth not to pay rates on Commonwealth owned land cost the Brisbane City Council $212,000. 1 believe that in many other ways the Commonwealth Government could assist local authorities. We, on the Labor side of this Parliament, do not believe that the Commonwealth Government should do what the State governments do with regard to local government. The State governments shrug their shoulders and regard local government as a level of government which is no concern of theirs. Local government is the form of government closest to the people, ft is tremendously important to the people. It is time that the Commonwealth Government was involved directly in the problems of local government. 
Has the Minister for the Interior or the Northern Territory Administration received a request by Aboriginals at Roper River for a title to 5,000 square miles of the Arnhem Land Reserve and assistance to establish a co operative? What is the present position with this request? Has any decision been made? Will the Minister give sympathetic consideration lo the wishes of the Aboriginal people? 
The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  has made a very powerful speech and in view of what he said I think I should devote some of my time to spelling out the attitude of the Australian 
Labor Party on some of the matters which were raised in what I have said was such a very powerful speech. The Deputy Prime Minister made many references to the Labor Party; to the alleged left wing direction to which the Party is supposed to be subject; to mob rule; to Communism - 'more than a smell of Communist influence' was the term the right honourable gentleman, used - and to the fact that in his belief Labor would take action which would imperil our treaty associations with the United States and leave us virtually naked and alone in this part of the world. 
Let us look at the basis on which the right honourable gentleman has made his allegations. First of all, he referred to the matter of public importance that we desired to discuss, namely, the withdrawal of all Australian forces in Vietnam and international action to end hostilities and undertake rehabilitation in Indo-China. He made the point that we made no distinction between our allies and our enemies in the matter of rehabilitation. I think that what the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said is true, that every man in this House would want to see peace come to Indo-China and remain in our part of the world, but it is one of the lessons of history that when a war is over all of the people concerned have to be rehabilitated. We are too close to the Vietnam war to be making value judgments on numbers of these things but I think we all recall that after the Second World War the Western countries - Great Britain and the United States in the case of Germany, and very much so the United States in the case of Japan - contributed greatly to the rehabilitation of those war torn countries which had been our enemies but a short time previously. 
The Labor point of view is that peace will come to Indo-China, not by military means alone - because the military events which have taken place in Indo-China have been discredited in the United States, in Australia, in Great Britain and throughout the world - but by proper international settlement, an international settlement which takes into account ethnic and political considerations and the wishes and needs of the people of Vietnam, South and North, the people of Laos and the people of Cambodia. 
The right honourable gentleman went on to associate the Labor Party with the recent demonstrations at the home of one of his colleagues. We know that he was referring to the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes).  I would think there was not a man on this side of the House who would not dissociate himself, as I dissociate myself, from any intrusion into a man's private home and any intimidation of his family. I certainly disassociate myself from that kind of thing and I think it ill becomes the right honourable gentleman to suggest that the Labor Party would condone such an intrusion. The people who took part in the demonstration did not assist any cause with which the Labor Party would care to associate itself by their disgraceful actions there recently. We have been told that we show violent opposition to the rule of law and that we stand for mob rule. There have been 2 examples of that recently when Ministers and members on the Government side have seen fit to attempt to associate this Party with violence in the streets. One was the Moratorium early in the year. Happily that passed off peacefully in that I know of no person who was injured in the course of any of the very large demonstrations which took place at that time. The second example relates to the situation today. 
I do not know what happened in every capital city of Australia but I do know what was arranged to happen in Brisbane. There were not mass strikes. There was a public meeting at which the Trades and Labour Council sought the support of a wide range of people throughout the community particularly to assist pensioners in their fight for a pension which would give them a reasonable standard of living. A permit was sought to hold a meeting in a public place, advertisements were placed in the newspapers and the attendance of police was arranged, as it always is at these functions, to ensure that the meeting took place in an orderly and responsible way. That has always been the attitude of the Labor Party. We do not stand for mob rule; we stand for law and order. We believe in law and order in Indo-China and throughout the world. 
We believe that the history of recent times has shown just bow little can be achieved by military involvement. What has the war done for the people of Vietnam? lt has given the Government of South Vietnam, if you take the principles on which the Government puts its points of view, the opportunity to consolidate its position in the countryside of that nation and to make friends with its own population. We are told that the pacification programme has been a spectacular success, and we are told that Australian troops are now training SOO leaders in jungle warfare and the like in order that responsibility in the future may be assumed by the Government of South Vietnam. That is akin to the Nixon Doctrine which was submitted recently to the world by the  President  of the United States that any nation in our region will have, to stand on its own feet. The  President  of the United Stales clearly indicated that there would be no more Vietnams. This means that he has recognised the fact that Vietnam has been a futile exercise. Only time will tell whether the sacrifices made by young Australians in Vietnam have produced any permanent advantage to the people of that country. 
The Labor Party introduced this matter today, not because we believe in mob rule and the kinds of things that were ascribed to us but because we feel that we should put our point of view within the Parliament of this nation and put the Government in the position where it is able to state its point of view on a number of important matters. As follows in debates of this kind, the Government has leaned strongly on the aspect of aggression from the North and on the military side of the issue. That has been dealt with as well by speakers on our side. But there are other important points of view that the Opposition puts to the House. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has said that Australian troops will be withdrawn commensurate with the withdrawals being made by the United States. I point out that the Philippines has already withdrawn its 2,400 troops following the recent election there so that Australia in withdrawing its troops will not be alone. In other words, we are asking that Australia spell out a timetable, as the United States  President  has spelled out a timetable, for the withdrawal of troops. We agree with our Prime Minister that if we withdraw some of our troops we cannot leave a fairly small number behind if their situation will be imperilled. The Labor Party believes that the time has now come when we should withdraw all of our troops. 
Another important feature of the matter we have raised is the taking of international action to end hostilities. We have yet to see what diplomatic initiatives this country is taking to help the efforts of the United States to end the war through diplomatic negotiations. Unfortunately we have given the impression throughout the world, particularly throughout our part of the world, that we just tag along and leave the United States with all of the larger responsibilities. The Labor Party does not believe that Australia is without some influence in the world and we would like to hear of the diplomatic efforts that the Government is making to end the war. 
Finally there is the question of rehabilitation. This is one thing about which honourable members on the Government side hardly ever talk. Having involved ourselves militarily in Vietnam surely there is an obligation on us to do something at the end of the war to help restore that war torn country. The problems are very great indeed. There is the problem of an economy which is geared almost entirely to the very substantial troop involvement of the United States, Australia and a small number of other nations. As those troops are withdrawn South Vietnam will be faced with tremendous problems, and we have yet to hear the Government spell out what it proposes to do about those problems. We know that in the Budget which has yet to be debated military expenditure in Vietnam shows a tapering off but we see no provision for an increase in civil aid and in economic assistance. Aid of that kind will be absolutely essential if Australia is to discharge its responsibilities in this part of the world in the years ahead. 
The Minister for the Interior has already indicated in answer to a question by me that he is having the possibility of a cattle industry in the Arnhem Land Reserve investigated by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. Has he ordered similar investigations into the possibilities of cattle mustering or other similar enterprises for the Gurindji people at Wattie Creek and Wave Hill? If such a business is practicable will he consider making land available not on the principle of traditional land rights but to facilitate the setting up of an Aboriginal enterprise for a community which already exists? 
1 feel obliged, somewhat reluctantly, to spend some small portion of the time allotted to me in replying to some of the things that were said by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate). His  electorate bears the distinguished name of a person who was noted for his activities in the field of wool growing - he was a pioneer in this field - just as the honourable member for Macarthur is noted for wool gathering. He represents a great rural electorate and the rural sector of the economy is not without its problems. We learned with some interest from the honourable member that the problems of the wool industry are brought about principally by the policies of the Australian Labor Party as espoused by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and a few others. I find this rather interesting. The Australian Labor Party has been out of government in this Parliament for over 20 years. 
I do not normally make personal allusions to honourable members, as I think you will agree,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but the honourable member for Macarthur took the opportunity to direct attention to the fact that the honourable member who preceded him in the debate left the chamber . when he started to speak. I draw attention to the fact that the honourable member for Macarthur has followed the same practice and has left the chamber. The point I make is that the honourable member for Macarthur, who represents a great rural constituency - a great dairying constituency - at no time during his speech raised any specific matter which would be of advantage to the people of his electorate. On the other hand he referred to the situation in the trade union movement - more particularly the situation in the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party. He mentioned demonstrations in the streets and foreign ideologies, and he made some derogatory references to newly elected members of the Australian Labor Party in this House. it is true that there has been much unrest in the Australian community. The reason for this is, of course, 20. years of Liberal and Country Party government. If there are tensions in the Australian community; if there are people who are dissatisfied with the way in which the affairs of Australia are being conducted; and if there are people demonstrating in the streets and breaking the law, surely it is the responsibility of the Government which has been in office for 20 years that such a set of circumstances has developed in which these things are happening. Just for the sake of setting the record straight I should say that the Australian Labor Party espouses no foreign ideology: It encourages and fights for a respect for law and order. Individuals in all parties do things, at times, that we may not agree with, but no member of the Australian Labor Party has encouraged violence in the streets. Of course, a number of demonstrations has taken place in recent times. The honourable member for Macarthur made no mention of those occasions when farmers demonstrated in the various capital cities. I would be interested to know what ideology motivated these gentlemen from the soil in carrying out demonstrations to register their protest at the way in which governments of the colour of the Government in this House and in the States have treated primary industry. 
I return now to the Budget to deal more particularly with the way it affects the people in the Federal Division of Brisbane whom I have the honour to represent. This Budget has not been well received. We were told that the two previous Budgets were social welfare Budgets. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and others told us that they were social welfare Budgets. At that time it seemed to them to be the tight thing to have but now, of course, the Government has decided to acquire a new reputation: It is now a tax concession government. I believe that the Budget is a shocking document because the whole question of tax concessions and redistributing income to those people who need it most is a sham. I will, perhaps, spend some time dealing in more detail with some of these situations. 
The Brisbane Division contains many elderly people and many pensioners. At the other end of the age range it has a fairly small percentage of children, far below the Queensland and national averages. Many of these pensioners have expressed great concern to me about the very small increase of 50c made to most of the pensions in the current Budget. I am referring not only to social service pensioners but also to those men and women who have served their country in two world wars and in other wars in which we subsequently have been involved and who receive this same measly increase of 50c a week. The only substantial increase in the social services field was in the long term sickness benefit. People who are unfortunate enough to be receiving the sickness benefit for more than 6 weeks will now receive an additional $5.50 a week and an entitlement to a supplementary allowance if they pay rent. Certainly this is a useful increase and I for one appreciate this lone increase in social services. 
But the problem remains for all those other people whose income comes entirely from the Department of Social Services or the Repatriation Department or whose alternative income or additional income merely consists of savings or a small superannuation. Let us look at the position of these people. First, to make up for the fall in the value of money throughout the year, an increase of $1 in the pension would have been justified. I do not think any government should introduce a Budget which makes pensioners worse off in terms of purchasing power than they were a year earlier when the previous Budget was introduced. After all, a Budget should not only redress the disadvantages that have occurred to pensioners in the previous year but should also add some margin to cover the year ahead when similar disadvantages will occur. 
Indeed, the Budget imposes some of the disadvantages to which 1 am referring. An age pensioner receiving a full age pension, an A class widow receiving a full widow's pension or an invalid pensioner receiving a full pension will under this Budget receive an increase of 50c a week in their pensions. But a pensioner may have a telephone installed. The rental on that telephone is to go up by $4.68 for the year. So 9 weeks of the increase made in the pensions in the Budget and an additional 18c will go into paying the telephone rental increases imposed in the same Budget. Most postal charges are to go up by lc. I agree that to most pensioners this would not be an inordinate amount to pay, but it is still part of the increase in costs. Customs and excise duty on cigarettes and tobacco has gone up and excise on motor spirit has been increased by 3c a gallon. In addition, sales tax on a whole range of items has gone up from 25 per cent to 27i per cent. These are the increases that the Government has brought down as part of its programme for the coming year. 
In addition to this, the effect of the Budget on the general community will be to increase rates and taxes at State and local levels and of course rents will go up. Pensioners have come to my office in the last few days and pointed out the anomalous position with regard to the payment of the increased pension. They have said to me: 'It is all very well, but can you get us the increase straight away. Immediately the Budget came out and our landlord found we were to get an extra 50c a week he put up our rent by 50c a week, but we do not get the increase in pension until October'. Every man in this House knows this is the sort of thing that goes on from one end of Australia to the other. 
The Australian Labor Party at the last election put forward a policy for increasing the pension by $1 in February of this year and by $1 in this Budget with a view to bringing the pension up to one-quarter of average weekly male earnings. At the last Federal election we intended to take the pension progressively up to $18.50, and it would have been closer to $20 today had we been put in office. So if Labor had been returned at the last election pensions would have been substantially better off than they are. I believe that the Government has miscalculated the degree of concern in the Australian community for people on pensions, people on small incomes from superannuation and people on fixed incomes. The Government has concentrated on tax concessions; it has granted concessions to people with annual incomes up to $32,000. The Prime Minister in his policy speech said that his Government would bring in income tax concessions for people on low and middle incomes, it is interesting to see that the Prime Minister has extended the concessions as far as people on $32,000 a year. 1 would have hoped that the Government would have made meaningful concessions to people earning, say, under $5000 a year. It could have done this, because the commitment that the Prime Minister made in his policy speech was to bring about tax reforms over a 3 year programme. Surely it would have been much better to make more modest concession in the income tax of people on over $10,000 a year and to put more value into social service payments. lt is not only the pensioner but also the man on a fairly small income or on a middle income, say a person under $5,000 a year, who will be affected by the Budget. Lel us look at the effect of the Budget on him. The reduction in tax for a taxpayer with an annual taxable income of $2,500 will be $32.90. For a man with a taxable income of $3,000 a year the reduction will be $46.12 and for a man on $3,500 a year the reduction will be $60.58. That means that the person on the basic wage or a little more will receive less under these tax concessions than the pensioner will receive from this Budget. This man, very often a family man with children to keep at school, a wife to maintain and a house to rent or pay off, will face increases in sales tax and in the cost of a telephone - it will be $7 a year for him - which the Budget imposes. lt is of the nature of things in a Budget debate that we draw attention to anomalies and things that are not covered by the Budget. I would like to mention  2  cases in the social services field. One relates to farmers affected by drought. One of the things that interest me in this place is that this Liberal-Country Party coalition Government has been in office for so long and yet so many problems associated with rural industries have not been solved - for instance, the problems of finance,  i  know that no-one will solve the problems of drought. But generally speaking a farmer or. for that matter, a business man with a small business who becomes ill, even for a long period, has no entitlement to social service benefits because he is a self employed person. When we get a drought situation such as exists today in western Queensland, north western New South Wales and throughout the Northern Territory there should be some way - I do not think it is beyond the power of our legal people and legislators to work out the appropriate ways - by which unemployment benefit can be paid to people in rural industries. I know that the Queensland Treasury in times of drought may give concessions to rail transport for starving stock and for fodder and in other ways. Surely it should be possible to do something for the men on the land who are normally self employed but who by virture of the drought are not earning anything and who also by virtue of the drought are not able to dispose of their properties or the other assets that they have. 
I would like to raise another anomaly in the social services field, ft is one that I have referred to the Minister for Social Services on several occasions, and it relates to people who come to this country from Australian Territories after having been there for a considerable period. We all know that the Social Services Act provides that one should live and be taxed in this country for 10 years before being entitled to an age pension. A person who came to Australia healthy and actually worked, hut who suffered an accident or became ill, becomes entitled to an invalid pension after having been in Australia for only 5 years. 
But I know of a case - and I would not think there would be very many people in exactly the same position- of a man who is now 75 years of age and who is a naturalised Australian citizen, having been naturalised in 1962. He previously lived in New Guinea. He came to Australia in April 1968 and at that time he had a certain amount of money in the bank. He had been in New Guinea for 11 years and paid tax there but not actually to the Australian Treasury. He is in the position that he cannot be assisted by an age pension until be has been in this country for 10 years. He cannot be assisted by an invalid pension at the end of 5 years because he has not worked in this country. 
The only form of assistance available to him is the special benefit of $10 a week - now $10.50 a week under the present Budget. But in order to bring this about this man has to be destitute. The sad part about our social services system is that problems are solved only in the mass. There are plenty of small anomalies under the social services legislation whereby people are excluded from any assistance at all. I have mentioned the case of the farmer in a drought situation. I have also mentioned the case of this gentleman whose name I will not state but it is well known to the Minister for Social Services. This man spent a considerable period in New Guinea carrying out work which was very important to Australia and an Australian territory. I think it is an anomalous position. In fact, it is a shocking situation that he has to be destitute before anything can be done for him. When he gets down to having $100 in the bank he can then get the princely sum of $10.50 a week. This has to last him until April 1978 when he will have the age pension entitlement. At that point of time this man would be 83. Our social services system recognises that people, through hard work and prudence, may accumulate a certain amount of capital. A person can have $5,600 in the bank but no income and still draw a full pension. It seems to me an anomalous position that a person who has come to this country after having served in an Australian territory and having a modest degree of savings has to render himself destitute before he can be assisted. 
Of course, there is also the question of child endowment which has not been increased. The Government has made taxation concessions principally to people who on the standards by which I have been brought up would be regarded as having large incomes. But there are ways in which people on low incomes could have been helped. One of them is by an increase in child endowment and another, of course, is an increase in the allowable deductions for wife and children. The Federal electorate of Brisbane has a substantial number of elderly people. It also has a substantial number of nursing homes, as we call them. 
I very much regret that the Budget does not give any increase in the general rate of subsidy for patients in nursing homes. The subsidy has remained at $2 a day since 1953, with the exception of the intensive care subsidy which has been increased to $5 a day for people who require a greater amount of nursing. I think this increase was granted in the Budget about 2 years ago. When this legislation was first brought down by the Government in the early 1950s I was one of those people who were fairly sceptical about the setting up of private nursing homes and convalescent homes with Government assistance to do the work that had been previously carried out by organisations such as Eventide Home in Sandgate, which is in the electorate of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  and similar institutions throughout Australia. 
I have seen conditions as a result of collecting postal votes and from many other contacts before I was elected to Parliament and since. Because of the problems that are raised to me as a member of Parliament I have seen that the small nursing home does a good job. It provides a degree of contact with the local community which is not possible in the case of a large institution situated 20 or 30 miles away. A great number of nursing homes have been built and a great measure of capital is going into them at the moment. Many people have found that it is highly profitable to build a nursing home to cater for 100 or 150 patients. I wonder whether this sort of enterprise is not defeating some of the positive features of the nursing home scheme. It seems to me that a nursing home which caters for fewer than 40 patients best produces that relationship of personal care and friendly atmosphere - the lack of an institutional atmosphere which we regret to note in some of the larger institutions run by State governments. There is a very real need for an increase in the subsidy paid to those people who are inmates of nursing homes. 
Recently in Queensland substantial increases in salaries were paid to nurses. I do not think there would be any person in the Queensland community or in this House who was not pleased to see this. We have had a great problem in the nursing profession right throughout Australia because of the low level of remuneration to these young girls. Many of them - perhaps most of them - approach their work with a great deal of dedication and sacrifice in terms of long hours worked. Sometimes, too, they work under poor working conditions. But the result of this increased remuneration has been that many elderly people are calling on their sons and daughters to help maintain them in nursing homes. In some cases nursing homes have evicted some of these old people, and there are record waiting lists for all of the State government institutions and various institutions conducted by churches and charitable concerns. So I would like to express my concern and regret that no increase was made in this Budget in the subsidy paid in respect of people living in nursing homes. I feel it is one of the greatest anomalies of this Budget and it certainly affects a great number of people with whom I have had contact over recent times. 
There is another matter which is of concern to Commonwealth public servants, namely that there is no increase in this Budget in the rate of superannuation paid, despite the fact that the Government some years ago said that it would increase and adjust superannuation on a notional salary basis from time to time. It is several years - I think it was in 1967 - since that was last done, and many Commonwealth public servants, particularly those who retired a great number of years ago and whose superannuation is only small, are suffering from the same discrimination from which the pensioners suffer, excepting that in many cases they do not receive such concessions as rate concessions and concessions on the registration of motor vehicles that pensioners frequently receive. 
In the short time available to me I would like to mention briefly 2 other points. I support the remarks made by my colleagues the honourable members for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  and Ryan  (Mr Drury)  in which they sought further financial assistance for the University of Queensland to overcome the very serious problems of overcrowding and the unsatisfactory staff-student ratio at the University of Queensland at St Lucia. I wish to draw attention also to the anomaly whereby the university at Mount Gravatt - the so called Griffith University - which was to have been admitting students now will obviously not be built until 1978 or later. 
Finally, I would like to register my concern that no appropriation is proposed in this Budget for the Eagle Farm Airport. We in Queensland have been waiting for a long time to have something done at Eagle Farm, not just for the sake of giving us a more attractive and beautiful air terminal - however important that is to a tourist State such as Queensland - but also because the moving of these facilities to the other end of the airport will be a very important factor in reducing the level of noise and inconvenience to people in the area. We see that an additional amount of over$1 5m is to be appropriated for expenditure at Tullamarine in Melbourne. For my part I should like to register my concern as the member representing the federal division of Brisbane - and I think 1 speak on behalf of all metropolitan members from Brisbane - that no start has been made on the Eagle Farm terminal. We have been told that that this project will be completed by 1975. Because of the time that has been shown to be necessary for the development of the new facilities at Sydney and at Tullamarine, it is obvious that the Government has broken its undertaking in this matter, as it has in so many other matters. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What number of votes was cast for each subdivision of each Brisbane metropolitan Federal electoral division at the Brisbane City Hall on the occasion of the 1969 general election. 
Tonight we are debating the estimates of the 
Department of External Affairs. It has been quite an interesting exercise, because we have had a range of frank statements made by members on both sides of the chamber. I would like to make some comments on those things which have been said in the last 2 speeches by members on the Government side, both being gentlemen from South Australia. I refer to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  I noted with interest that almost the concluding comment made by the honourable member for Angas was that he hopes the Government will not cut down the number of troops in South Vietnam until those forces have made the contribution that they can make and are about to make to the stability of Phuoc Tuy Province. I am not quite sure what the honourable member for Angas meant when he said this. Whether he was suggesting that Australian troops should remain behind in South Vietnam after the American withdrawal is completed I do not know. We know that  President  Nixon has set a target to have the greatest number of his troops withdrawn by halfway through 1 97 1 . I would recognise, although I do not agree with the Australian presence in South Vietnam, that our forces over there have carried out their duties in the best traditions of the Australian armed forces and I believe very sincerely that they have endeavoured to make a contribution to the welfare of those people in the province for which they have had a measure of responsibility. 
I wish that the Government in the estimates we are discussing had shown some greater measure of concern for the people of South Vietnam, because what worries me, and what I am sure worries any member in this place or in the Senate who has been to South Vietnam, is the problem that remains, presuming all the things the Government claims come to pass. Let us presume that the government of South Vietnam led by  President  Thieu and VicePresident Ky suddenly won the hearts and minds of the people they purport to represent. Let us suppose that after the withdrawal of the forces from outside countries the Vietnamisation programme will be so successful that the South Vietnamese Government will be able to maintain control of the administration of the country. Then the vast problem would still remain of facilitating the change of the economy of South Vietnam from a wartime economy to a peacetime economy. 
The thing that worried me most when I was there - and I would agree that I have not been there since 1966  -  is that so much of the economy of South Vietnam is directed towards the presence of particularly the American troops stationed in that country. One knows that in all the cities one finds hamburger bars, car washing establishments and a whole range of activities associated with the presence of the American forces and, of course, 1 daresay the same applies in Phuoc Tuy Province, associated with the Australian forces, although to a somewhat more limited extent. As the military involvement in Vietnam is phased out by the United States of America and by ourselves we yet remain to see a programme of economic aid capable not only of paying the way of the Government of South Vietnam but of enabling the orderly transition of the economy of that country from the situation that we have known over the past few years to a situation perhaps similar to that which exists in South Korea in the aftermath of the Korean war. 
Although these estimates provide $500,000 in special aid to South Vietnam in no way do they reflect the urgency of the problem of reconstruction and rehabilitation which still remains in that country. The honourable member for Boothby commented that we are withdrawing troops and on this he differed a little from his predecessor, the honourable member for Angas. He did not express any hope that troops would not be withdrawn but he said we would be withdrawing troops because our policies were succeeding. He then went on to a number of matters about the Pacific Ocean and the Indian Ocean. 1 would like to deal fairly briefly with some matters associated with the Pacific Ocean. In recent years we have been very much orientated towards South East Asia. This is not the work of the present Government, because it goes back to the Chifley Government when, under the ANZAM agreement, Australia and New Zealand together with Britain committed themselves to defend Malaya because they considered it to be vital to the defence of Australia. In the time that we have been oriented primarily towards South East Asia I do not feel that we have paid sufficient attention to the Pacific. The honourable member for Boothby mentioned this aspect. He expressed the view that we should take more interest in the Pacific but he said that there was no threat from that quarter in the foreseeable future. 
I would stress to the Parliament, particularly the Minister for External Affairs and his Department, that notwithstanding that there is no immediate threat from the people of the Pacific, this is an area of the world in which Australia, because of its long geographical and historical associations, has a great responsibility which is not being met in the way we should meet such responsibilities. Harking back to the early days - let us not forget that we have just celebrated the bi-centenary of Captain Cook's landing - we must realise that the missionary enterprises which settled in the Pacific were centred very largely on the small settlement established at Port Jackson in 1788. With sealing, whaling and sandalwood enterprises, and somewhat later blackbirding, followed by the establishment of the sugar industry in Queensland, Australians of that era were probably more intimately connected with the Pacific and realised more acutely their connection with the Pacific than Australians today. In this regard we are compared by the peoples of the Pacific with our sister dominion New Zealand. New Zealand has a substantial Maori population. Because of this and because of the responsibility New Zealand has for people of similar race to the Maoris in the Cook Islands, the Tokelau Islands and Niue, New Zealanders have developed firm and friendly relations with the peoples of the Pacific in a way which Australia has not been able to do. Consequently the peoples of the Pacific look upon New Zealand in rather more kindly fashion than they look upon Australia. 
This Parliament is at the moment represented at the South Pacific Conference in Suva by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair),  another member of this chamber and a member of the other place. This is right and proper. I regret that it is several years since we were represented at the South Pacific Conference. I hope that Australia may be represented at all future conferences because it is very important that we play a leading role in the Pacific. I would hope that we look at the needs of Pacific nations even more sympathetically in the future than we have in the past. I commend the Department for the increase in the aid programme for the South Pacific from $500,000 to $700,000 this year but I still say that the amount is too small. When compared with what we spend in other places it is patently too small. 
The honourable member for Boothby dealt at some length with Russia's penetration into the Indian Ocean. I found rather interesting - I hope I did not misinterpret what he said - his statement that 40 warships and 1 nuclear submarine were involved. My understanding is that the Russians have recently negotiated for a naval base at Socotra. I also understand that overtures made to India and Ceylon have not borne fruit and that the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean at the moment is fairly modest. I do not discount these things because 1 believe that Australia has a responsibility to maintain a defence capacity over areas adjoining the Australian mainland. I agree with many of the things which the honourable member suggested should be done, although I do not agree that the Russian involvement in the Indian Ocean is such that there is an urgency about the matter at this stage. 
The honourable member suggested that we should co-operate with Indonesia and South Africa. I wonder why he omitted from his considerations our very important sister dominion of India, because, with all due respect to our Indonesian neighbours, the Indians have a navy which in the last war made a substantial contribution. If we are to co-operate with people in the Indian Ocean area, as I agree we should, we should not disregard India's capacity to make a contribution. In the event of a threat of a third world war I do not think it would be any more difficult to get India to come to the party than it would be to persuade Indonesia to do so. I realise the difficulties associated with obtaining the co-operation of either country because of their policies of non-alignment in world affairs. 
In this debate a great deal of attention has been focused on comments made by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr 
Bryant) about Cambodia and Vietnam. It has been said that in some way the honourable member has expressed views on Cambodia that are away from the mainstream of Labor Party thought. The honourable member for Boothby said that Labor's policy was a mystery. I cannot understand why this should be so. One of the difficulties confronting the Labor Party, because of the way it is treated by the media, is the manner in which its policy is thrashed out in public by people who are democratically elected by the Party's organisations in the various States. Every 2 years the Labor Party produces a booklet entitled 'Platform, Constitution and Rules'. This is freely available. It explains the Party's policy. 
That is so. Our conferences are held in public. The television cameras are admitted. The press is admitted. This situation contrasts with that which exists in the Liberal Party, whose policy is not available in a similar way for public discussion. The Liberal Party's policy is determined by faceless men who meet behind locked doors. Like all other honourable members on this side of the chamber, the honourable member for Wills is concerned about what is happening to people in Cambodia, Laos and South Vietnam. The great weaknesses in the Government's policies in relation to this part of the world are the different values which it ascribes to those countries. If it is true that the presence of North Vietnamese troops in South Vietnam represents China sweeping down between the Indian and Pacific Oceans, as we were told by former Prime Minister  Sir Robert  Menzies, it is no less true that the presence of North Vietnamese troops in Laos and Cambodia poses a similar threat to Australia. But the Government has not seen fit to involve itself in the affairs of those countries, not because the troops of North Vietnam are not there but because the forces of the United States are not officially there in the way they have been present in South Vietnam. In other words, the Government's policy towards those countries shows inconsistency. Ours does not. 
The Labor Party has opposed the involvement of outside forces in Vietnam. We want to see a government survive in South Vietnam. We hope eventually to see the 2 portions of that divided country reach a settlement satisfactory to themselves. We recognise that this is not a simple task, just as it has not been simple in Korea and Germany. On the other hand, we believe that the independence and integrity of small countries like Cambodia and Laos are important to us because we, too, are a small country. There is no hypocrisy or dichotomy on this side. The only hypocrisy and dichotomy rest on the Government side because if the reasons for which this Government involved Australia in South Vietnam are true, it has a lot of explaining to do about its different view towards Cambodia and Laos. 
Progress reported. 
Before speaking about the general matters to which  1  intend to devote my attention tonight,  1  should like to make some comment on the remarks made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  I noted wilh interest that in his advocacy for various improvements in the Territory he suggested that if a greater remuneration were offered to members of the Legislative Council there might be some changes in the Council. I trust that that does not mean that members who belong to the same parties as honourable members opposite are not so gifted with public spirit that they would offer themselves for election to the Council in the interests of the people of the Northern Territory notwithstanding the disadvantage under which members of the Council presently operate, the present Government having been in office for over  20  years. In the several speeches which the honourable member for the Northern Territory has made in this session he has not devoted a great deal of his time - or perhaps any of his time - to the Aboriginal inhabitants of the Territory to whom I intend to refer tonight. 
The proportion of Aboriginals vis-a-vis other citizens of the Northern Territory is the highest in Australia. Recently several members of the Aboriginal Affairs Committee of the Australian Labor Party paid a visit to several areas in the Northern Territory. Firstly,  1  should like to thank the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon), Mr Giese  and the officers of the Welfare Branch in all the places that we visited for their co-operation in making a fairly short visit to the Northern Territory as informative and educational as possible. I intend to devote the rest of my time tonight to speaking about the situation at Wattie Creek near the Wave Hill welfare settlement where a group of Aboriginals have been living for several years. I am sorry that the Minister is not in the chamber at the moment. 
 I realise that he was here for the earlier part of the debate. The Minister recently made a speech in which he said that it was not the Government's policy to recognise traditional land rights. He cast doubts on whether Wattie Creek was part of the traditional land of the Gurindji people. He said that were it practical to set up industries or enterprises the Government would assist the Gurindji people to set up such enterprises, but this was nol the case. He also said that contract mustering, which had been suggested as a suitable industry, was on the wane. I do not think that I have unfairly represented what the Minister said. 
Some suggestions have been made that the Gurindji people at Wattie Creek are there because they have been manipulated by people outside. We know that many people in Australia have taken an interest in the plight of the Gurindji people. The Australian Council of Churches. Abschol the National Union of University Students, many university people, trade unions, Aboriginal rights organisations and of course many individuals have taken an interest in them. The settlement at: Wattie Creek is the Gurindjis own idea. In August  1966  there was a strike, for award wages, on many pastoral stations in the Northern Territory and at that time a group of Aboriginal people - most of them were Gurindjis - went to camp near the Wave Hill welfare settlement and later to their present site at Wattie Creek. 
The first point I should like to make is that the Wattie Creek site is the Gurindjis' own idea. It was their idea that they should establish a settlement. The annual report of the Welfare Branch of the Northern Territory for  1968-69  makes this comment: 
In two areas at least - East Arnhem Land and the Wave Hill area - pressures quite unconnected with traditional behaviour have, in fact, encouraged strong interest in land, and brought closer identification with traditional geographical areas than is normally the case. 
Although the Welfare Branch ascribes motives with which I do not agree, it agrees that the Aboriginals at Wattie Creek have a strong attachment to the land in that area. What is the attachment of the Aboriginal people to the land? This is the site of their own choice. I should like to quote from Professor Stanner, in a booklet entitled 'After  the Dreaming', which contains the Boyer lectures for 1968. He said: 
No English words are good enough to give a sense of the links between an Aboriginal group and its homeland. Our word 'home', warm and suggestive though it be, does not match the Aboriginal word that may mean 'camp*, 'hearth', country', 'everlasting home', 'totem place', 'life source', 'spirit centre' and much else all in one. Our word 'land' is too spare and meagre. We can now scarcely use it except with economic overtones unless we happen to be poets. The Aboriginal would speak of 'earth' and use the word in a richly symbolic way to mean his 'shoulder' or his side'. I have seen an Aboriginal embrace the earth he walked on. To put our words 'home' and 'land' together into 'homeland' is a little better but not much. A different tradition leaves us tongueless and earless towards this other world of meaning and significance. When we took what we call 'land' we took what to them meant hearth, home, the source and locus of life, and everlastingness of spirit. At the same time it left each local band bereft of an essential constant that made their plan and code of living intelligible. Particular pieces of territory, each a homeland, formed part of a set of constants without which no affiliation of any person to any other person, no link in the whole network of relationships, no part of the complex structure of social groups any longer had all its co-ordinates. 
He went on to say: 
We are watching a little miracle when we see men who, having been made homeless, again pull their world together sufficiently to try to make another home for themselves, like the Gurindji at Wattie Creek. It is something which people brought up on ideas of land as 'real estate' or leasehold' find difficult to understand. 
Now, what is wrong with the Wattie Creek settlement? Why is it that the Government has not accepted this settlement? 1 put it to the House that it is because this was the Aboriginals' choice. One of the problems throughout all of these situations is that the Welfare Branch of the Northern Territory Administration, the State Department of Aboriginal Affairs, or whoever the administration might be, always knows best. We are told that the site at the Wave Hill settlement is a much better site. But it is not without its disadvantages as well and I will quote from the report of the Welfare Branch for 1967-68 in which it said about Wave Hill: 
Wave Hill Welfare Centre is situated 280 miles south west of Katherine, near the Wave Hill Police Station. During the wet season Wave Hill may be cut off from overland contact for periods of up to four months. 
So we realise that there are now some difficulties associated with the site at Wave Hill where the Government is building these homes. I am not knocking what the Gov ernment has done at Wave Hill. 1 note that there are applicants for most of these sites but I believe that only one of them is from a Gurindji family. But there is also the need to cater for those other Aboriginals who choose to live at Wattie Creek. I believe the reason that they choose to live at Wattie Creek is that they desire to be independent from the cattle properties, particularly Vestey's, and the Welfare Branch for part of the year. Surely this is no bad thing. 
May I quote from the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  a statement which was issued on 8th October of last year? The Prime Minister said this: 
We believe that Aboriginals should be able to retain features of their own culture where they so choose. The work of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies, which was set up by us, will help here. We are encouraging Aboriginal handicrafts and arts. We aim to create a higher degree of mutual respect between Aboriginal Australians and other Australians. 
Further on in his speech he said: 
We do not intend to take the easy way of deciding everything for the Aboriginals, and telling them what they are to do and what they are to be. Instead, we will take the slower and better way of consulting them, and working out plans in accordance with their real wishes. 
I put it to the House that the Gurindji people at Wattie Creek have been clearly and consistently now for over 4 years expressing what their real wishes are and that the Government has ignored those wishes. 
What we are asking is that the Gurindji be given sufficient land and assistance to maintain a settlement on the site of their own choice and that they be assisted to establish such enterprises as will enable them to be as self-supporting as they can be. Let us look at this question. We are told that no employment is offering. I again turn back to reports of the Welfare Branch in recent years. In 1967-68 it had this to say: 
Following an extremely good wet season in 1967, and top prices being offered at both West Australian and Northern Territory meatworks, labour was at a premium. All stations in the district were in fact affected by the lack of labour. At the end of 1967, during the normal wet season lay-off, most stations preferred to continue the employment of stock-camp workers, a practice not normally followed in previous years. These workers were used ostensibly on station improvements but at the same time ensured that labour would be available for the commencement of the 1968 mustering season. 
It goes on to say: 
Another good wet season in 1968 created an equally great demand for labour. During the whole of the year, efforts were made by some pastoralists to introduce European labourinto the district, but achieved only minor success. The majority of Europeans were young and inexperienced; they found stock-camp work both arduous and not to their liking; and  did  not remain long on the job. There was not one station in the district that did not apply to the Branch-- 
That is the Welfare Branch - for assistance in recruiting Aboriginal labour. Again in the following year in the Welfare Branch report we find the comment that the labour demand was strong. The report stated: 
Some stations, both large and small, were beginning to makeuse of contract musterers. 
This is what the Minister said had a limited future. The report continued: 
These contractors obtained Aboriginal labour either from populations no longer attached to stations (such as the Wattie Creek population) or from settlements or the town area of Katherine. 
It goes onto give further details. I would like to put it to the Mouse and to the Minister that what he has said so far is not tremendously convincing. All the evidence is that employment is offering. If, as the Minister says, contract mustering is on the decline because the properties are being fenced, then why not contract fencing? Let the Minister table the result of surveys made by his Department or by other instrumentalities such as the Bureau of Agricultural Economics into what enterprises and activities are practicable for the Aboriginals in this area. What this Parliament has to recognise is that this is a community of Aboriginal people. 
I am not making a claim, which could be made in other parts of the Northern Territory, that Aboriginals be given possession of their traditional land. In many of these places the Aboriginals have lost that intimate contact with their land that exists elsewhere. Current court cases prevent me from mentioning precisely the areas I would like to mention. But it is a fact that the Aboriginals have a community and they have an attachment to this area. I think they deserve more sympathetic consideration than has been given by the Government and by the Minister. This is not merely a demand for political purposes - not merely a demand made by politicians. It is the earnest belief of the majority of Australians, the majority of Australian churches, the Australian Council of Churches, trade unions and all of those interested in the advancement of Aboriginals. Frank Hardy in the 'Australian' rightly said that Wattie Creek is the watershed of race relations in Australia. I would like the Minister to have a new look at the situation there, not to be hidebound by his past decisions but to look honestly and sympathetically at the situation of the people of Wattie Creek and to assist them to gain a title to a piece of land where they might erect a settlement on a site of their own choice and to consult with them and to assist them in establishing such industries or enterprises as may prove viable and practicable in the circumstances. 
I wish to direct my attention to that section of the estimates of the Prime Minister's Department which covers matters dealing with the Aboriginal population of Australia. I am pleased that the Minister for Social Services and Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  is at the table. I am moved to speak in this debate by the fact that the honourable member for the Northern Territory (Mr Calder) last night raised some matters about the Wattie Creek situation during the debate on the estimates for this Department. He made some passing reference to matters which I had previously raised in the debate on the estimates for the Department of the Interior. I felt that, in the first place. I ought to reply to some of the matters he raised. He referred to the circumstances in which the strike took place in the cattle industry in the Northern Territory in 1 966. The honourable member for the Northern Territory has purported to show that in these matters the Aboriginals now living at Wattie Creek and in the adjacent area and the Aboriginals who went on strike in 1966 were manipulated by union organisers, many of them Communists, and that the initiatives that I ascribed to the Aboriginal people in this matter did not, in fact, exist. A careful examination of the speech which I made in the debate on the estimates for the Department of the Interior would indicate that I suggested that the Aboriginals had an initiative in the choice of the site where they at present reside at Wattie 
Creek. What I said was that when the strike broke out the Aboriginals established a strikers camp near the Wave Hill welfare settlement and that subsequently they went to the site of Wattie Creek which was the site of their own choice. The honourable member for the Northern Territory has a most curious split personality on the question of advancing the Aboriginal people in the areas which he represents in this Parliament. Right throughout the speech which he made last night he poured scorn on the people who come from the south, the people representing Abschol. I I rather gathered the impression that when he referred to do-gooders and stirrers he might have included me in that number. 
But he closed his speech by suggesting the sort of people who are needed to help the Aboriginals of the Northern Territory, and he admitted that the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory needed help. He said that the people who were needed had certain qualities of patience, tenacity, a knowledge of the local people and a sympathy for the Aboriginal people. Of course we endorse all that he said in that regard. It is one of the functions of this Government to ensure that it provides adequate salaries and working conditions to encourage people to go and spend their lives working among the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory and other parts of Australia to carry out the work that should be done. The honourable member concluded his speech by saying: 
I do not think that any of the  yakkers  down here would be capable of undertaking such a task. 
It is a responsibility of this Parliament, and it has been a responsibility that members on both sides of the Parliament have accepted for a number of years, to raise in this place matters concerning the Aboriginal people. My concern is about the dichotomy which exists in the Government. Until recently the Minister for Social Services who is, under the Prime Minister, the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, was regarded as the Government spokesman in matters of this kind, but on 3rd September the Minister for the Interior made a statement in this place that the Government would not recognise traditional Aboriginal land rights. I put it to the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs that what the Minister for the Interior said ran contrary to many of the things that he himself has said. Indeed, it ran contrary to many attitudes of the Northern Territory Administration. 
If the recent legislation dealt with in the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory, which will enable Aboriginals to obtain a title to land in the Aboriginal reserves, is not a recognition of traditional land rights, what is it? If the statement made by the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs about the sacred objects and sites of the Aboriginals at Wingellina in Western Australia, in which he expressed his concern that these places should not be despoiled and damaged by the mining company or other developments there, was not a recognition of traditional land rights, what was it? I ask the Government to clear up this division in its own ranks to ensure that the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs spells out well thought out and well determined policies and that these are applied right throughout Australia. 
The attitude of the Australian Labor Party is quite clear. We recognise that the Minister has run into a lot of trouble in his dealings with the States. We know that he is seeking by negotiation to have the Slates of Queensland and Western Australia, for example, alter and remove discriminatory legislation, and we know that it is a very difficult thing to move the States. All governments, of whatever political colour, have found the problems of moving the State governments in areas that they regard as their own responsibility to be very great indeed. But there is one thing that the Commonwealth Government should do, and it involves sorting out in its own mind what its policies are. In the Northern Territory, where the Commonwealth with the assistance of the Legislative Council of that Territory is directly responsible, the Commonwealth should be setting an example to all Australia as to its enlightened policies in Aboriginal affairs. 
So my appeal is that the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs and the Minister for the Interior get together and clear up their differences. Let them work out policies, and let us not have the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs suggesting to the States policies which his own Government is not applying through the Minister for the Interior in the Northern 
Territory. It does not give me any satisfaction to be saying some of these things, but it is transparently obvious to any person interested in Aboriginal welfare in this place that these problems exist. I would like to see the Minister indicate an attitude on Aboriginal land rights; the recognition of land rights for Aboriginals who live in a traditional way; the recognition of communities of people as at Wattie Creek and the rights that they have, because they are communities of people and have retained a good deal of their tribal integrity; a measure of compensation for land rights which would be spelt out with legislation which has already been introduced into this Parliament and which will shortly again be discussed. 
We get all these curious statements by honourable members opposite. We get the honourable member for the Northern Territory suggesting that Aboriginals already have a vast amount of land in the Northern Territory reserves, and we all recognise that. Most of these reserves, certainly those in Arnhem Land, were proclaimed by the Scullin Government. The honourable member for the Northern Territory suggested also that if the Aboriginals needed land this is where they could get land. Again I feel that the Minister should ask the managers of the pastoral properties around the Wattie Creek, Wave Hill and Victoria River Downs areas how they would feel about the suggestion made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory that their Aboriginal stockmen and the workers on their stations should, if they want land, leave these areas where their employment is a vital aspect of the pastoral industry and go and live in Arnhem Land or some other Aboriginal reserve. 
We face a very serious situation. None of us would take away from the Minister his sincerity and dedication to the welfare of Aboriginal people. But if he is the spokesman for the Government on these matters, it is up to the Government to ensure that the principles laid down by the Prime Minister and the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs are carefuly thought through into a programme of action and that this programme of action and the sorts of things he has suggested to the States are applied in the Northern Teritory. In other words, we are asking the Minister to make quite clear who is the 
Government spokesman on Aboriginal affars and to lay down policies, and we are asking the Commonwealth Government to set an example in implementing those policies. 
asked the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth contributed to the cost of any science block or library in any secondary school in any Aboriginal or Island community in Australia; if so, where and to what extent. 
Has the Commonwealth assisted in the provision of library facilities in any primary school in any Aboriginal or Island community in Australia; if so, where and to what extent. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware of long delays between salary increases for Third Division clerical officers in the Commonwealth Public Service and when these increases are applied to the Fourth Division? Is the Prime Minister aware that this situation of long delay has again developed? Will he ensure that current economic restraints do not prevent a prompt adjustment to Fourth Division salaries? ls the Public Service Board seised of the urgency of this situation? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Arising out of the current economic position, what restrictions have been placed on recruitment to the Commonwealth Public Service? How long will these restrictions remain in force? Is the Prime Minister aware that many young people who intended to enter the Public Service as a career are being penalised unfairly and for an indefinite period? 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
How many sea cadets are there in each State. 
Where is each of the cadet units located and where they are located at secondary schools what are the names of the schools. 
How many permanent officers and other ranks in the Royal Australian Navy are engaged in training cadets. 
How many reserve officers and other ranks are engaged in training cadets. 
What is the total cost to the Navy of maintaining, equipping, training, accommodating and generally servicing the cadet corps. 
What amount was contributed in each of the last 3 years by the Navy League in support of the Australian Sea Cadet Corps. 
The Australian Labor Party's purpose in introducing this Bill has been to outline to the people of Australia and to this Parliament the principles which the Australian Labor Party considers vital - principles which it, in government, will carry into effect in the statute book. This Bill has been brought before the Parliament also to force the Government to bring down its own legislation because I think all members of the Parliament understand and appreciate that very many great needs for reform exist in Australia's electoral legislation. 
The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  has said some unkind things about the Australian Labor Party. If there is one thing transparently clear about the Australian Labor Party, it is that it conducts its policy making in public. Its policy is set out in a document which any person can purchase. I suppose we would supply a copy free to any person who did not have the money to buy one because we are proud of our policy. We do not beat about the bush in any way at all. 
We have introduced this legislation to indicate to the Government the principles that will underlie electoral legislation introduced by a Labor government. We have not put down all of the things that we would like to include in such a Bill. We have selected certain things which we regard as being of great importance. I pay a tribute to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  who introduced the Bill, on the brilliant speech which he made outlining the principles that will stand behind a Labor government's electoral Act. He also gave very cogent and powerful reasons why the people of Australia should support such legislation. I thought it was very appropriate that he closed with a quotation from Abraham Lincoln who is regarded as one of the principal exponents of democracy. 
After all, this is what it is all about: We want a system of government in Australia in which the people get the government for which they vote. Some unkind people say that people get the government they deserve. Leaving that aside, I believe that when people, at the ballot box, clearly vote for a Party and give that Party a clear majority that is the Party that is entitled to be elected to office. 1 go along with the statement, which 1 believe is fact, that there are today gerrymanders in all of the Australian States with the exception of Tasmania. In its time, the Labor party has been responsible for some of these gerrymanders. I do not deny that at all. I can recall two occasions in Queensland when the Labor Party was elected on gerrymandered boundaries when it ought not to have been elected. The fact of the matter is that under the system which exists at present we not only have a gerrymander federally but also, with the exception of Tasmania, we have gerrymandered boundaries in every State of the Commonwealth. Surely it is our function in this national Parliament to bring down a system of electoral law which will stand as an example to the States with their anachronistic legislative councils and their gerrymanders which, by some strange coincidence, are anti-Labor in every State with the exception of Tasmania. 
I am indebted to my colleague, the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan),  who has given me some up to date figures on the position in Western Australia. He points out that in the election for the Legislative Council held this year the Labor Party polled 50 per cent of the votes and gained 5 seats while the Liberal Party-Country Party coalition polled 35 per cent of the votes and gained 10 seats. We might refer to that,  Mr Speaker,  as Country Party democracy. 
Yes, it is guided democracy. If it happened in certain Other nations we would regard it as most reprehensible and we would be passing unanimous resolutions in this House about the situation. 
Our Bill has achieved a certain purpose. As we know, the Government has introduced legislation of its own, but it does not go as far as we would like it to go. I will deal with that legislation in due course. In the legislation introduced by the Labor Party today there is a statement of principle. We believe in getting as close as we can to the principle of one vote one value. This does not mean that we do not recognise the disabilities of members who represent country areas. I make the point that my father was born in Killarney. At that time it was in the electorate of Darling Downs. It is now in the electorate of Mcpherson. I have a great number of relatives who come from Queensland country areas and with whom I am in constant touch. As the member for the inner city electorate of Brisbane, I completely reject the idea that I would be unresponsive to the needs of country people. 
There are other ways to protect the interests of country people and the members who represent them than to gerrymander electorates. For example, we could give members representing these people better facilities for travelling around their electorates. We could give them access to charter flights. We recognise the disabilities under which members such as the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  and the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  operate. 
Most of the electorates that I have named, I might add, are represented by members of the Australian Labor Party. One of the curious anomalies in the claim by the Country Party that it caters for people who live in these far distant areas is that the majority of people who live in these areas chose to be represented by members of the Australian Labor Party. The real crunch of the Country Party's gerrymander, federally and in the States, comes in those areas where these conditions no longer apply. We see this position very much better if we consider the situation in Queensland at the moment where members of the Liberal Party, to their great credit, have crossed the floor of the Queensland Legislative Assembly to vote with the Australian Labor Party to secure a democratic redistribution in that State. 
In addition to charter flights, these members could be provided with superior facilities in their electorates. I have mentioned the honourable member for the Northern Territory. He represents an electorate which has centres of population at either end of it but has fairly sparse population in the areas between those centres of population. Why should the honourable member for the Northern Territory not have an office in Darwin and an office in Alice Springs? Why should he not have better facilities to enable him to be a more effective representative of the people who, at this point in time, have chosen him  as  their representative? 
There are many more ways to protect the interests of country people than to add an infinite number of acres or square miles to country electorates. The purpose of existing electoral legislation in Australia is to preserve Liberal Party-Country Party rule despite the wishes of the people, lt has been suggested that the Australian Labor Party would reduce the voice of country voters to a whisper. Let us look at the way in which a redistribution is carried out. I am indebted to my colleague aid neighbour in this House, the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti).  He has pointed out to me that, despite the fact that he represents a country electorate, he gained an additional 6,000 electors ii. the last redistribution. This increased the number of electors in Macquarie to in excess of 60,000. 
The honourable member's electorate has now increased in size to 60,000 electors whereas the average size of a Country Party electorate is 45,000 electors. Could it be that, notwithstanding the principles that the Minister for the Interior espoused in the Parliament, there is a different set of principles for country elec torates represented by Labor members than there is for country electorates represented by Country Party members. 
We are told about the contribution made by rural workers. A point of view that was put to us in the past was that, because of the great contribution made by rural workers to the export earnings of this country and because of what they did for all Australians, they were entitled to a weighted electoral representation in this Parliament and in the State parliaments. The fact of the matter is that if we cared to apply the contemporary economic situation we could well argue that because the people who work in our cities and secondary industries are obliged to subsidise and to carry rural industries, at this point in time such representation for country areas should be reduced. I do not subscribe to that argument; the Labor Party does not subscribe to it. We want a democratic distribution of electors so that the people elect as the government the Party to which they give the majority of their votes. They have done this many times in the past but that Party has not achieved office. 
Let us look at some of the things that have happened in the electoral sphere. I wish to deal not only with Federal matters but also with some contemporary matters in Queensland. I do believe that what we do here sets an example to the States. The figures that 1 will quote relate to the 1963 Federal elections. The Australian Labor Party polled 45.47 per cent of all votes cast and gained 50 seats. It took 49,783 votes to elect a Labor member. The Liberal Party polled 37.09 per cent of all votes cast and gained 52 seats. It took 39,054 votes to elect a Liberal member. The Country Party gained 8.9 per cent of the votes. At that time it represented 20 seals. It took 24,474 votes to elect a Country Party member. To elect a Country Party member to this Parliament required fewer than half the votes needed to elect a Labor Party member. I would like to translate this situation into Queensland, and I feel obliged to mention the things that have happened in Queensland because of the contribution made by my colleague, the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  on the adjournment debate last night and also some comments made by the right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann).  A similar position applied there. I will go back to  1963  to give some relevance to the political scene. 
In Queensland in the election of that year the Labor Party polled  337,928  votes and gained  26  seats. It took  12,997  votes to elect a Labor member. The Liberal Party polled  183,185  votes and gained  20  seats. It took  9,159  votes to elect a Liberal member. The Country Party, which is the majority party in the coalition in Queensland, polled  156,621  votes and gained  26  seats, the same number as the Labor Party. It took  6,023  votes to elect a Country Party member of the Parliament. If this accords with the definition of democracy put forward by the Minister on behalf of his Government it is a little different from the kind of democracy espoused by the honourable member for Grayndler when he was quoting the words of Abraham Lincoln. Abraham Lincoln has gone down in history and is and will be well remembered when various Ministers of the Interior - and I do not speak unkindly of our recently appointed Minister for the Interior - may not be remembered quite so well. 
The point at issue is that we want a more democratic society and a more democratic system of voting. We have asked for one vote one value or as close as we can get to that. The Labor Party has said that it realises the disabilities of members who represent country areas and would make special provision for them so that they might have a better opportunity to maintain contact with their electorates. I think there is common ground on both sides of the House on this question; 1 think the Parliament should give consideration to doing something to overcome the problems of members who represent these substantial outback areas. The Labor Party has never repudiated this idea. Why should it? The Labor Party represents the electorates of Kalgoorlie, Grey for most of the time, Kennedy, Darling and several others. The Labor Party has represented more than its share of these country electorates. The second proposition in this legislation is the question of a draw for position- 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  The point I was making is that most of the time this electorate is represented by a Labor member. The second point is that of a draw for position on the ballot paper. Why should a person have some electoral advantage because his name happens to begin with A, B or C? My colleague, the honourable member for Grayndler, whose name begins with D, and I, with a name beginning with C, can obviously be shown to be acting with high principle in this matter because we probably stand to lose as much as anybody in the House would lose under the system we suggest. But we all know that in recent times certain political parties, notably the so-called Democratic Labor Party, have chosen candidates with names which would put them ahead of a Labor candidate on the ballot paper in order that voters' preferences may have been directed towards Government candidates. What we have suggested is just simple democracy. 
The third proposition in our Bill is, of course, first past the post voting. I know that every government in office seeks to continue a system whereby its rule may be perpetuated and Labor governments have been no different from this Government in that regard. Naturally, all of us feel that our own political party has a unique contribution to make towards the welfare of the people of our country. But this Government has thrived on a system of preference voting over a number of years. What do we see as the follow-on from this system of Government? We inherited what was basically a two-party system, a system based on the Westminister or British form of government. Now we are seeing a gradual proliferation of minority groups. This Government was re-elected with the assistance of Democratic Labor Party preferences. It also gets preferences from other splinter groups. We have numerous small parties coming in now. This trend was particularly evident at the last election. People say that this is because a great number of electors are disillusioned with all the major parties but they do not realise that some of these problems are created by the system of government. Surely people are entitled to representation by the parties for which they vote, and that is the purpose behind this Bill. 
Again I would like to go back to Queensland, if I may, to give some examples of electoral gerrymandering. The point was made by the right honourable member for Fisher last night that. Labor governments had previously gerrymandered the electoral boundaries. I do not dispute that. The Labor Party has laid before the people of Queensland a clear undertaking that this will not happen again. 1 suppose that will get some hollow laughs from Government supporters, but let us look at what has happened in Queensland in recent times. I propose to go back to 1932 and give the figures. I propose to deal with the percentage of votes recorded for the governing Parties. In 1932 Labor went into office under Forgan Smith and polled 49.89 per cent of the votes. In 1935 Labor polled 53.43 per cent of the votes, in 1938 it polled 47.17 per cent, in 1941 it polled 51.41 per cent, in 1944 it polled 44.67 per cent and in 1947, the low point for Labor in Queensland, the Labor Party polled 43.58 per cent of the votes whereas the Liberal and Country Parties polled 45.22 per cent of the votes. At that time the Labor Party should have gone out of office under a fair electoral system. In 1950 Labor polled 46.87 per cent of the votes, in 1953 it polled 53.21 per cent and in 1956 it polled 51.22 per cent of the votes. That is the dreadful record of Labor Party Government in Queensland as far as gerrymanders are concerned. 
Let us look at the change which has taken place since the present Government came into office. In 1957 the Country Party-Liberal Party Coalition was elected with 43.22 per cent of the votes. In 1960 it was re-elected with 43.52 per cent of the votes under electoral gerrymanders that still stand. In 1963 they polled 44.06 per cent of the votes and in 1966 they got 44.4 per cent of the votes. I do not have the percentage for 1969, but it was marginally lower. The fact of the matter is that if we take the test of saying that a Government can reasonably, taking into account minority groups, expect to claim a mandate from the people when it has 45 per cent of the votes, over this whole period of Labor Party government in Queensland, with 2 exceptions only, the Labor Party met that standard, but on no occasion in the last 40 years of government in Queensland has the Country Party-Liberal Party Coalition Government met that standard. This is what the Bill is about. We want to wipe out the Federal electoral gerrymander. It is the purpose of my colleagues and some of the Liberal Party members in Queensland to wipe out the electoral gerrymanders in that State. We have put forward what we stand for. It is what we will give effect to in the legislature when we are elected to government and we are quite proud to make a clear and unambiguous statement to the people of Australia of the principles that underlie this Bill. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What schools in each Stale and the Northern Territory have Army cadet units and how many cadets are currently in each unit. 
How many permanent officers and other ranks are engaged in cadet training. 
How many teachers and others assist permanent servicemen with cadet training. 
What is the total cost to the Army of maintaining, equipping, training, accommodating and generally serving cadet corps. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice: 
Is it a fact that his Department is now constructing telephone lines on private property at public expense up to a distance of 15 miles from the nearest telephone exchange. 
If so, will his Department maintain these lines in the future. 
Will his Department now take over the maintenance of telephone lines previously erected on private property at private expense. 
What is the estimated expenditure for the construction and maintenance of these telephone lines in respect of each of the States for each of the years 1970-71 and 1971-72. 
I will not detain the House for very long, but I should like to support the report before the House. One of the things that I have found most interesting in the Northern Territory on the occasions I have been there and have talked to the Aboriginal people has been the interest which Aboriginal people living in isolated places show in allowing their children to take advantage of the education which they are now receiving. I had a talk with a gentleman at Yirrkala. I do not think he would mind me mentioning his name. It is Wanjuk. He is a well-known artist. He said he was very proud of the fact that his son had absorbed the old ways, the tribal traditions, and that he was now at the Kormilda College absorbing the new ways. 
The point I want to make is that I know the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  said that the Yirara College will take young people from the age of 12 years. I know that in many ways the educational assistance which is given to Aboriginals in the Northern Territory is superior to that given by the States or by the Commonwealth in the States. I hope this means that the secondary grant scheme for Aboriginals will be extended to children as young as 12 years who attend these colleges in Alice Springs and Darwin. I hope this means that the Commonwealth similary will extend the scheme to Aboriginal children right throughout Australia when they go from primary school to secondary school. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Speaker, I do not intend to detain the House for long. I am told by my colleagues that that would be a very wise move. 1 regret very much that the House is going to adjourn tonight without some discussion on the very important report of the committee which investigated the problem of the crown of thorns starfish. 1 realise that some honourable members may think that this is a fairly minor matter. It is a fact, however, that a previously rare starfish has now reached plague proportions on reefs, not only in the Great Barrier Reef area but throughout the Indo-Pacific region. A great deal of scientific investigation has been carried out by a large number of scientists and almost all of them agree that the crown of thorns starfish has now developed to plague proportions. The sad part about this is that some of these reports are now 4 or 5 years old and all of them recommended intensive programmes of scientific research and the removal of starfish by various methods. 
I would be the first to agree that there is no agreement on the best method of removing the starfish but surely this emphasises all the more the need for research. The United States Senate has voted $4.5m to be spent in American territories in the Pacific. The report of the crown of thorns starfish committee recommends the expenditure of $90,000 to $120,000 on this work- $90,000 in the first year and an increase of $20,000 in each of the succeeding years. The big problem, of course, is that reefs are being destroyed and no-one knows whether it will be 20 or 40 years before they develop their previous ecological balance. Professor Hill, in evidence before the committee, suggested that it might be 2 human generations before the reefs were restored. 
The only point I wish to make in expressing my regret that we have not been able to discuss this matter in the House is to request that consideration be given to bringing the matter before the House again in the Budget session in order that proper consideration might be given to the report. In my view the report represents a whitewash on the part of the Queensland State Government and shows its lack of concern for conservation. I regret very much the way in which the report reflects on the professional integrity of  Dr Endean  and other scientists associated with the Great Barrier Reef committee. 
asked the Minister  for  Defence, upon notice: 
What has been the cost to date of the proposed acquisition of Fill aircraft including the cost of 
the aircraft 
armament 
the purchase of spare parts and other equipment 
construction of hangars 
workshops and 
investigation and tests. 
What cost has been incurred for the storage of the aircraft in the United States of America? 
What other costs have yet to be met? 
What loss has been incurred in spare parts which are now obsolete for the Australian aircraft or which have deteriorated and are no longer capable of use? 
What has been the cost of training programmes so far carried out and what further training costs will be incurred when the aircraft are brought into service with the Royal Australian Air Force? 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
Payments for the project to 30th April 1971, are $US228.359m for items (a), (b), (c) and (f) and $A3.802m for items (d) and (e). 
None. The question of storage charges is still to be negotiated between the United States and the Australian Governments. 
Final costing for some elements of the project is still Subject to discussion and agreement between the United States and Australian Governments. 
No losses have been incurred at this stage. Shelf life items are still within serviceable time period. Other items which have become outmoded due to modifications are being reworked to update them for use. 
Expenditure on training programmes to date totals $US2.567m. Some additional training costs  will be involved, but the extent of these costs will be subject to negotiation with the United States authorities. 
The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  damned his case by saying in his closing words that this motion was not a matter of national importance. The Labor Party has brought this matter of urgency before the Parliament as early as possible because, notwithstanding the fact that we all know that our Government has communicated with the governments of Pakistan and India, the Labor Party felt that members on both sides of this House would seek to identify themselves with the views already expressed by the Government in the way in which on previous occasions they have sought to identify themselves with the Government in some international crisis. I am sure that honourable members who were here at the time when troops from the Soviet Union and other Warsaw Pact countries invaded Czechoslovakia will recall that on both sides of the House honourable members united to express the concern through this Parliament of all the people of Australia at what was happening in that part of the world at that time. We sought - unsuccessfully, unfortunately, when one recalls the speech just made by the honourable member for Kennedy - to convey to the governments of the Indian sub-continent through this Parliament the concern felt by all Australians at the present position between India and Pakistan, the present position in East Pakistan and West Bengal and the other adjoining States of India. 
May I draw the attention of the House to the exact terms of the matter of public importance spelled out by my colleague the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  It reads: 
The need for Australian initiatives to assist the cause of peace in the Indian sub-continent by - 
conveying to the Military Government of Pakistan the conviction that the overwhelming election of Mujibur Rahman should be allowed to follow its normal constitutional path to the formation of a government;- 
Does the honourable member for Kennedy disagree with that? - 
conveying to the Military Government ot Pakistan that the execution of Mujibur after a secret trial will be regarded as judicial murder;- 
Does the honourable member for Kennedy disagree with that? - 
increasing aid to refugees; 
Does the honourable member for Kennedy disagree with that? - 
interceding with the Military Government of Pakistan to desist from military action in East Pakistan;- 
Does the honourable member for Kennedy disagree with that? - 
urging United Nations action to keep the peace and assist refugees. 
Can any honourable member disagree with that? I think that every phrase adopted by the honourable member for Fremantle is unexceptionable. Let us put the record straight. Like my colleagues the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  and the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr 
Gun) I had the opportunity to spend some time in West Bengal recently. Naturally as a member of the Joint Foreign Affairs Committee of this Parliament I was interested to see just what sort of a job Australia was doing there. I am not criticising the speed with which aid was given in West Bengal. Indeed every person to whom I spoke said that the Australian aid was very well programmed and that Australia asked what was needed and got it there. What we are concerned with, however, is that notwithstanding what has already been done and what the Government has announced today - the additional $500,000 worth of aid which will be given - the problem that yet remains to be solved is enormous. 
The honourable member for Kingston outlined the situation as he saw it in the refugee areas. What is the position? I went to 4 refugee camps near Kaliani north of Calcutta to look at the situation there. I think the Government of India has done a remarkable job with the assistance it has been given and with its own resources - principally wilh its own resources - in housing and feeding the people who are there as refugees from genocide in East Pakistan. But when one looks at these people and sees the adults who are at present dazed  - if  that  is  the right expression - by the atrocities and by the oppression which they saw  in  their own country before coming into India and when one looks  at  the food they are being given one realises that the present  'Situation in  these areas cannot last on  its  present basis. It is true to say that these people have roofs of a kind over their heads. It is true to say that they have sufficient food to sustain them for a short period of time but  it  is equally true that the small children who are there and are suffering from malnutrition, cholera, typhoid and other diseases are not being given that extra food and those extra vitamins or drugs which would enable them to return to full health. 
I agree with the honourable member for Kingston. The message that has been conveyed to us on behalf of Oxfam today by the Save the Children Fund organisation states that 100,000 children will die. I attended a Save the Children Fund hospital at Kaliani About 40 children are being brought into the hospital each day right on the very edge of death. While we were at the hospital several children passed away. They are not in any position to bring in all the sick children. They bring children in for treatment only when they are on the very edge of death. So there is the humanitarian consideration of the fact that hundreds of thousands of small children and other people in this area will die of starvation and famine. 
The flood of people across the border still continues at the rate of 40.000 to. 50,000 a day. As this flood continues an increasing number of these people are suffering the effects of famine and disease in East Pakistan. This creates a tremendous problem for India because these refugees are entering an area of India which is in many ways an industrial area. There has been great unemployment. None of these refugees from Pakistan can be employed while there are Indians out of work. So we have this situation of the young men going off to join the independence army of Bangla Desh. As I said, other adults are stunned by the things that have happened to them. This situation will not go on for ever. Already there are indications of communal strife. We hear a lot about Communism from honourable members on the other side of the House. In Calcutta literally thousands of Maoists - people belonging to the Peking oriented Communist Party in India - were marching in a trade union demonstration. These people are subverting the refugees. They are sending out teams to say to the refugees that their present situation is in no small measure brough about by the fact that the Government of India has not recognised Bangla Desh. In this great nation of India where a large number of communities live together in what one might describe at times as an uneasy peace, where we have known great disasters and genocide as between Moslem and Hindu at the time of partition and on other occasions since, we have this explosive situation that could blow the Indian sub-continent apart, with all that that means for this part of the world. 
It is our purpose not to make carping criticism of what Australia has done so far but to register in this Parliament the fact that the need for assistance at a much higher level is great and will remain for a long period of time. If all of these pressures and persuasions which the world is endeavouring to exert on the Government of Pakistan are unsuccessful the situation could well be that India will be left with the 7 million refugees, which it has at present, or perhaps 10 million or 11 million refugees. It may be left in the long term with the responsibility of feeding and clothing these people and endeavouring to provide them with employment in the most politically and industrially sensitive part of the nation of India. That is the problem. 
I would like to say that the work done by the officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs in India - I will not mention names - is very impressive. These people are on the job. They know what the problems are. I can only hope that the Department and the Minister will continue to be advised of the situation by the information that these officers send. Surely if this Parliament can do anything honourable members on both sides can register the abhorrence which all Australians feel at the genocide being carried out in East Pakistan and urge this Government to respond to the wishes of all Australians and to ensure that the aid that Australia is giving and the influence that Australia can exert is sustained into the future. If this Government fails to do this what happens in the Indian sub-continent may be very great compared with the terrors that we have been told for many years have happened in Vietnam and elsewhere. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the total number of prescriptions dispensed by approved pharmacists under the National Health Act during the year 1969-70? 
What number of approved pharmacies dispensed below (a) 3,000 and (b) 6,000 items per year, and what was the respective total number of prescriptions dispensed by each of these groups? 
What was the prescription volume level of remaining approved pharmacies at levels of 1,000 items per year and what total number of items was dispensed at each level? 
What was the number of approved friendly societies at 30th June 1970, and what number of prescriptions were dispensed by them in the preceding year? 
What was the prescription volume level of approved friendly societies at intervals of 1,000 items per year, and what total number of items was dispensed at each level? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What has been the cost of Australia's involvement in Vietnam. 
What amount has been spent by the (a) Navy (b) Army and (c) Air Force in each of their respective areas of responsibility. 
What amount has been spent on civil aid. 
What has been the cost of the National Service training scheme conducted to support the Australian involvement in Vietnam. 
How many Australian servicemen have been (a) killed and (b) wounded in the Vietnam theatre of war. 
How many ex-servicemen are receiving repatriation pensions and services as the result of service in the Vietnam theatre of war. 
The first thing I should like to say in speaking to the current Budget is that I had no intention of being discourteous to the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett"/ when I was somewhat amused at this suggestion of a common electoral roll for Queensland. I support the idea of a common electoral roll in Queensland as a means of cutting out unnecessary government expenditure. It is a good idea and I commend it to the House. I hope that the honourable member will commend the proposal to his Country Party colleagues in Queensland. I know he is sincere on this question but I remind him that there is one transparently obvious reason why the Country Party Government of Queensland would not accept a common roll which, of course, would be of benefit both to Queensland and Commonwealth expenditure, and that is that the Country Party gerrymander in Queensland could not be operated within the framework of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. These are the cold, hard facts of life and it is no use the honourable member coming into this House and advocating in a responsible way - I do not doubt his sincerity - a proposition which he would not have a ghost of a chance of selling to his Country Party colleagues in Queensland who, irrespective of the cost to the people of that State, are dedicated to maintaining the gerrymander that has existed in Queensland for a long time. 
As all honourable members have said, the Budget is full of good things and bad things. We all tend to direct our attention to those areas where we believe some improvements should be made. Perhaps we do not always direct our attention as much as we should to the fact that money has to be paid for those desirable features of the Budget. Nevertheless it is human to look at the adverse features of a Budget and to look at the things we might wish to have done. So, for a few minutes, I should like to speak about the matters that have been raised by honourable members during this afternoon's debate. Firstly, I refer to the attack on inflation, which the Government claims is one of the features of the Budget. Members of the Opposition realise that an inflationary situation exists in the Australian economy and that it has all the potential of being a serious situation. On the other hand many people think that this Budget will prove to be too deflationary and that in the Jong term it may well mean that Australia will have a higher level of unemployment than any of us would desire. I think that members from both sides are dedicated to the idea of full employment. That, at least, is what members say. Certainly the Labor Party is dedicated to full employment. One of the problems which are raised by this Budget and which can be answered only in the future, is just how deflationary the Budget may be. 
Many attacks have been made on the trade union movement. Probably its most spectacular member currently is the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. We have seen the Government parties building up towards a fight with the trade union movement in this country by making suggestions that if inflation has occurred, it has been caused by the pressures on employers by the trade union movement seeking higher wages, over award payments and the like. 
Also in this debate this afternoon we have heard attacks made on the Public Service Board. Honourable members heard the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  state that the Public Service Board should be told to restrict increases in the salaries of members of the Public Service. The honourable member for Maranoa stated that a careful watch should be maintained on the proportion of people employed in the Commonwealth Public Service. I do not think that he was suggesting that anybody should be sacked. What he was suggesting was that fewer people should be employed. Later in his speech he suggested that more public servants should be employed in country  towns  because he supports the decentralisation policy of the Labor Party which will ensure that many more people are employed in country towns. None of these problems is simple to solve. None of these problems will be solved if the Government is to spend its energies attacking the work of the great trade union movement of this country, because the trade union movement is responding to the demands of its members. 
The basic problem in the country is the inflationary situation. Working people throughout the country are saying that increases in their pay packets do not mean very much to them because of increased prices. If the Government could bring inflation under control by the introduction of more responsible financial policies, by more planning in its policies and by more rational development of all parts of Australia, it would find that the demands on the pay packet would not be as great. It is in the interests of all Australians that Australia should continue to have a vigorous trade union movement fighting for the welfare not only of its members, but also of retired people, primary producers and others throughout the country. 
I would like to support some of the good features contained in the Budget. They include the increased expenditure in social welfare, education and, of course, the increase in assistance to primary industry. The honourable member for Maranoa advocated that the level of assistance to the wool industry by way of a subsidy should be at 40c per Jb compared with the 36c per lb granted in the Budget. He also mentioned the problems of people in country areas with poor television reception and the fact that the present Government gives no consideration to the problems of country people. Of course, honourable members of the Labor Party agree that this is true. It is passing strange to hear honourable members on the Government side raising these difficulties in the Parliament when we have had a LiberalCountry Party Government in office since 1949. Surely the present honourable members on the Government side, and their predecessors, should have been able to ensure that the Government did more for primary producers and others throughout the community than it has. 
There are a number of matters that  I  would like to raise. One can only touch on matters fairly briefly in a speech of 20 minutes. One such matter is social services. This is an example of the generosity that the Prime Minister said would be shown in the Budget where an increase was made of $1.25 in the full rate single pension. We have previously seen on many occasions an increase of SI. Last year, the pension was initially increased by 50c. This year the Prime Minister said that people in receipt of social services would be treated with greater generosity. His definition of greater generosity is an increase of 25c above what has come to be almost the ordinarily accepted increase. The full single rate pension is now $17.25. 
I would like to place on the record what would have been the position if the Labor Party had won the 1969 election. At that time the Labor Party pledged that it would introduce legislation early in 1970 to increase the pension by $1 from $15 to $16. It pledged that it would continue to make these increases in succeeding budgets and that it would legislate to maintain that value in the pension. This means that the pension would have been $16 in February 1970. $17 in August 1970, and $17.50 in February 1971. Because of our pledge to keep value in the pension, we would certainly have done no less than that done by the Government which increased pensions by 50c. At the present time, of course, the pension paid if a Labor Party were in government would be $18.50. If a Labor government had been elected in 1969 a person in receipt of a full rate pension would now be receiving $18.50 a week compared with $17.25 paid by the Government. Under the policy pledge given at that time by the Labor Party, such people would be absolutely certain of pension increases to raise the level of pensions to one-quarter of the mean average weekly earnings - about $21 at the present time. 
Another of the good features of the Budget which I would like to mention is one on which I am sure all honourable members have made representations. I refer to the restoration of the notional salary adjustment to the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. All honourable members will recall that in 1961 the Government accepted this policy and applied it in the 1961 Budget, the 1963 Budget and the 1967 Budget. A period of 4 years has elapsed without the Government carrying out its pledge. It has delayed in giving justice to retired Commonwealth public servants. We all should pay a tribute to the Superannuated Commonwealth Officers Association which has worked very hard to keep this problem before us. While retired Commonwealth public servants may take some satisfaction that after 4 years the Government has again redeemed its pledge, they should not be without the knowledge that for 4 years this pledge has not been honoured in previous budgets. 
I would like to bring before the House a number of areas of need that the Budget has not dealt with. One of them is that again this year no provision is made for any new developments at the Eagle Farm Airport in Brisbane. An interesting position is found in the civil works programme contained in the Budget. The actual amount voted this year for proposed new works under the heading of 'Civil Aviation' has been decreased, by $16,342,000. Last year an allocation of $23,762,000 was provided for new works, and this year the allocation is $7,420,000. So we find a reduction of $16,342,000 in the allocation for new works. This year, expenditure at Brisbane airport will be $565,000, with a carry-over of previous expenditure, meaning that the money available for work at Eagle Farm Airport is $772,685. For the same period, the money available for work at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport is $13,464,682, and for Melbourne Airport the figure is $14,694,643. Out of the civil works programme expenditure of $39,605,465 for the Department of Civil Aviation, only $772,685 is available for expenditure at Eagle Farm Airport. 1 do nol want to be unfair about this, because I think that the present Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has made a lot of progress in co-ordinating with the State authorities and the Brisbane City Council to plan the proper development of Eagle Farm Airport. But the people of Brisbane and the people of Queensland have waited for a long time for something to be done at Eagle Farm Airport. We have a tourist industry which is very important to Australia. We have the poorest accommodation for international passengers and domestic passengers of any the major capital city airports in any State of the Commonwealth. How long are we to wait? We have waited while 
Tullamarine has been built at enormous expense. I have never made any criticism of expenditure at Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport, because Sydney Airport is an international airport in the real sense of the world. But the people of Queensland were entitled to feel that at a time when the Government has decided to decrease the amount of money available for new works for civil aviation by more than $1.6m, some of this $16m could have been appropriated to make a start on new work at Eagle Farm Airport. I commend this proposal to the Government, and certainly to the Minister for Civil Aviation. It is time that the planning which is now being carried out showed some signs of coming to fruition and that the people of Brisbane were given the first rate terminal accommodation that is available in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart. 
I was pleased that my colleague, the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  who has a great interest in the Aboriginal people of his electorate, as he has for all the people of his electorate, spoke about the problems of people living in country areas and raised the poor record of the Government in its expenditure on Aboriginal advancement. It is now 4 years since the referendum which gave the Commonwealth power, together with the States, to pass laws concerning Aboriginals was carried. In that time we have had every year an increase in the amount of Commonwealth expenditure and I suppose one could take some satisfaction from the fact that it is slowly going up. But the point I want to make is that the increase in expenditure is much too slow. If one looks at the appropriation for this year one finds that S23m has been provided in the Estimates, an increase of S5m over the previous year. That figure covers all headings. When we take into account the increases in salaries and wages that other honourable members have referred to the real level of expenditure on Aboriginal welfare has not gone up by a great amount. 
The Budget announced no new programmes in Aboriginal welfare. We were hoping, for example, that there would be some assistance for Aboriginal pre-school education, some programme to assist, by way of capital grants, the establishment of kindergartens and pre-schools and the sub siding of the salaries of the teachers as well as the other services which would be provided, such as meals. This would enable Aboriginal children, many of whom are culturally deprived and living in fringe dwelling areas and the like, by the time they got to primary school to have a reasonable chance of pacing it with children from the broader Australian community. The Commonwealth's expenditure, of course, includes the amount of money voted to the States. Last year the grants made under the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Act amounted to $7m which included $4.8m for housing. This year - 1971-72 - the proposed amount payable to the States under that legislation is $9.2m including $S.2m for housing. This is an increase of $2.2m including an increase of $400,000 in the amount provided for housing. Let us look at what $400,000 means in housing. It means 40 more homes and this is a mere drop in the bucket. 
Last year - and I still have on the notice paper some questions addressed to the then Minister who was responsible for Aboriginal affairs - I pointed out in a debate that at least $llm per annum was needed for Aboriginal housing to keep up with the growth of the Aboriginal population. The amount provided meant that no progress was being made in a very substantial area of need for Aboriginal housing. I was told at the lime by the Minister that the expenditure, taking all States into account, was more than this but it is curiously significant that although I disputed the figures at that time the question I asked still remains on the notice paper unanswered. 
When one looks at what is being done, that is, the provision of 40 more homes for Aboriginals throughout the Commonwealth, one can realise that in other areas we provide fairly generously. I am not criticising this because it is necessary, but in the current year there is an amount of $60m provided for capital expenditure on war service homes. I put it to the Government that if we are going to make an impact on Aboriginal housing something of the order of half that programme should be devoted to Aboriginal housing. This is not just a problem of housing Aboriginals who are living in country areas and fringe dwelling environments because, representing as I do an inner city electorate, I am concerned about the circumstances in which Aboriginals are living within the Federal Division of Brisbane. Many of them come down from the country and crowd into houses in inner city suburbs because of the high rents they have to pay and by virtue of the fact that they are on low incomes. Most of them only have labouring jobs or are in transitory employment. There are other problems that accrue to Aboriginals living in an urban situation. Sometimes we have 2 or 3 families crowded into a house with all the problems that that brings in terms of social behaviour, standards of health and the like. There is a need, again in the field of Aboriginal welfare, for a programme of rehousing Aboriginals living in the cities. This should not be done only because of the fact that they are the Aboriginal people but it should also be done for the betterment of people in the broader Australian community because there are problems of social tensions and racism developing in inner city areas of all our great cities, including Brisbane, which result from bad housing for Aboriginal people and the complaints that we are getting now in increasing numbers from their neighbours. So 1 regret that the Budget has not done more in the field of Aboriginal advancement, which is a matter of great concern to all Australians. 
I have recently, on a study grant, been able to travel overseas for 9 weeks - not all of that covered by the study grant, I might add - and I am very grateful to the Australian Institute of International Affairs for making such a grant to me as it did also to the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown).  One of the questions that was continually posed to me wherever I went overseas concerned what we were doing for our Aboriginals. Naturally when one goes overseas one does not say to people: 'We are doing a pretty shoddy job in that area.' Instead one says: You know, the amount of Commonwealth expenditure is increasing. We have had this responsibility only for the last 4 years.' But while none of us wants to go overseas and belittle Australia, the hard cold facts of the matter are that the Commonwealth has had this responsibility now for 4 years and it has not faced up to it in the way the 
Australian nation expects and, indeed, I think as most honourable members would expect. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  last night when he spoke to the Budget and I again make the point that I think that the Government has hit inflation too hard and should look very carefully at the problems which may be caused if this Budget is to be deflationary and we do get a serious unemployment problem developing. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
How .many Aboriginal and Island children in the (a) States, (b) Northern Territory, and (c) Australian Capital Territory received a pre-school education during the year 1969. 
How many scholarships were provided for the training of pre-school teachers to serve in Aboriginal communities. 
The Bill before the House is like any piece of legislation that affects national service, which is an emotional issue in a community because there are wide differences of opinion in our society as to what level of threat Australia faces at the moment or will face in the near future and how Australia ought to respond. It is of the nature of things in a political forum like this chamber that honourable members will make party political points - real or imagined - that suit their own advantage. But I think that thoughtful members of the Parliament will agree when they sit back that every member in this place wants to see Australia well protected by well equipped and properly trained armed forces. None of us wants to see young Australians thrown into battle without proper training or equipment whenever a threat might occur at some time in the future. 
The debate on this Bill really revolves around how these competent well trained and well equipped armed forces are to be developed and whether they should be brought together, partly by people who volunteer and partly by a system of national service. Only time will prove - and, of course, only circumstances will prove - whether it is possible to raise an armed force consisting entirely of volunteers. I think one ought to say in fairness to all our compatriots in Australia that whenever a threat has been obvious and whenever a war has been on our threshhold and Australia seemed to be threatened, young Australians and indeed perhaps even middle aged or old Australians have rallied to the colours. Australians rallied in the Boer War and the First World War. 1 make the point here that I did not see this but I have heard about it. However, I certainly saw how Australians rallied to the colours during the Second World War. I believe that young Australians are not lacking in patriotism or loyalty to their country. I believe that they would rally again should any threat to this Australian nation of ours develop in the future. But happily we have no threat at this time. All of us have fresh in our memories statements by Ministers and former members of the Government, not least of them the previous Prime Minister and the recent Minister for Defence who stated in several speeches which were circulated to honourable members that Australia faced no challenge in the next 10 years, that happily we were in a situation where it seemed that we would not be threatened in what one might almost say the foreseeable future. 
This is no reason for anyone to be complacent because it is of the nature of things that it is a fundamental responsibility of every government to ensure the survival of the nation, the society to which we belong. So whatever the threat or lack of threat may be, it is a responsibility of any government to ensure that the armed forces of this country are maintained at such a level that they could respond to any challenge which may arise and would be capable of being expanded to meet any challenge which may develop. This is what we are debating tonight. In the circumstances of a withdrawal from Vietnam - that means a great reduction in the Australian commitment overseas - and in the realisation that the people in time of peace will be more reluctant to accept sacrifices in their own personal lives, in their association with other members of the family, and in their business interests and the like, than they would be in time of war, the Government has decided to reduce the term of national service from 2 years to IS months and is proposing to make certain other adjustments to the National Service Act. 
I would like to talk for a few moments about some of the things that have been said about this legislation by the two previous speakers from the Government parties. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  suggested that the Labor Party would sell Australia out. He referred to Pearl Harbour and Singapore and he gove us a count down of the years before World War II. He quoted to us speeches made by various Labor members of the Parliament at that time who suggested that wc in Australia ought not to be carried away by emotionalism and devote too much of our resources to defence. In reply to this, I would like to say that at any time that this country has been involved in a major war - there have been only two of them; World War I and World War II - the people of Australia have in their wisdom called a Labor government to the Treasury bench because they have realised that a Labor government, better than any other government, will ensure that the resources of the country are mobilised behind a war effort. It is true that if honourable members go through the Hansard record they can single out speeches made by Labor members before World War II who suggested that it was undesirable to devote too much of the resources of this country to a defence effort. But those members were typical of their day, and incidentally, they were in opposition. The Government which governed Australia from 1932 until 1941 was a government of the same complexion as the present Goverment. 
While one may point to speeches made by Labor members, they are in most ways typical. In some ways they are not as extreme in view as were speeches made by honourable members on the Government side. We all remember the late  Mr Hughes,  a former Prime Minister and member for Bendigo and later North Sydney. He was one of the few people on the Government side of the Parliament who saw the threat posed by the Second World War. While some things have been said about our very highly esteemed former leader,  Mr John  Curtin, it is true to say, if one analyses the Hansard record, that for several years before the war,  Mr Curtin  called for a massive investment of money in the Air Force and the Navy in order that Australia should be protected against the threat that he saw as Leader of the Opposition and as leader of the Australian Labor Party at that time. I think it is completely dishonest to suggest that the Labor Party would sell Australia out because the record is entirely to the contrary. 
If one looks at the book that recently was published to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the Royal Australian Air Force one will see that it is divided into 3 sections. The middle section relates the tremendous build-up of the Royal Australian Air Force in the situation of the Second World War. I am not taking any credit away from the Menzies Government of that time because with the Empire Air Training Scheme the Menzies Government laid the basis on which later development occurred. But it is equally true to say that great development took place under a Labor government. I do not think we should try to make party political capital out of some of these things because my Party, the Australian Labor Party, has nothing to be ashamed of in the attention that it has devoted to the defence of Australia at any time that this country has been threatened. My friend, the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  said that the Labor Party hoped for the best. He said that members of this Party had said that Australia's frontiers lay at its natural boundaries, that the stationing of defence forces overseas was no longer acceptable and that we would not accept the advice of the chiefs of staff or the senior people in our defence forces. 
He said that we took a position which was anti-Australian and he suggested that many of the young people who object to national service today have as their purpose the overthrowing of parliamentary democracy. He rather suggested that we had some sympathy or association with these young people. Of course, it is realistic to say that Australia's frontiers are its natural boundaries. But no nation is an island and this country has commitments. It has international commitments to the United Nations. It has close associations with the Commonwealth of Nations and certain treaties with the United Stales of America and with New Zealand all of which are accepted and acceded to by the Labor Party in its policy. Whilst our attitude to some of these situations may be different from that of the Government parties, no member of this House can say that the Labor Party has ever deserted its responsibilities in regard to any of our treaty commitments. It is not true to say that the Labor Party hopes for the best and is prepared to gamble on Australia's future. The Labor Party believes that by giving members of our armed forces decent pay and conditions and a challenging role, many more young people will join the armed forces than at present. One of the criticisms that we make of the present Government is that in its commitment to Vietnam - quite frankly, we have never agreed with the commitment to Vietnam in the way in which the Government members have spelt it out - no young person in this country has ever been given the opportunity to volunteer to serve in Vietnam. In the early 1950s young men were invited to enlist to serve in Korea. They served in an Australian component of a United Nations and British Commonwealth force in Korea. 
Yes, they were all volunteers. This Party supported that commitment. But no young man was even given the opportunity to volunteer to serve in Vietnam. He could join the Army but he could well end up peeling spuds in a camp anywhere in Australia. There was no way in which he could specifically enlist to serve in a task force in Vietnam. That just was not on. 
The Government introduced national service. Of course, it introduced national service against a background of confrontation with Indonesia in Malaysia. No member of this House would deny . that this was a situation of great concern to Australia. We all know that we were fortunate in that changes in the administration in Indonesia took place late in 1965. We have all been heartened by the improved economic position in Indonesia and the continued good relations with Australia. I think that every member of this House is heartened by the fact that over recent years good relations with Indonesia have been maintained. This probably has been the high water mark of Australian diplomacy. But given that national service was introduced in those circumstances and that it was continued in the situation of a Government commitment to the war in Vietnam, the question now arises whether national service is the most effective way to maintain Australia's armed forces in the future. 
The hard, cold facts of life are that this Government is not prepared to trust the young people of Australia. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  has said that Australia faces no threat in the next 10 years. Is not this the time that the Government, given the fact that it has appointed 2 committees to look at Service pay and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund, should try out its own policies and see whether it can develop responsible policies which would encourage decent young Australians, physically fit young Australians, to join the armed forces and serve their country in this way? But the Government does not trust young Australians. It does not believe that it can persuasively present a case or that it can provide the incentives to encourage young people to join the Army. So it continues this system of national service. One then comes to the position: Is this the most effective way to use our manpower? I think that anybody who looks at the situation will say that it is not. The current Labor Party policy as found at page 33 of "The Australian Labor Party Platform, Constitution and Rules' states: 
All forces should be made up of volunteers and conscription as such shall be abolished. In the national interest however, the right must be retained to raise a national service force should the security of Australia be threatened. 
In other words the Labor Party does not reject national service if ' the security of 
Australia is threatened. But it does not accept national service as being the ordinary state of affairs. The Labor Party believes that service in the armed forces should be so well rewarded in terms of pay,, allowances, training opportunities and the like that young people might select serving in the armed forces as being an appropriate way to make a career and an appropriate way to pay their service to the Australian nation. 
Yes. I am happy to see that the Government has responded to an Opposition initiative to look at some of these matters of pay and defence forces retirement benefits. It is not only a matter of pay, of course. It is also a matter of housing allowances for the dislocation of a family because people are travelling from place to place or may be sent interstate or overseas to South East Asia. But whatever the difficulties, the Labor Party believes they should be faced. It is a coward's way out to attempt to gain by a system of national service the armed forces which this country needs. Let us . look at the national service system. With the exception of a number of rare people who comply with the requirements of the present Act and the alarmingly high proportion of young Australians who are not physically fit - again that is an indictment of programmes carried out by the present Government - the national service scheme under a system of ballot calls up people across the board. We all know the situation. Every honourable member in this place knows of young people who have qualified in medicine, engineering, veterinary science, pure science or some other discipline and who are then required to carry out national service when they could probably make a much more realistic and rewarding contribution to Australian society in some field of private employment. 
National service is the easy way out. It is the way in which the numbers can be made up without paying decent salaries and wages to people and without giving them decent conditions. In time of war any government can successfully get away with this sort of programme. The future will show whether this Government can get away with it in time of peace. There is no argument from the Labor Party side of the House about the defence of Australia. Every man in this House wants to see Australia well defended. He wants to see Australia's armed forces properly trained and equipped. The Labor Party wishes to see Australia's armed forces at what might be termed the take-off point; that is, sustained at a level which would enable our forces to be expanded quickly if there were any threat to Australia in the future. Again I make the point that the previous Minister for Defence and other honourable members on the Government side have said that they can see no threat to Australia in the next 10 years. So we are not lacking in patriotism. We are not lacking in any desire to see that Australia's forces are properly maintained. What we do say is that there are great iniquities and great injustices in the system of national service in which young people are obliged to serve whether or not they agree that this is an efficient way to use Australia's manpower. 
If this nation were threatened national service might be necessary. But it should not be the easy way out. It should be something that is turned to only in the last resort. In other words the Labor Party in no way apologises for its desire to see Australia's fighting forces strengthened, manned and well equipped. The Labor Party believes that this situation should be brought about by paying decent wages and by giving decent conditions. Consequently the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  who leads in this area of responsibility will be moving amendments in this House to bring about such changes in the National Service Act as we seek. Whatever decisions might be made in this Parliament in the next few days, the fact still remains that we think that whatever national service might do this Government has not yet solved the problem of the Citizen Military Forces which has been destroyed by the national service system. The CMF is an important part of Labor Party policy but it has lost a great deal of its prestige because under legislation introduced by this Government it has become the refuge of people who wish to avoid national service responsibility. The Labor Party not only stands for improving the situation of those people in the regular forces but also, by abandoning national service and by giving these incentives, we would restore the CMF to the prestige position it occupied in the past. It is not sufficient to have well paid and well equipped regular forces. It is also necessary to have citizen forces to back up the regular Army. The citizen forces should be capable of being expanded in the event of any threat in the future. Although the situation might be that there does not seem to be any obvious threat in the immediate future it is the responsibility of every government to make sure that Australia is ready to face such a threat should it occur. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many people are employed by the Australian High Commission in the United Kingdom, 
How many of these people are locally employed. 
How are the responsibilities of the staff divided among Australian Government departments and authorities. 
I think that it should be emphasised quite clearly that the purpose of the Opposition in bringing this matter of public importance before the Parliament on this occasion is to gain from the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  those assurances that he has given and to emphasise to him and to the Government that, in the present circumstances which exist in South Vietnam, the Opposition has a responsibility to ensure by bringing this matter before the Parliament that the Australian Task Force is withdrawn with minimum loss of life. A great deal of shot and shell are always expended when issues such as this come before the Parliament. Members on the Government side take the opportunity of suggesting that the Australian Labor Party was always opposed to the involvement of Australian forces in Vietnam. Of course, in a military sense this is perfectly true. It is suggested that we are supporting Communism and that we are indifferent to the fact that there could be a Communist takeover in South Vietnam. This is not the motive in bringing this matter before the Parliament today. The motive is solely to express concern which is felt not only by the Opposition but throughout the Australian community at what happened several days ago in Phuoc Tuy province when a number of Australians were killed and a larger number wounded. The 'Australian' of 23rd September 1971 carried the statement that 5 Australian soldiers had been killed and 24 had been wounded - this was later corrected to 26 wounded - and that it was the worst single engagement in 5 years. It stated: 
At least 19 of the casualties were national servicemen, including 4 of the dead. 
The article went on to state that as far as losses were concerned this incident was exceeded only by the 18 soldiers killed in the so-called battle of Long Thanh in August 1966. Why we are concerned is that, with the facts as we know them and which are not under dispute, these young Australians have been killed and wounded against the background of the statement made by the Prime Minister and statements made by other members of the Government when the withdrawal of the Australian task force was announced. For example, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said in the House on 1 8th August:   . . the main Australian effort has been in the general area surrounding Saigon and in particular in Phuoc Tuy Province. There, the security situation has markedly improved. The enemy has largely lost the initiative. The Vietnamese territorial forces have been steadily developing their capacity and in the last year have gradually expanded their own areas of operations. The enemy is still there of course, and some setbacks may yet occur. But in our view, shared by the Government of the Republic, the existing relative strengths are such that the territorial forces should be able to handle the likely contingencies. 
After reviewing other matters, the Prime Minister said: 
The forces will begin withdrawing in the next few months, giving the Vietnamese time to adjust their force dispositions. HMAS 'Brisbane, due out of service in Vietnamese waters early in September, will not be replaced. Most of the combat elements will be home in Australia by. Christmas 1971. Shipment to Australia of stores and equipment will be completed in the early months of 1972. 
In reply to a question yesterday, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  said: 
As I have pointed out already, about half the province is under the operations control of the regional forces and popular forces. Also there are the South Vietnamese self defence forces in that area. The other half of the province will be handed over in the fairly near future. 
This incident which has happened raises the question of whether the security of Phuoc Tuy province is as soundly based as both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence have led us to believe. I support the views expressed by the Minister for the Army when he said that he would not give a detailed statement of all those matters associated with the withdrawal of the forces. It would be unreasonable for him to do so. In my view, it was unreasonable for some honourable members to have sought such information. The problem still remains that the Government has announced the withdrawal and the details are as well known as they may be. 
I was a little surprised to hear some of the statements made in the debate this afternoon. It has been suggested thai the Minister would not state how many Vietcong corridors there were across the minefield. If the security situation in the province was as satisfactory as we have been led to believe, there would not be any Vietcong corridors across the minefield. We have been told that the Minister will not disclose information as to when the South Vietnamese forces will take over those areas which the Australian Task Force is vacating. Am I to understand that at present, because of the withdrawal of portion of the Australian Task Force, a vacuum exists in this area; that there is an area unprotected at this stage by the South Vietnamese forces? Is it then not true that the South Vietnamese forces have developed that capacity which the Prime Minister in his statement on 18th August suggested they have now developed to look after the security of their own country and, more particularly, that province in which so much Australian effort has been expended? These are questions that will only be answered in time because I think it is fair to say that we are all much too close to the war in Vietnam to be able to judge what will happen in the future. 
It does not always follow that in a war one achieves one's objectives. Sometimes there is a waste of life and no good purpose is served. There is still argument as to whether the campaign on the Gallipoli Peninsula in 1915 was a glorious failure or a great achievement. Be that as it may, what has happened in Vietnam will be judged only in the future. For example, I am sure that many people are disappointed by the fact, that there is only one presidential candidate at the elections to be held in South Vietnam. Is this an indication of the democracy for which so many young people from the United States of America, Australia, South Korea and other allied nations have expended their lives and made great sacrifices? These are questions that will be answered only in the long term. What we are concerned about is the short term - the period from now until December. The Opposition has brought this matter before the Parliament to indicate that it will be subjecting, as indeed the whole Australian community is subject ing, all of these aspects of the withdrawal to very close scrutiny. We do not want to know all of the details but what we want is an assurance, which has been given by the Minister for the Army, that everything will be done to protect the security of the Australian Task Force. The Government has now stated that it will withdraw all of the Australian Task Force. As I said before, the other side of the story will be made known only in the long term when it can be established to what extent the South Vietnamese Government is able to maintain security in the area. 
We are concerned today with the security of the Australian Task Force and we want to make quite sure - as much as anyone in the Parliament can be sure - that the Task Force is withdrawn as one cohesive unit and that the withdrawal is properly protected. The Minister has indicated that this is so. It now remains to be seen whether the statements made by the Minister on this matter are strictly correct or whether they are as accurate as other statements that have been made by a series of Ministers about the situation in Vietnam over a period of 6 or 7 years, most of which in the long term have proved not to be correct. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing. I draw his attention to a report on the States Grant (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969 and point out that of 1,433 units built in the nation only 18 were constructed in Queensland. Is the Minister concerned at the poor record of Queensland in the construction of self-contained units for pensioners? Is the Minister aware that Queensland has one in 6 of all age pensioners but is constructing units for only one in 80? Can he inform the House what action he is talcing to rectify this shocking position? 
This evening we are devoting our attention to the estimates for the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts and we all recognise that some very thoughtful speeches have been made on both sides of the House. Although it is a new Department which when it was set up came under some criticism as being a miscellaneous sort of department, there is no doubt that the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  has under his control some very important facets of the national life and some very important responsibilities that the Commonwealth has to meet. I propose to devote my short time tonight to discussing some of the Commonwealth's responsibilities in the field of Aboriginal affairs. The Commonwealth's responsibility for Aboriginals who live outside the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory was greatly extended by the referendum of  1967.  We on this side of the House have felt for some considerable time that the Commonwealth has not taken the initiative which the people of Australia by an overwhelming majority indicated to this Parliament in 1967 that the Commonwealth should take. So we feel that the time has come, now that 4 years have elapsed since the Office of Aboriginal Affairs was set up, to review all the activities of the Office with a view to greatly expanding those activities so that the Commonwealth might properly take the initiative which it should take. 
This is not to say that co-operation with the States and other instrumentalities is to be downgraded. I believe that the problem of bringing the Aboriginal people of this country - and in 'Aboriginal people* I include Torres Strait Islanders - up to that standard of living which we would hope all Australians would enjoy is one which will demand the attention not only of the Commonwealth but also of the State governments, local authorities and voluntary organisations and, indeed, command the consideration of all Australians. Let us look at what the Commonwealth has done since it became involved in this area. First of all an Office of Aboriginal Affairs was set up and a decision was made that very largely the Commonwealth would work through the State governments. I suppose there was a lot of common sense in this because the States were well established in the field of Aboriginal affairs and a substantial number of Aboriginals and Islanders already lived on State government - maintained settlements and missions. But while the amount of assistance to the States has gone up from year to year - it was S3. 65m in 1968-69 and has increased to $9.2m this year - we have to recognise that the amount appropriated in this Budget is a very small amount in view of the needs that still exist. 
Let us look at some of the matters to which reference has been made. I know that we have legislation before the House dealing with State grants and I do not intend to deal with it at any length now. My friend and colleague, the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  said tonight that he waited for over a year for an answer to a question. I would like to point out that on 30th October last year after a debate on the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill 1970 I placed a question on the notice paper seeking information about the money provided in the 
Budgets of the Commonwealth, the States and the Territories for the housing of Aboriginals and Islanders. It is almost a year since that question was placed on the notice paper and it has not yet been answered. Does this mean that the Commonwealth has not yet received information which it has sought from the States or does it mean that the Commonwealth can make an appropriation in the present Budget for such housing without any idea of just what the needs in that field are? 
I know that this Government has said that it gives a very high priority to Aboriginal housing. We do not discount that. However, when we consider the amount of about $5m provided for Aboriginal housing and compare it with the $60m that we are making available for war service homes we realise that the Government has dual standards. One point that needs to be made in relation to Aboriginal housing is that almost every house provided for an Aborigine is provided through a Government instrumentality. I agree that some Aborigines and islanders may be allocated Housing Commission homes, but by and large it is Government money which builds houses for Aborigines, whereas among what might be called the white Australian community people have a choice between being assisted by savings banks, home building societies of various kinds and, of course, housing commissions also. 
Just as an indication of the fact that the Government has not expanded its role to meet the decision arrived at by the 1967 referendum, I remind honourable members of just what it is that we are doing at present. We have Aborigines living in a number of environments on government settlements and missions. These are major areas of State responsibility in which the Commonwealth is assisting. There is no doubt that many improvements have taken place in this field. Then we have Aborigines who work in the pastoral industry and who are fringe dwellers either around cattle stations or around the country towns. Very few programmes have yet been evolved to meet the needs of these people. When we consider the expenditure of Commonwealth money and where it is being spent we find that it is spent mainly on Aborigines who live in towns, and that the largest amounts of money spent have been on Aborigines other than those living in a fringe dwelling environment. 
Then there are the Aborigines whom we might describe as urban Aborigines. They are the ones living in the cities and large country towns. Many of the organisations working for Aborigines in the large country towns and in the cities have received grants from the Commonwealth Government. This assistance is useful because a number of organisations are working in various social and sporting fields, undertaking welfare work and the like. But the impact which needs to be made in an area which has not yet been touched on is in relation to the housing of urban Aborigines. I noted in the documents distributed by the Minister recently that one house was built in the City of Brisbane, for example, for the housing of urban Aborigines. It is true to say that when we look about our cities and see Aborigines and their housing our attention tends to be drawn to those places where the Aborigines are perhaps living in overcrowded conditions or in substandard housing. This is because Aborigines living in these circumstances are obviously easier to see. I am not detracting in any way from the fact that many Aborigines in our cities and towns are living in very satisfactory circumstances, but the problem still remains and it is a problem that we have yet to face up to.  1  suggest to the Minister that what we should be doing is setting up a Commonwealth Aboriginal housing corporation of the magnitude of the War Service Homes Division of the Department of Housing. Such a corporation would make a real impact on the need for Aboriginal housing in the years immediately ahead. This is an area in which it should not be difficult to make an assessment of what the needs are, not only to provide new houses for the expanding population but also to ensure that those Aborigines who are shifting into our cities and towns are satisfactorily housed. If we are to solve this problem in any reasonable time it will involve a programme similar in size to that undertaken by the War Service Homes Division. 
I suggest to the Minister that when soldiers come back from serving overseas in an army, any Government, no matter what its political complexion might be, would be anxious to ensure that sufficient money was appropriated in the Budget to ensure that every applicant for a war service home received one within a fairly short space of time. The idea of saying to returned servicemen and women 'We will give you a house in  10, 15  or  20  years time' would be quite unthinkable. I wish the same sense of urgency applied to Aboriginal housing in respect of which we should set target dates. We should set a target of providing every Aboriginal family in this nation with decent housing within a perid of  10  or  15  years. It is an area which is obviously outside the capacity of the States and is clearly a responsibility of the Commonwealth. We on this side of the House will not be satisfied until we see the Commonwealth take up this responsibility. 
Progress reported. 
Thursday, 14 October 1971 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Does every eligible child throughout the nation receive free milk on every school day? Is it the practice where it is not possible to supply milk to supply fruit juice instead? Have any comprehensive surveys of child nutrition been carried out to evaluate the existing scheme or establish whether any new programmes should be developed with Commonwealth assistance? How important is the free milk scheme today? 
The time for debating in the Committee tonight is the short period of 10 minutes for each member. It therefore follows that none of us can devote as much time to any of these great and complex problems of international affairs as we might wish to. I would like to say something about some of the speeches that have been made by members on the Government side earlier tonight. In the first place I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  on his very fine speech supporting the upgrading of Australian representation in Africa. Zambia and Uganda were the 2 places he mentioned in particular. I  also  had the opportunity of visiting East Africa recently, but I visited neither Zambia nor Uganda. I agree that Australia must play a more important role in East Africa. The sorts of arguments put to us by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  tonight are symptomatic of the priorities whereby Australia  works  out how much interest it should take in various parts of the world. Again we heard of the communist threat from the north, pro-Peking radicals and such emotive phrases. 
Much has been made of the assistance being given by the People's Republic of China to the building of the Tanzam railway. It is the biggest Chinese aid programme anywhere, and I think it is the only aid programme of any significance in Africa. It is winning the Chinese a lot of credit in that part of the world not, I think, because it has been overly political but because the people taking part in the programme have been well trained. Many of them were trained to speak Swahili before going to Africa. I should think that that would be no mean task in China. We discussed this with people in Kenya and asked them how they felt about the Chinese. They said: 'They will pick you up and give you a lift in their trucks and that is something no white man would ever do'. It is obvious that in some ways the Chinese have an advantage over Western countries when they mount an aid programme in Africa. 
I would like to pay a tribute to the very fine job being done by members of the Department of Foreign Affairs throughout the parts of the world I was recently able to visit, particularly Africa. The numbers of our representatives there are fairly small and the work load is very great. Perhaps this matter would more appropriately bc raised when discussing the estimates of the Department of Trade and Industry, but I would like to say that our trade representative in the office of the High Commissioner at Nairobi handles trade matters for the whole of Africa, apart from white South Africa and Rhodesia. I was amazed that one man was expected to cope with all those problems and also to develop Australian trade for the whole of Africa. 
I support the idea that we should pay more attention to East Africa. We are concerned about problems in the Indian Ocean. It is obviously in Australia's interest to keep the area under close scrutiny. We could do this best by developing good relations with the countries of black Africa. 1 listened with interest to what the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  said about South Africa. One can sympathise with problems there, although I must say that I do not agree with the policies of the Government of South Africa. 1 could not detect the change that the honourable member saw there. 
There are some heartening signs but all the evidence is that any change taking place will be very slow. I am afraid that there just will not be enough time. I agree with the role we are playing in our relations wilh South Africa although there is no doubt that the Springbok tour of this country earlier this year did a great deal of harm to our reputation overseas, and a great deal of harm to South Africa's reputation overseas. I was particularly interested in Great Britain to read the news reports from Australia that were featured. Notwithstanding the satisfaction that any nation has at seeing its sportsmen or sportswomen doing well overseas, the price that South Africa and Australia paid for the Springbok tour was much greater than most of us would care to admit. 
I am not altogether sure about the Trotsky Ballet. I was not dealing with cultural matters, with which the honourable member is familiar, but with foreign affairs. I would like to comment on the contribution made by the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  to this debate. In his thoughtful speech he spoke about millions of people enslaved behind the Iron Curtain and of double morality. One of the big problems we have to contend with is our future relations with the People's Republic of China. The double morality has not been entirely on the other side in international affairs because we have taken the view until quite recently that Taiwan represented China. Our view is now changed. Our Government  is prepared to accept that the Government in Peking should be recognised as the de facto Government of Mainland China. We on this side of the House welcome this change in the Government's attitude because this has been our policy since 1954. But the Government is now saddled with having previously recognised the Nationalist Chinese administration in Taiwan as being the representative of China. One should give credit to  Sir Robert  Menzies, a previous Prime Minister, because in all the time that he used the threat from the north and about China sweeping down between the Indian and Pacific Oceans when he was mustering votes for the ballot boxes, he never raised our representation in Taiwan to the level of Ambassador. 
We are now in the position where, if we are to develop relations with the People's Republic of China and have an Australian Ambassador in Peking in the future, and a Chinese Ambassador in Canberra, this 
Government will have to withdraw from its position of recognising Taiwan and accrediting an Ambassador to the Nationalist Chinese in Taiwan. This will not be a very palatable move for the Government to make. I fully agree with the idea that we should support the United States in its guarantee to the people of Taiwan that they will not be invaded from the mainland. I know that the United States has said it is prepared to support the Nationalist Government in Taiwan by force of arms, which is something we have not said that we are prepared to do, but we sympathise with their dilemma. I hope that the Department is not just following along on the coat tails of the United States to see what will happen when  President  Nixon goes to Peking and what he may be able to negotiate because all the evidence is that China will not agree to bettering its relations with Australia diplomatically while Australia continues to recognise Taiwan. 
I get no satisfaction out of rubbishing anybody and I am certainly not rubbishing the people of Taiwan. Within certain limits they have done a remarkable job economically but theirs is not the Government of China. Our Government is in a position where in the near future it will have to retreat from the unreal position into which it has taken this country. We have, of course, a great number of other problems, such as the deterioration in the relationship between Australia and the United States in recent times. It was not so very long ago that the Australian government was able to say to the world and to say very convincingly to the Australian electors that it had an intimate relationship with the United States and that it knew beforehand what the United States intended to do. It is obvious that this is no longer the case. The trust which existed has broken down. We know of the recent embarrassment of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  announced his leadership of an Australian Labor Party delegation to China. The Prime Minister came out and attacked this move in the old cold war terms we hear from people like the honourable member for Kennedy. On the very next day the visit of  President  Nixon to the People's Republic of China was announced. I am sorry to say that I cannot see any evidence in the newspaper reports that the recent visit of the Prime Minister to the United States has done anything to raise the standard of relations between Australia and the United States, but I hope the Government gives this matter a high priority because good relations with the United States are still important to this country and will remain so in the future. It is obvious that our relations with the United States have deteriorated greatly in recent times. 
Progress reported. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
What sums were provided in the Budgets of the (a) Commonwealth, (b) States, (c) Northern Territory and (d) Australian Capital Territory for the construction of houses for Aborigines and Islanders in the years 1969-70, 1970-71. 
How many houses were constructed (a) on Government settlements and missions, (b) to house Aborigines previously living in a fringe dwelling environment and (c) to house or rehouse Aborigines living in cities, towns or villages. 
How many Aborigines and Islanders live in substandard dwellings. 
How many houses would need to be built in the current financial year to keep pace with Aboriginal population growth. 
How many houses were actually built for Aborigines in the year 1969-70. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Redder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of 'he Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a member of the Australian Labor Party 1 also indicate my enthusiastic support for the amendment moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  which calls on the Commonwealth Government to assume a much greater role in solving the problems of the Aboriginal people of Australia and of the Torres Strait Islanders. During this debate I have been happy to hear honourable members from different States expressing local problems. Members from Tasmania, New South Wales and Western Australia have spoken, but many of the things that I will say must be seen against the background of the Queensland situation. We all realise that circumstances are different throughout the Commonwealth and that programmes which might work effectively in one area may be complete failures in another area. So much depends on the background of the Aborigines. One can compare people who have lived in completely dependent circumstances all of their lives and who find it difficult to make decisions with people like the Aborigines in Yirrkala where, under the guidance of the Methodist Mission for something of the order of a generation without any attempt to break down the Aboriginal culture, they enjoy the best of both worlds, as it were. These Aborigines are able to stand up for themselves and to express opinions. One gains from them a great respect for the Aboriginal people as they were before what one of my colleagues referred to as the white invasion. 
The legislation before us shows an increasing Commonwealth expenditure. Of course, this is a good thing. I suppose that any Minister who can say that his legislation shows an increase in expenditure of 31. per cent over the previous year is entitled to say 'That is a pretty handsome increase'. However, when we were debating other legislation earlier today, one of my South Australian colleagues said that the South Australian Government this year had increased its expenditure on education by 30 per cent, and that was a handsome amount. I put it to the House that the rules that apply to other areas do not apply to the field of Aboriginal advancement because this is a new field of Commonwealth involvement and it is a field in which the Commonwealth Government will have to provide vastly increased sums if the problems are to be solved. I have the utmost praise for the work that is being done by the Commonwealth Office of Aboriginal Affairs. The officers of that Office look at the problems fairly and I am sure that the recommendations that they make to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  are well balanced and represent a much broader approach to the problems than is the case with many of the State administrations because the State administrations are tied down with their own administrative problems in settlements and reserves. Whatever else we may have done, and however much the Minister or anyone else here may congratulate themselves on the increased expenditure, the hard, cold facts of life are that whatever we are doing is not keeping pace with the rising expectations of Australia's Aboriginal population. 
The 1967 referendum raised the hopes of Aborigines that they might have a new future in Australia - a future of equality, noi in the never never but in their own lifetimes. One of the reasons why we are running into problems today, why there is so much frustration and why the newspapers are focusing some deal of attention on a small, hut probably newsworthy. Black Power movement is that we are not keeping pace with Aboriginal expectations. I agree with the decision of the Commonwealth Government to work through the State administrations. The problems are so widespread that fairly flexible programmes must be devised to work through State government departments, local government bodies and councils in order that all of the resources might be brought to bear on the problems of the advancement of the Abor.iginal people. We are confronted wilh problems of geographic isolation 
In Queensland the failure to meet rising Aboriginal expectations must be seen against the depressed state of the rural economy and of the pastoral industry. Many of the young Aboriginal men and women - particularly the young men who normally would have been employed in the pastoral industry - are now coming to the large cities of Queensland and the capital city of Brisbane seeking work. This has added a new dimension to the problem. There are  3  environments, and I propose to deal briefly with each. The situation in none of them is satisfactory. The first concerns settlements and communities. Of course, this has been the long term responsibility of State Governments. Queensland has new legislation which was brought in late one week and rushed through the Parliament early the following week against the background of a demonstration by a number of unemployed Aborigines who were led by officers of the Aborigines and Islanders Tribal Council. It is a sad thing that this legislation was not brought down in circumstances which would have enabled the whole range of people interested in Aboriginal welfare - no less the Aborigines themselves - to express their views on the legislation in order that whatever emerged from the Queensland Parliament might be the best possible legislation. But that did not happen. The legislation is an improvement in many ways, but in other ways it does not go far enough. The problems cannot be solved merely by changes in legislation. There have been improvements in the physical environment on the settlements. For example, houses are much better than they used to be. Other facilities such as hospitals, some of them wilh Commonwealth assistance, are much better than they were. The teaching staffs in the schools are better than they were because they are officers of the Queensland Department of Education. However, there is still an almost complete lack of proper pre-school education. In one or two places there are pre-schools or kindergartens but, to the best of my knowledge, in only one of these schools - ! think that is at Yarrabah - is there  a  school teacher who meets the requirements of proper training as a pre-school teacher. Many of the others have done a kindercraft course and the organisations that they run would be more properly described as child minding centres than as pre-schools. 
There is a deteriorating relationship between the staff and the Aborigines. This has been mainly brought about, as I said earlier, by the rising expectations of the Aborigines and our failure to meet them. There is an insufficient involvement of Aborigines in staff and technical positions. There has been no solution to the problem of land rights. Aborigines know that por tions of their reserves can be cut off at the whim of a Cabinet or by the GovernorinCouncil if some of that land happens to contain bauxite, valuable timber or some other mineral resource which could be exploited. There is a complete lack of social workers in the settlements to train housewives in budgeting and the like so that those who choose to do so might make an orderly transition to the broader Australian community. The policy of the Queensland Government is one of assimilation but, until a short tune ago. these people lived in a position of ration handouts and complete dependency. It is . just too difficult a task for young people or middle aged people who have spent almost all their lives in a position of dependency to be thrown from their society into the highly competitive community that we have been used to all our lives or, al least, certainly since we left school, and expected to make a success of it in 1 or 2 years. We need more trained people. It might be argued that these are State matters. My thesis is that these problems will be solved only with Commonwealth money assisting the States in what they should be doing. 
There is a problem in getting an effective voice for the Aborigines. The Queensland legislation has set up a system of Aboriginal councils but of course, on these reserves, most of the permanent residents are employees of the Department of Abor.iginal and Island Affairs. For example, in Woorabinda, which our Committee visited, the  president  of the council was the hygiene man and the secretary was the fellow who drove the school bus. People are appointed to the council by the local superintendent. So although on the face of it the Aboriginal council may appear to be an independent agent of the Aborigines, in effect it is actually too closely dependent upon the Department. There is no easy solution to that problem because in some of these areas the more enterprising young Aborigines have gone into the outside community looking for work in the pastoral industry and the like and the people who are left behind often do not have a great deal of leadership capacity. 
There has been a failure to train staff in all the positions they occupy on these reserves, whether they be policemen, justices of the peace or the lass working in the maternal and child welfare centre. Only one in dozens of these people is properly trained. This is the legacy of past dependency and handouts. I am sure that the shortage of social workers could be made up by the training of Aboriginal liaison officers. They would not need to be trained in all the ramifications of social work that are met in the broad outside community. We really need on the settlements people who are independent of the administration. I am not saying thai there are not some fine people in the administration on these settlements in Queensland: there certainly are. However, there is a problem of alienation between the Aborigines and the administration. What is needed is an advisory level in these places which is not connected with the administration. 
In my office in Brisbane I receive a lot of work from places like Cherbourg. Aborigines come down and ask me to explain some social service problem, some technicality about an unemployment benefit or a tuberculosis allowance that should have been explained to them on the settlement. I would probably receive only a handful of the many problems that exist in a place like that and which are never picked up because of the alienation between the Aborigines and the administration. J mentioned that there were many capable people working in this field, some of them working for the Queensland Government. The sad part about this is that they are all prisoners of the system. They ate all living in the past and this is just pari of the hard, cold facts of life. 
I now wish to refer to problems with regard to Aboriginal fringe dwellers. These are the people for whom we have not yet developed satisfactory programmes. We have programmes that meet the people on the settlements; we have programmes such as secondary school scholarships for Aborigines whose families are assimilated in our community. However, we have no effective programmes in the broad to cater for the Aborigines who live in a fringe dwelling environment. There is a problem of alienation and a need for decent housing. Some of these problems are being met by Commonwealth assistance. I am happy to see that Queensland is to get one-third of the money and I am happy to see where the houses are being built. I think that the Queensland Department is running this scheme in a very responsible and effective manner, but it is still only a drop in the bucket. The houses are still going to the larger country centres of population. I am pleased to see that in this year's programme, for the first time they are reaching into some of the smaller rural centres. 
There also exists the problem of children who start school late and leave early. Because of malnutrition they are so small that, although they may be 7 or 8 years of age, they look as though they are only 5 years and because they are Aboriginal children, nobody rounds them up to chase them along to school. In pastoral areas of Queensland, many children including white children leave school before the minimum permissible leaving age because they intend to work on their family's pastoral properties. However, if the Aboriginal children leave school at 12 years of age. or whatever age they may leave, no-one chases them up m the same way that they would be if they were white children. I am associated in a modest way with a hardworking team of people in the Save the Children Fund in Queensland who have established a kindergarten at Eidsvold. This is a very interesting experiment and, at the end of its first year, we can say that it has certainly done a lot to draw that Aboriginal community together. I think that we need to build on to projects of this kind with some form of community centre, around which a range of programmes could be established 
Finally  -  I apologise to the Minister for having taken longer than I promised - I want to deal with the urban Aboriginal because I am the member for an inner city electorate. Let us examine the way money provided bv the Commonwealth has been spent on Aboriginal housing in Queensland. One house was bought in Brisbane in rather special circumstances. Great numbers of Aboriginal families are going into the inner parts of Brisbane, crowding into houses and paying high rents because the Queensland Government has abolished any kind of rent control. They are living in very undesirable circumstances and are creating social tensions between themselves and their neighbours. We need an effective urban housing programme. The problem of housing for Aborigines in the cities cannot be left to the housing commissions alone because very often Aborigines, because they lack training or because they may occupy labouring positions, may go from job to job and they do not have the basic requirements which would give them a priority in the system of the housing- commissions. There is need for a special housing programme for urban Aborigines. This will be created by Government money alone. 
I recently received an answer from the Minister to the oldest question on the notice paper. When this debate took place a little over a year ago, I asked the then Minister, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  how much money was being spent on Aboriginal housing. I said that $llm was the take-off point. He assured me, I am sure quite honestly, in his speech that at least that amount would be spent. I tried to go through the spider web of figures in the State and Federal reports. Now that the question has been answered, we find that this year half that amount of money actually was spent by the Commonwealth and by the States on Aboriginal housing. The Government is spending $60m a year on war service homes and it will need to spend this sort of money on Aboriginal housing. No less than $30m a year over a period of time must be spent to overtake the problem. We want to solve the housing problem in a fairly short space of time. We have a problem in accommodating young people who come from the country seeking work, until such time as they qualify for unemployment benefits or obtain employment. I am happy that the Minister and his officers are looking very closely at this problem which has arisen in Brisbane, and I give them full credit for doing so. 
We have a problem with Aboriginal organisations. The Commonwealth has handed out a certain amount of money to Aboriginal organisations. Not all of the money has been spent as v/ell as it might have been, and I have no criticism for that. I think that this is an inevitable part of the acceptance of responsibility by Aborigines. I think that perhaps some of the training that we are providing is at too high a level. In these various places we need to provide fundamental training to the officers of Aboriginal organisations in (how to run meetings, how a secretary should keep a set of minute books and how a treasurer should keep a set of account books. Tn other words, I think that probably we have got to evolve a system which starts off at a lower level than we have previously envisaged. It does not follow that people can do some of these things without training. I think that we have to look at this matter. 
Finally, a great deal of attention has been focussed by the Press on the Black Power movement in Australia. There is a very small Black Power movement, lt is led mainly by frustrated people. In Brisbane most of its membership would comprise very young Aboriginal boys who have come from the country and who have nol yet been placed in employment. 
I believe it is inevitable that we will have more trouble and more violence in this regard. But I believe that it will be counter-productive, because there is a lot of goodwill around the place. Many people criticise these things, and I am one of those people, along with others, who does criticise this trend. I was happy to hear the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  refer to  Mrs Walker.  She has been a prominent Aboriginal leader and in recent days she has gone on record as expressing her opposition to the Black Power movement's use of violence. But I think that we have to realise that it is not enough for us to criticise these things. We have to meet these situations. We have to realise that notwithstanding the increased activity in Aboriginal affairs in which the Commonwealth is engaged, we are not yet doing enough. Until we extend our programmes to meet the needs, then unfortunately these counter-productive things will happen. 
In the absence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs I address my question to the Prime Minister. What action has the Australian Government taken to bring about a cease fire between India and Pakistan? Is the Government preparing for the substantial increase in assistance to refugees which will be necessary as a result of the war? What action has been taken to protect the lives and interests of Australian citizens who may be endangered by the war? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal educa.ion opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Austalia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians 
Your petitioners request that your honorable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present agc limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will bc given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  presentthe following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants: 
That the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
That the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the Parliament take note of the concensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
That honourable members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down, by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duly bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Can the Prime Minister explain why it took until 18th November to approve increased salaries for locally engaged staff of the Australian High Commission in the United Kingdom when the comparable increases for the  British  Civil Service took effect from 1st January 1971? Does the Prime Minister realise' the dissatisfaction that this long delay has caused among the staff of the High Commission? Will he undertake to review the  procedures  in order that delays of this length may not occur in the future? 
This has been an interesting debate because of the varying points of view which have been advanced by Government supporters. I should like to reply not only to the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  who has just resumed his seat but also to other honourable members. The Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  suggested that the Australian Labor Party's policy was one of separate development. He conveyed the impression, by inference, that this was something akin to apartheid policies which are held in repugnance in most countries. The Labor Party believes that the Aboriginal people of Australia should have a freedom of choice as to whether they' merge into our society. We recognise that many Aborigines who live on settlements and reserves in country areas will choose to come to the city where greater opportunities exist just as many people who live in rural areas choose to come to the city, but we believe that the decision to assimilate with the broad Australian community should be made by free choice. We believe also that the standard of living in Aboriginal and island communities should be raised so that people transfer at the same level. They should not be coming in o our society because they are driven out by cultural deprivation, by lack of employment, by living on hand-outs and by all those factors that apply today. Assimilation is a 2-way traffic. The Aborigines and Islanders should have the choice of coming into our society or remaining in their own communities with all the opportunities that our education gives them and with all the background that their own culture may give them as well. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  made a statement and the Minister for the Environment has made the statement we are now debating outlining what the Government proposes to do. However, before dealing with that statement I should like to refer to a number of dead cats tha* have been thrown into this debate. The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  said that the Opposition and other people were making this matter a political football. It is the function of the Opposition in this Parliament to deal with matters of national importance. When there are areas of need - be they unemployment or deficiencies in education, health or anything else - it is the function of the Opposition to make these needs political issues because that is the way in which needs are met and injustices rectified. We have no apology for bringing these matters before the Parliament. Indeed, members of the Opposition have been bringing these matters before the Parliament for a long time, longer than most members on the Government side. 1 would of course, except the honourable member for McKellar  (Mr Wentworth who is the only man on the Government side who has been interested in Aboriginal affairs for a long time. Not too many of his colleagues join him even now. 
We have heard about Communism and political advantage for the Australian Labor Party, but I make this point: Many of my colleagues from Western Australia and from the north of Australia realise that some of the things that we advocate for Aboriginal advancement do not win them votes. They operate in communities where there is much racism and I pay tribute to some of my colleagues from those areas for having taken up some of these issues knowing that this will lose them votes. The Minister for the Interior made the point that Aborigines - he mentioned the people of Yirrkala - were happy with the form of land tenure being offeredto them. 1 ask the Minister: What alternatives were they offered? Was it this form of tenure or nothing at all? If they are happy with this form of tenure we should know what the alternatives were. Were they offered freehold land, leasehold land or some form of trust? Or was it an all or nothing exercise? This question must be answered before we can accept the statement of the Minister for the Interior that Aborigines at Yirrkala are happy with this form of land tenure. 
The Minister made and emphasised the point -I praise him for doing so - that the Government has done much in the field of education. He said that it has developed special curricula and established special forms of schools to cater for special needs because of the specific background of the Aborigines. What we say is that we need to create special forms of land tenure to cater for the specific background of the Aboriginal people. In other words, what we are saying is that we propose to do in land tenure what he says his Government is doing in education. I do not deny the achievements of his Government in education but if he is saying that a white backlash will develop because of special programmes in land rights, then will it not at the same time develop a white backlash if there are special programmes in education? 
I would be quite happy to develop that point. The honourable member for Herbert asked whether there were land rights for Torres Strait Islanders. Of course, most Torres Strait Islanders live on their own islands and already have most of the land that they need. There are a few of them at Bamaga and there are numbers of Torres Strait Islanders who have gone to employment on railways and in other places. I will deal with that point in a moment when I turn to the general question. 
Just what does the Australian Labor Party propose compared with what is proposed by the Government? The Government has offered leases on Aboriginal reserves. There is a new mining code and it has offered to purchase land which might become available outside the reserves and it proposes to set up a fund to do this. However, the Labor Party policy is crystal clear. It states: 
All Aboriginal lands to be vested in a public trust or trusts composed of Aborigines or Islanders as appropriate. That exclusive corporate land rights be granted to Aboriginal communities which retain a strong tribal structure or demonstrate a potential for corporate action in regard to land at present reserved for the use of Aborigines, or where traditional occupancy according to tribal custom can be established from anthropological or other evidence. No Aboriginal lands shall be alienated except with the approval both of the trust and of Parliament. Aboriginal land rights shall carry with them full rights to minerals in those lands. The sacred sites of the Aborigines will be mapped and protected. 
An interesting statement of the Government's altitude to land rights was made in the last publication by the Government on Australian Aborigines, made under the authority of the then Minister for Territories, the hon C. E. Barnes, in July 1967. Under the heading 'Land and Institutions' it said: 
Until all Aborigines become independent members of the Australian community, land must be reserved for their use normally within their tribal territories. 
I think that is still the attitude of the Government. It sees Aboriginal land rights as being a transitional phase in the history of the Aboriginal people from which they eventually will emerge when they merge into the Australian community. 
Let us look at the needs of these people. Aborigines live on Aboriginal reserves for a number of reasons. In the case of people like the Aborigines at Yirrkala, who have already been mentioned, and in Arnhem Land, who have lived on their traditional and tribal lands, the policy of the Labor Party is to vest these lands in local trusts with the local people involved. This would not be done in such a way that they could sell out to overseas investors, as the honourable member for Herbert suggested. Presumably they could sell out to other Aborigines, but it would be a corporate trust We do not want them to be like the Red Indians in the United States who, when they received land rights, had a situation where generations of chiefs lived it up and their descendants have remained paupers to this day. 
 Be that as it may, these are people who live in their traditional circumstances. I should like to deal for a moment with how the Government has treated these people, and I refer to an answer I received to a question I had put on notice to the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  and which I received yesterday. In Arnhem Land there is an area of 37,167 square miles held in the Arnhem Land reserve and, of this area, 26,114 square miles has been allocated under prospecting authorities to various companies. In all fairness, I must say that 1,415 square miles of that land was allocated to Aborigines or Aboriginal organisations. In effect, two-thirds of this land is now covered by prospecting authorities. 
I know it is not, but if minerals are found in Arnhem Land, will they not be developed? We have had this problem in Queensland. When one gives an authority to a company to prospect, it follows that if that company finds mineral resources that are capable of being developed, the Government has, in effect, made a first commitment to the development of such resources. 
 I do not disagree with that. We have the position of the woodchip industries, which would completely desecrate the landscape and destroy the ecology. The developers would cut down every tree and change the whole structure of the environment. 
 I am pleased to accept the Minister's assurance and I trust that the future will prove him correct. In other circumstances in Australia - not in the Commonwealth territories - there are Aborigines who live on reserves for a different purpose. I would like to refer to a book by J. P. M. Long entitled 'Aboriginal 
Settlements' which, on page 96, table 21 gives details of Aborigines removed to settlements and missions in Queensland between 1911 and 1940. This table points out that there were 5,672 Aborigines removed and in a note at the bottom of the table it indicates that this figure does not convey the true number of people that were removed, because sometimes it represented the head of a family, when his family was removed with him. 
So, today, Aborigines in many cases occupy land which in earlier days was regarded as not capable of being developed for pastoral projects and the like. They are the least attractive areas in the Commonwealth - areas to which they could go as a refuge under the protectorate system operating in Queensland, Western Australia, South Australia and other places when nothing else existed. Having destroyed the Aboriginal population of 251,000 which existed at the time Captain Cook discovered the eastern seaboard of this country are we now in our generation, to take away from the Aborigines and Islanders What yet remains? The Labor Party's policy is to give them corporate land tenure; but this is not enough. We must cater for those Aborigines who live on the fringes of country towns. We need to develop schemes where these people can be compensated for loss of land rights and this probably means acquiring allotments and assisting Aborigines to obtain houses. This could perhaps be done by giving them allotments and providing them with a deposit under a scheme similar to the Housing Commission scheme which would make it economic for the Aborigines to be decently housed. Of course, for many tens of thousands of Aborigines in urban areas - the indications are that over 60 per cent of those Aborigines at least need rehousing because of low standard accommodation - we must develop schemes of compensation for loss of land rights. This is the proposal of the Labor Party; it is a reasonable proposal. It has been suggested that this policy has been developed by Reds - by Communists and stirrers' It is very similar to the proposal which was put forward and sent to honourable members last year by the Australian Council of Churches in a letter from the Reverend F. G. Engel on 19lh November 1971. It is a reasoned and a reasonable policy and the Labor Party commends it to the conscience of the Australian nation. 
The point was made by several Government supporters tonight that by developing these policies we will develop a white backlash; that we are to give Aborigines so many advantages that underprivileged nonAboriginal people in Australia will feel antagonistic towards the Aboriginal people. This is not the attitude of the Labor Party. We do not say that all of the underprivileged people in this country are Aboriginal. We recognise that there are basic needs in social services, housing, training for employment and across the whole field. However, what we do say is that the Aboriginal community in this country is the most easily identifiable group of underprivileged people and of culturally deprived people. We can single out their needs because they are more easily seen than the needs of other underprivileged and culturally deprived groups. We do not discount the needs of other groups, but we have a responsibility towards these people. 
We are alone amongst the British colonies on this point because the Aboriginal people were a hunting people. They did not till the land and we took their soil from them in a way in which British settle.ment did not take the soil from the Indians in Canada or in other parts of the world. If one looks honestly at the situation in South Africa it can be said that the British government of the day ensured that land was reserved for the native people of South Africa and other colonies in Africa. Australia has the worst record of the lot. It is our task in this generation - in our time - and it is our responsibility as members of the Federal Parliament with a direct responsibility in the Northern Territory to carry into effect such enlightened policies as will enable people in the future to say: 'Many wrongs were done to the Aboriginal people of Australia but in the 1970s the Parliament of the day rectified the position and set the Aborigines on the road to equal opportunity in the Australian community'. That is the policy of the Australian Labor Party. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What prospecting authorities under the Min ing Ordinance have been granted within Aboriginal reserves in the Northern Territory? 
When was each prospecting authority granted and to whom? 
(2) and (3) 
What area was involved in each case? 
Except the requirement for publication of the application in a newspaper, is any action taken to advise the Aboriginal occupants of reserves when an application is lodged? 
Is the approval of the Welfare Branch sought before prospecting authorities are issued on reserves? 
The occasion of a defence review set out in a ministerial statement is always of interest. We do not have such a review in the Parliament as often as we may. The defence review we are discussing is a curious one in that it reflects certain basic changes in Government defence values and also defers consideration of so many matters. From reading the defence review we see that so many matters will be laid before the Parliament at a later point in time. 
The review goes through the record of our equipment needs and our defence personnel. It tells us, for example, that the Neptune aircraft are just about ready to be phased out - that they are almost obsolescent. Also it tells us that the life of HMAS 'Melbourne' will not extend beyond 1980. It mentions all the questions of reequipping our armed Services which have been common knowledge on both sides of this Parliament for many years. The review does not spell out anything to any great extent. I think that it uses generalisms rather than setting out any specific new policies. 
There are, of course, changes in values. These changes were put forward in a speech tonight by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  who again put the policy on defence that he has propounded for quite a period of time. This is a policy which some people have referred to as 'fortress Australia' - one may say 'fortress Australia with a flexible response capacity'. This policy was completely unacceptable to many people on the Government side of the House when it was first put by the right honourable gentleman, but they have come round to that point of view now. 
One can talk all one likes about past wars. The honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  who spoke a few moments ago took us back to the time when  Mr Chamberlain  visited Munich. One can talk about the Second World War, about Korea or about Vietnam. Of course, there are lessons to be learned from all of these wars. But what we are concerned about is the future. It is obvious that we live in a radically different world. For a start, forward defence was feasible as a policy when our forward defence as far as Vietnam was concerned meant contributing some 7,500 troops when the Americans were contributing over half a million and up to threequarters of a million troops together with a massive air force operating from Thailand and naval support.. In other words, forward defence is feasible for Australia when we can go along with and support great countries like the United States; it is not feasible when we have to do it ourselves by ourselves. I do not think that anyone in his right mind would suggest that we have the capacity to do so. 
Let us look at the arguments that are being put forward by Government speakers because it is of the nature of things in this political arena that honourable members try to explain how the policy of their party differs in such a radical manner from the policy of the other party. In the small island of Singapore at present we have a battalion divided into 2 groups. The battalion was stationed in Singapore as a result of a statement made by the right honourable member for Higgins when he was Prime Minister. In that statement the right honourable member said that he would withdraw Australian forces from Terendak in Malaysia, indicating at that time that Australia was interested in the -defence of Malaya, conveying that it was interested in the defence of the Malay Peninsula as distinct from Sabah and Sarawak. He said that he would take our forces out of Terendak and put them in Singapore so that they would not be involved in a communal situation or the in-fighting, if I may use that terra, between the Malay and Chinese sections of the Malaysian community. 
There is evidence of a certain naivete when Government members talk about these things as if our single battalion there will make all the difference in saving these countries from communism. Our forward defence comprises a single battalion together with what we have by way of Air Force support at Butterworth and a naval vessel on rotation to Singapore. The latest edition of the 'Military Balance', a publication which is printed in London by the Institute for Strategic Studies, indicates that there are 24 infantry battalions of the Malaysian army and 6 infantry battalions of the Singaporean army. So it is suggested that one Australian battalion added to the 30 battalions of that region will make all the difference between survival and non-survival. Of course, it is not as simple as that. 
Our battalion is there as an earnest of Australia's interest. The Labor Government which will succeed this Government will still be very keen to establish Australia's interest in the region. The policy of the Labor Party makes ample provision for this. Perhaps we can draw a guideline between where the Government stands and where the Opposition stands on this matter. The Labor Party believes in co-operating with our neighbours in the obtaining of equipment, the manufacture of equipment in Australia where it is possible to effect economies of scale, and the training of armed forces and ventures of that kind. But the Labor Party does not believe in the garrison battalion mentality. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  who is the Labor Party's shadow Minister for Defence, has said that there will be no precipitate withdrawal of our forces from Singapore or Malaysia. Naturally, we are not going to be in the position of cutting and running. What the  Deputy  Leader says is that a Labor government would be no less successful in building up our armed forces - that is the Army, the Navy and the Air Force - than this Government has been over the last 10 years.I remind the House that it was a Labour government at the end of the Second World War that established the Australian Regular Army on its present basis of professionalism. 
Some serious trends have emerged in recent times. One of them has been the steady and persistent decline in the numbers in the Citizen Military Forces, and the principal reason for this has been the operation of the national service scheme and the fact that so many of our skilled personnel and so much of our equipment have been tied up in servicing the national service scheme. Many of the men who have served in the CMF have given it away for a variety of reasons. The kind of reasons that they have advanced to me - and I dare say that they have advanced similar reasons to other members in this House - is that they do not get the best equipment, that the best equipment is reserved for the permanent forces. This is not illogical; certainly the best equipment should be reserved for any force that is being sent overseas. Another reason which these men have given me for leaving the CMF that they do not get the best instructors. I believe that one of the things that has happened with the CMF is that, whereas in the past men enlisted in the CMF for the sole purpose of serving their country, over recent times many men have enlisted in the CMF to evade an obligation or a possible obligation to undergo national service. So a lot of the element of sacrifice that previously enhanced the reputation of the CMF has been destroyed. 
The Labor Party believes that there is a role to be played by a strong citizen force in a back-up capacity. I know that many of the professional people in the armed Services believe that all our eggs should be put in the one basket strengthening the permanent forces. However, it is not as simple as that. The Labor Party recognises, no less than the Government does, that we have a role to play in our region. But we realise that this role would be played in conjunction with our allies. We also realise that we must have not only a permanent force but also the capacity to expand this permanent force should the need arise. 
I notice that in the defence report comparisons are made between the strength of our forces now and the strength of our forces in 1950. Anybody looking at these comparisons might say that there has been a notable increase in the strength of our forces. But, of course, 1950 was a period very close to the end of the Second World War when there was a large number of trained servicemen in Australia. When the crisis in Korea arose in the early 1950s and both sides of this House supported the involvement of Australian forces in conjunction with United Nations forces in Korea, there was a great number of trained servicemen available in Australia who could be sent to Korea. So the comparison made between the strength of our forces now and the strength of our forces in 1950 is a dishonest comparison. 
I recognise, as we all do, that many of the young men who have undergone national service would form a useful reserve even now. But the sad part about it is that we have been able to attract very few of them to serve on a permanent basis in the armed forces. Many things could be done to improve the retention rate of people who enlist in the armed Services, and I do not propose to read out to honourable members the Labor Party's programme in this regard. But certainly this is a matter of great concern. 
That is right, and I have no doubt that the position can be further substantially improved. Of course, one of the problems which the Government faces - and it is a problem which we have to face with our policy - is that many people will enlist in the armed forces when there is a state of war. In other words, the men who volunteered to go to Korea enlisted because they knew that they were going to serve in forces which were actually going to war. When this Government decided to commit Australian forces to Vietnam it did not give the young men of Australia an opportunity to volunteer his service. No force was ever recruited for Vietnam as such. People who joined the Army knew that they might be sent to Vietnam or they might serve anywhere in Australia or in its Territories. I would agree that this is one of the problems which will face whatever government is in power after the next election. 
The Labor Party wants the Australian people to understand certain basic fundamentals. The Labor Party governed this country during the First and Second World Wars. As such it governed this country during the 2 greatest build-ups of our defence forces that have ever taken place. The Labor Party believes, quite as fervently, as does everybody else, that it is the basic responsibility of any government to ensure the security of Australia. The Labor Party would not leave Australia defenceless or without a defence capacity. The Labor Party believes that we should have defence forces which are professionally trained, which are equipped with the best possible equipment and, given our long coastline and fairly small population, which have the maximum flexibility. This is nothing new. It merely restates the principles laid down by John Curtin in those days immediately before the Japanese involvement in the Second World War. 
Many of the things for which this Government is taking credit have been advocated and pioneered by members of the Labor Party. I look at the defence establishment at Townsville. When I came into this Parliament 10 years ago one of the serious matters about our Army and its training methods was that very little training was carried out in the north of Australia, where, presumably, any threat to Australia would emerge. The most northerly training establishment of any consequnce was at Cunungra. That training establishment was established during the Second World War when General Blarney was chief of Australia's armed forces. I well remember the then member for Herbert,  Mr Ernie  Harding, working very hard in this Parliament to get a defence base established at Townsville and honourable members on both sides of the chamber were pleased when the Government decided to establish a base there. 
A similar position arises regarding the establishment of a naval base at Cockburn Sound. For a long period of time the policy of honourable members on this side of the House has recognised that there was a need for us to have a naval base, repair facilities and other back-up facilities fronting the Indian Ocean; that we could no longer have our whole Navy based almost entirely in Sydney. So there is not a great deal of difference between the attitudes of the Government and the attitudes  of the  Opposition on this question of defence. We are all restrained and constrained by the realities of the Nixon doctrine and by our own fairly modest defence capacity. But within that modest defence capacity - and I do not want to overstate the situation - Australia has a much greater capacity to defend itself than many honourable members opposite realise. This is very much within the consciousness of members of the Labor Party, and no policy of the Labor Party given effect to after the next election or at any time in the future would imperil the security of Australia. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Mackay)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What areas of Aboriginal Reserves in the Northern Territory  have  been found suitable for  the  establishment  of wood-chip industries. 
Have any of these areas been offered to prospective developers; if so, to whom. 
Have the Aboriginal inhabitants of the respective reserves been consulted on the proposed developments; if so, have they approved in each case. 
Have all areas of traditional significance been excluded from the proposed development areas. 
Have any of these areas been found to be biologically unique or of such importance that they should be preserved inviolate. 
What are the requirements for (a) reafforestation, (b) the prevention of soil erosion and (c) the restoration of the landscape. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What amounts have been allocated to (a) persons and (b) institutions from the $90,000 allocated by the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments for research into the Crownof.thorns Starfish and associated matters. 
For what specific research projects were these grants approved. 
On what date was each grant approved. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I ask: Has the Queensland Government sought a Commonwealth grant towards the losses incurred by the serious flooding that has occurred in Brisbane twice already this year? Is the Prime Minister aware that the Premier of Queensland declined to meet a deputation of householders, saying that he had 'contacted the Federal Government about financial assistance and was awaiting results before meeting a deputation'? Will the, Prime Minister make the position of his Government on this matter quite clear as 109 applications for relief of distress were lodged at the Fortitude Valley police station almost 2 months ago and not one cent has been paid out and his Government is being blamed for the delay? 
 I rise tonight to refer to some comments made by the Premier of Queensland, the  Hon.  J. Bjelke-Petersen, in the 'Courier-Mail' of Tuesday, 11th April, in which he attacked the Australian Labor Party's policy on Aboriginal affairs and accused the Australian Labor Party of supporting its own system of apartheid. The newspaper report states: 
He said the alp was doing this in trying to make a 'political football' of Aboriginal people. 
The ALP, rather than seeking equality for Aboriginal and Islander people, is in fact demanding, preferential housing treatment for them', the Premier said. 
It appears that it is part of Labor's policy to sponsor racism in reverse in Queensland and other States.' 
Apparently it is Labor policy also to undermine moderate Aboriginal organisations such as the One People of Australia League.' 
I completely repudiate the charges made by the Premier of Queensland. I shall quote from the Labor Party's policy and give some examples of programmes in our community whereby the Government will make special provision for people who have special disabilities or who live in special circumstances. The Australian Labor Party does believe in discrimination when dealing with Aborigines. It believes that after 200 years during which we have discriminated against Aborigines it is necessary in the years immediately ahead for us to discriminate in favour of Aborigines in certain ways in order that we may redress the wrongs we have done to them in the past, and to overcome problems such as malnutrition, poor housing, cultural deprivation, lack of education and the like. In other words, the Labor Party believes - this is not very far from the sentiments expressed by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson),  who has just come into the chamber, in the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill introduced not long ago - that this sort of assistance is necessary. So, in the period immediately ahead of us we have to discriminate in favour of Aborigines in order to give them equality of opportunity in the Australian community. 
Aborigines are not alone in this regard. For example, in this society we discriminate in favour of returned soldiers. Any man who has served overseas and whose health may not be as good as it might be, whether because of a war caused disability or not, by virtue of the fact that he has served his country may receive a service pension at the age of 60 which takes the place of the age pension for which a person has to wait until he reaches the age of 65. We discriminate in favour of rural workers. At the moment we have a rural reconstruction scheme in which we are training rural workers and assisting station owners who because of drought or the depression in the rural industries - for example, wool - are do longer able to carry on their businesses or have lost their employment. We discriminate in their favour because they have a special need. 
We give migrants special opportunities to learn the English language. We bring them to this country and we recognise that they need special programmes of education. As honourable members know, this Government, as did the last Labor government, has introduced these programmes to meet the needs of people who have specialist needs. We do this for handicapped people. We do it in social services in various ways. For example, in the programme of grants to the States for age pensioners homes we discriminate in favour of age pensioners who receive the full age pension plus supplementary assistance in providing money to the States to build homes for these people on the understanding that the units are rented at an economic rental which runs at about $3.80 a week. So it is not uncommon for governments to discriminate in favour of people who have special needs. That is the policy of the Labor Party as far as Aborigines are concerned. 
The charge made by the Queensland Premier is that the Labor Party is doing this to make a football of the Aboriginal people. It is true that over the years the Labor Party has developed a sophisticated policy on Aboriginal matters, both in the Commonwealth and in the State of Queensland - and of course in other States. We are proud to have done this. I searched the records in the Parliamentary Library tonight to find the policies of other political parties and see what they were doing. In the latest edition of the Australian Country Party platform, at page 7 under the heading The Australian Heritage', section 6 reads: 
The preservation of the arts and culture of the Australian aborigine. 
That is the only mention I can find of Aboriginal matters in the policy of the Country Party. I turned to the Concise Oxford Dictionary for a definition of 'heritage'. It is denned as 'what is or may be inherited'. In other words, the Country Party's view of the Aboriginal people of this country is that they are something that we have inherited, something that is left over from the past. When one looks at that Party's complete absence of policy - and the Liberal Party is in the same position - one can well understand why the Australian Aborigines suffered so much under Liberal-Country Party governments - particularly State governments - over all the years before the Commonwealth, by constitutional change, took up at least part of the challenge thrown down to it by the people of Australia at that time. 
I want to give the lie, if I can, to the idea that discriminating in favour of the Aborigines in the way in which the Labor Party proposes to do it - in housing and other ways - will cause racism in the Australian community. Aborigines live under a great range of environments from one end of this country to the other. If I may speak from the point of view of my own electorate of Brisbane, there were very few Aborigines living there until comparatively recent years. With the rural depression and the drift of country people, including Aborigines, to the cities, large numbers of Aboriginal families now live there in sub-standard housing. Their children have health problems which do not apply to other children in the area. Their children have problems with cultural deprivation and the like; malnutrition brought about by parents in receipt of low incomes or with no income at all; broken homes and the like. Those children go to school with the children of people such as you and me - the ordinary people in the Australian community. If they suffer from any infectious disease, it can potentially be passed on. If there are 2 or 3 Aboriginal families living in sub-standard housing in your street or in my street or next door, this affects the total sociological climate of the whole environment. It is not their fault. The Queensland Government of the day has abolished rent control. Many of these people are the victims of avaricious landlords. 
Discriminating in favour of Aborigines by policies in this way is not only ensuring that problems of racism in the long term are minimised but also making a great contribution towards the Australian community as a whole. The Labor Party is not blind to the needs of other people in the community such as people on low incomes and people living in the outback in isolated places. There are a great number of problems in the Australian community and not all the problems affect the people who are of Aboriginal or islander origin. Many of these people are white Australians like most of us. The Aboriginal population is the most easily identified group of underprivileged and deprived people in the Commonwealth of Australia. I would like to completely repudiate the statements made by the Queensland Premier. 1 think he should look at his own Party's policy which treats the Aborigines as part of our past. They are associated in the Country Party policy with the preservation of historical records and places; the documentation of Australian history; the conservation of Australian flora and fauna; and co-operation with the States in the creation of national parks. It ill becomes the leader of a party with that sort of policy to criticise the Australian Labor Party. 
That is right. It is just an incidental paragraph in a list of matters that correctly refer to the Australian heritage. The Labor Party is proud of its policy for Aboriginal advancement and, instead of our being accused, because we have developed sophisticated policies for Aboriginal advancement, of using the Aborigines as a political football, I would like to see the Country Party and the Liberal Party devoting some of their energies to developing policies of similar sophistication. After all, the betterment of the Aboriginal population of this country is not only in their interests but in the interests of all Australians. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What amounts have been allocated to (a) persons and (b) institutions from the $90,000 allocated by the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments for research into the Crownofthorns Starfish and associated matters. 
For what specific research projects were these grants approved. 
On what date was each grant approved. 
I address my question to the Minister for Housing. Is it a fact that $3,350,000 was made available to Queensland for the construction of dwellings for aged pensioners under legislation assented to in September 1969? Is it a fact that up to 30th June 1971 Queensland had spent $108,554 and had constructed units for 18 pensioners out of a total of 1,433 units built throughout the nation in the same time? Has the Minister approached his colleagues in Queensland about their disgraceful, record? If so, what was the response? What progress is now being made? If he has not taken any action to assist age pensioners in Queensland, why has he not done so? 
Perhaps I should say, with relevance to the previous discussion, that I have been attending Anzac Day ceremonies in my electorate for 32 years and there does not seem to be any dispute about it. Perhaps I should also say that I believe next week is the 150th anniversary of the establishment by  Sir Thomas  Brisbane of the first astronomical observatory in Australia at Parramatta and that in those days people associated with that area looked at things much more scientifically and analytically than they do today. 
The Vietnam problem has been with us one way or another since the end of the Second World War. One does not want to go into a long dissertation on history, but it is a fact that the Government of France, having been defeated by the Germans in the Second World War, attempted to reassert its sovereignty over Indo-China in a way that other countries such as Britain had learnt was no longer relevant. So we had the position that between  1946  and  1954,  up to Dien Bien Phu, the French Government attempted to assert its sovereignty over Vietnam. Then we had a hiatus in the situation. In the aftermath of the war in Korea the United States of America supported the Government of Emperor Bao Dai, later the Government of Ngo Dinh Diem and more recently a range of governments, including the Government which governs South Vietnam to the present point in time. 
At the end of the Second World War we had an exercise in great power arrogance because then, as they have done in other times in the world, the great powers sat down and carved up the world like the turkeys that we carve up on Christmas Day. We have Germany parted, Korea parted and Vietnam parted. It is not a new thing. We all know of the pain we experience when we pick up the daily newspapers and read of the division in Ireland which has existed for over  50  years. So it is not anything new in the world. But just as the people of Ireland desire some form of unity and the people of Germany are trying to explore their way ahead to some eventual form of unity and, in more recent times in the aftermath of the visit of  President  Nixon to Peking, the people of Korea are once again trying to explore avenues for better relations between North and South Korea - a long road ahead, one would think - people will eventually seek a closer form of association between both parts of this country of Vietnam which is artificially divided. So it is that both parts of Vietnam acknowledge that they are portions of one country. 
The debate that we are taking part in this afternoon and the endless series of debates on Vietnam that we have had over a long period of time reflect on the manner in which such unification will take place if in point of fact it is to take place. We know, of course, that Vietnam has not always been a united country. Sometimes this was the fault of the Vietnamese people and sometimes it was not. Sometimes it was because of the divisive force of the French colonial power which had a policy of divide and rule. The French were not alone in practising this policy. The British and all other colonial powers have taken this point of view from time to time. 
We have not had the position in Vietnam presented by the Government in honest terms because the Government has sought to extract and grind out of the Vietnam situation, notwithstanding the suffering of the people of Vietnam, the last ounce of political advantage. So we have had a whole series of kaleidoscopes shown to us. We have heard the argument of aggression from the north. One can remember those Liberal pamphlets, ' Government pamphlets, usually printed in blue but for this purpose printed in red or perhaps yellow, showing arrows extending down towards Australia with the explanation that this was the thrust of Communist China between the Indian and Pacific Oceans. 
As a result of this philosphy there was a gradually increasing Australian involvement in Vietnam. Initially it was by way of advisers. In  1965  the first Australian battalion was sent to Vietnam and was stationed at Bien Hoa. In  1966  the involvement became larger when Australia took over responsibility for the Phuoc Tuy Province with  2  battalions stationed at Nui Dat. Subsequent to the  1966  election there were  3  battalions as well as Caribou and Canberra aircraft in Vietnam. The Australian involvement as it has emerged has given us not only a commitment to Vietnam but also a responsibility in what is happening in that country in the short term and in the long term as well. The Government made this commitment in the belief that it was supporting the establishment of a government in South Vietnam and that this action would give it a breathing space and an opportunity to consolidate its control and build up its support among the people by the wisdom of its rule and presumably by the justice of its rule. These propositions are now being put to the test. I am one of those people who trust that the Government of South Vietnam will survive because I do not want to see, as the Australian Labor Party does not want to see, a military settlement to the problems of Vietnam. We wish to see a political settlement. 
We are told about the way in which Labor Party policy is determined by conference. We do not deny this. Perhaps I should place on record the policy that the Labor Party determined at its Launceston Conference in 1971. Under the heading Indo-China' the following resolution was adopted: 
Conference is gratified by the support now given at home and abroad to the ALP's policies enunciated at ite 1965, 1967 and 1969 Conferences of opposition to the continuance of the war in Vietnam and Australian participation in it. 
Conference recalls the resolutions of those conferences in favour of international arrangements for the economic and social recovery of IndoChina and the territorial integrity of Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and Thailand. 
An Australian Labor Government will stand ready to work with the Geneva participants or the United Nations or any other agency established for the purpose of rehabilitating and neutralising Indo-China. 
While we on this side of the House quite vehemently disagree with the Australian involvement in Vietnam in the way in which it took place, we all admire the record of Australian forces committed to that area which carried on in the tradition of the Anzacs and those who fought in the Second World War. 
One could well ask what they have achieved. Let Government supporters tell us what the position is today in Phuoc Tuy Province and those areas where Australian blood was shed, where Australian money was spent and where we devoted a great proportion of our resources to help establish the sort of administration that we believed should be established in South Vietnam - an honest, forthright administration working for the welfare of the people of South Vietnam. I make the point that these principles are now being put to the test. 
A number of positions have been taken in Australia on this matter. The Australian Democratic Labor Party has taken a position. I think it would be fair comment to say that I have had some differences in my time with the DLP. I think that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  agree with that. It is a fact that the attitude of the Democratic Labor Party is quite consistent with the attitude that was held by the Government. 
The statements made by representatives of the Democratic Labor Party are consistent with the view that what is happening is aggression from the north.  Senator McManus  and  Senator Gair  have said that Australian forces should go back to Vietnam. They say that irrespective of American involvement we ought to have troops in Vietnam committed to a cause which is so important to Australia. The Government is not prepared to support this point of view. It is not prepared to put Australian troops back into Vietnam, except in an advisory role. Forward defence for the Government means contributing 7,500 or 8,500 Australian troops when the Americans or other allies are committing half a million or three quarters of a million troops. That is what forward defence means to this Government. 
The Government like Pontius Pilate is washing its hands of the whole affair. What a tragic situation. The Government says: 'What treachery there has been on the part of the Labor Party! What a cowardly resolution was passed by the Victorian Council of the Labor Party!' Notwithstanding this, no view has been expressed by Government supporters that Australian troops will again be committed to the war as they were in 1965 or 1966. 
The Labor Party is not happy about the position in Vietnam. It does not want to see South Vietnam swallowed up by the north any more than it would want to see the reverse. Members of the Labor Party hope that some of the things that Government supporters have said are right, that the Government of South Vietnam has so justified itself to the people of that country that they will support it and resist in the war that is at present being fought so that there may be some political solution to the problem. 
We recognise that the Vietcong - the socalled National Liberation Front - represents a very substantial point of view in South Vietnam. We cannot impose a solution on a people who are greater in number than the population of our country. Indeed, some 30 million people live in both parts of Vietnam. A solution cannot be imposed on them from outside. In this connection there is an element of arrogance in the Government's point of view. One would hope that we could draw  a  line across the page and start again. But it would not be facing the facts of life to do so. A Labor government which will take office after the election on the last Saturday in November or the first Saturday in December of this year will inherit a situation. The Labor Party is very conscious of the fact that it will have to play a responsible role in government in settling the affairs in South Vietnam. I would like to make the point again that the Labor Party does not stand for military solution to the problems of Vietnam. The Labor Party trusts very earnestly that the South Vietnam Government will be able to take part in a negotiated settlement of the problems of Vietnam in accordance with the decisions made by the Geneva Conference, because the alternative is unthinkable. 
The alternative is that this war, which has gone on for more than a quarter of a century, will be extended for a similar period. The expenditure of blood and the ravishing of the countryside will continue. It is very easy to take a partisan point of view. It is very easy to say: 'Well, you know, the North Vietnamese have inherited the tradition of the Vietminh, the independence movement of Vietnam'. Perhaps that was true in the mid-1940s. Perhaps if that country had been given independence at that time the outcome would have been different. But this is an academic question and no-one knows the answer because that did not happen. 
On the other hand, one can well understand the point of view taken by President Nixon. He does not want to be the first American President to lose a war. I am not altogether sure that this did not happen in America in the war of 1812 when the White House was burnt down. Still, I suppose the idea of a just war commends itself very much to the American way of life. The Americans do not have the background that the British have because the British fought an infinite number of colonial wars which they sometimes won and sometimes lost. When the British lost a war they postponed or adjourned that conflict for 20 or 30 years and then tried again. This was the way in which the British Empire was built up. 
We live in a different world today. Let us look at the situation as it stands. The 
Labor Party does not want to see the problems of Vietnam solved by military means alone. We recognise that there are 2 opposing forces in Vietnam. One hopes - I certainly hope - that the North Vietnamese will not be able to take over the country by force of arms. I was interested in the speech made by the. Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  in which he said in effect that this matter is open to doubt, that it remains to be seen whether the South Vietnamese will be successful or not. We do not want to see South Vietnam taken over by force of arms. We want to see both parts of Vietnam arrive at a political solution for the unification of the country. 
With that in mind we have criticised various things that our American friends have done. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlan)  recently criticised the massive commitment of the Soviet Union and, of course, the People's Republic of China. Honourable members might say that I am a theorist. They may think that what I have put forward is a bit unreal and ask how does one turn this war off once it has started. But the alternative is pretty terrible. The alternative is escalation. 
Who are suffering because of this conflict? It is the ordinary people of Vietnam. The people of the Soviet Union who supply to the' forces of North Vietnam arms such as the rockets that rain on to Saigon, and the pilots of the B52 bombers which are raining bombs on Hanoi and Haiphong, are killing ordinary people. The Labor Party wants the bloodshed to stop. It wants a political solution to the problems of Vietnam. We realise that this is not an easy problem to solve. We realise that the road ahead is long. But the Labor Party, in government as in opposition, would strive to work through every diplomatic avenue possible, through the United Nations and through our influence with the United States and the Soviet Union to bring about a peaceful solution to the war in Vietnam. The alternative is unthinkable. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
When is it proposed that the Griffith University will admit its first students. 
How many students will the University be able to absorb at that time and in each of the 4 succeeding years. 
When will building commence on the site and what buildings will be constructed in the next 5 years. 
What Commonwealth assistance is being given in the current triennium and what sum has been sought and will be made available in the next triennium. 
Will he ensure that no delay will be caused to this project by any action or lack of action on the part of the Government. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What payments have been made to (a) New South Wales and (b) Queensland for flood mitigation during ibc last 10 years. 
What assistance has been sought by Queensland during the period and for which projects. 
Has any assistance been requested for flood mitigation in Brisbane. 
If so, (a) what was the amount requested, (b) when was the application lodged, and (c) what was the decision by the Commonwealth. 
This has become quite an interesting discussion. The substance of the statement made by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  was to condemn  Mr Westerway  for statements that were made in Sydney, on the basis that these were statements in which anonymous and un-named members of the Commonwealth Electoral Office were smeared. Then we found that the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  spent all the time available to him smearing members of the Australian Labor Party in a way which makes any sin by  Mr Westerway  seem to be fairly minor indeed. I do not repudiate the idea that  Mr Westerway  has to answer for the statements which he has made and which I personally do not support. It is one of the features of democratic government and one of the great comforts to any member of parliament or any candidate for election to parliament to know that the electoral system of this country is completely impartial and is run with the strictest attention .to the law of the land. I think we all would be only too pleased to say that, while we might disagree with some aspects of the electoral system as it operates under the present Government, our own experiences of the electoral officers in charge of our own States or divisions has been an excellent one. 
Let me deal fairly briefly with some of the matters which have been raised. It taas been emphasised on several occasions that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has been contacted about this matter and an attempt has been made to say that the Leader of the Opposition is responsible for the statements of a person who is a servant of the Australian Labor Party but who is not a member of this Parliamentary Labor Party and not a member of this Parliament. These standards are not applied to other people. Let me give honourable members a few examples. In Queensland recently a ' public relations officer of the Australian Country Party made a statement about the legalisation of marihuana. It was a personal opinion. She was repudiated by the organisational head of the Country Party. Nobody in this Parliament asks the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  who is the Leader of the Australian Country Party, what his attitude is to a statement made by the public relations officer of the Country Party in Queensland because everybody knows that the  Deputy  Prime Minister has no responsibility in this matter. 
I was interested in the comments made by the Minister for Shipping and Transport about the central organisation overriding the interests of the local people. If we are to become political in this debate I will refer to a situation in Queensland at the moment, on the eve of a State election. The Liberal Party at its conference last year gave the right to local branch organis ations to nominate candidates. This right has been taken up at Landsborough, Redcliffe and on the Gold Coast and we have Liberal Party candidates there now carrying the banner of the Liberal Party against Country Party candidates. We have the Country Party in Queensland officially asking why the Liberal Party central machine cannot control its local organisations. They want it both ways. If we are again to fight this question of responsibility . we can ask why the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  does not repudiate the statements made by the Minister for Housing.  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  last weekend when he rejected the approach of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  to The Little Red Schoolbook'. Surely it is a matter on which the Prime Minister bears some responsibility when a member of his Ministry publicly disagrees, and is reported in the newspapers as publicly disagreeing, with a decision made by another member of the Ministry. These are not the actions of people outside this Parliament. 
I come back to the Commonwealth Electoral Office. I have not contested as many elections as has my colleague and friend, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  but I have that ambition, and my experience of the performance of the Commonwealth Electoral Office in Queensland over a number of years has been that it is excellent. The Commonwealth Electoral Officer in Queensland is  Mr Ivan  Weiss. I do not think that any person can accuse him of favouring any political party. He is a man of impeccable standing. I can remember when the previous secretary of the Liberal Party attempted to intimidate him on one occasion at the closing of nominations in Queensland for the Senate.  Mr Weiss  refused to be intimidated by the then secretary of the Liberal Party who is now a member of the State Parliament. On other occasions  Mr Weiss  has given rulings which may not have been as well received as they could have been by the Labor Party, but he has always been a man who has been completely impartial and fair, and he has demanded those qualities from officers under him. I am sure that this applies to all electoral officers. There are matters of concern in the Commonwealth Electoral Office which are in no way the responsibility of  Mr Ley  and his officers. 
They all fall within the responsibility of the Minister. For example, there is the failure to proceed with a Bill which is on the notice paper today and which was introduced on 31st March 1971. This BDI provides for interstate absentee votes, a reform that the Opposition would support in this House. The Bill provides for mobile polling booths in hospitals and large convalescent homes, again a reform which the Opposition would support. It is beyond my comprehension why this Bill which was introduced over a year ago has not been proceeded with, and I hope that the Government does something about it before the next Federal election. 
Let us took at enrolments from 2 points of view. Early this year or late last year I asked a question about the enrolment canvasses which are carried out as part of the regular practice of the Electoral Office. Information had come to me, not from any member of the Commonwealth Electoral Office I might add, that the amount of money available for this purpose in Queensland had been restricted as a result of economies effected by the then Prime Minister. This is a serious matter. I asked a question about it in this Parliament and received an assurance that sufficient money would be provided to enable a proper enrolment canvass to be carried out in all electorates in Queensland before the election at the end of this year. 1 propose to ask further questions on this matter to make sure that enough money is being provided because this matter comes within the control of the Minister and is of vital importance if we are to have fair electoral rolls at the next election and give members of the public the opportunity to cast the vote which they are entitled to cast under our system. 1 introduce now the question of the enrolment of Aborigines in the Northern Territory. I believe that less than 50 per cent of the Aborigines in the Northern Territory who are eligible to be enrolled on the Commonwealth electoral rolls have been so enrolled. The record of enrolments at the top end and on government settlements is certainly much better than that, but in the southern part of the Northern Territory and in isolated districts there is obviously a great need for enrolments. I  arn  not blaming the very small team in the 
Electoral Office in Darwin, but the system is so denied of money and manpower that in these very large electorates the number of officers who are involved is insufficient to meet the requirements of the task. 1 do not propose to take up the time of the House any further except to say that the Labor Party for a long time has suffered from electoral discrimination. Boundaries have been gerrymandered against the Labor Party at State level in every State except Tasmania. The Labor Party has, of course, had its troubles in this Parliament with the discrimination which the Act allows in favour of country electorates. I am one of those who believe that members who represent very large constituencies should be given special facilities, such as the use of light aircraft and in other ways, to overcome the difficulties caused by distance. The principle of equity between electorates, and the principle of one man one vote, one vote one value are principles which were dearly bought and which should be preserved. Our experience on this side of the House over many years has been that a well conducted and thoroughly impartial electoral system is absolutely vital to the Labor Party. We learnt this the hard way because we found out what it is to fight on unfair boundaries from one end of Australia to the other. The Labor Party, at present in Opposition but shortly to be the Government, will demonstrate its attitude to a fair and impartial electoral system by removing from the offices of the Commonwealth Electoral Office the embarrassment of a Country Party gerrymander, and honourable members will be able to judge our attitude next year in this place not only by our words but also by our actions. 
 The Queensland Grant BDI is very important to the State of Queensland. In the current year the level of Commonwealth assistance to Queensland is running at something of the order of 43 per cent of the budget of that State. Of course, since uniform taxation was introduced, all States have felt that they have not received quite as much as they should have received from the Commonwealth. It is a fact that uniform taxation has been of great advantage to th less populous States such as Queensland. The constant search for additional finance by State governments in the relatively undeveloped States has caused governments of all political colours over the years some concern. 
I was interested, in looking at this Bill, to go back to the financial statement of the latest Labor Government in Queensland made by the Honourable E. J. Walsh on 20th September 1956 to compare that with the financial statement made last year and to note the change in the financial pattern of Queensland and its increased dependency on the Commonwealth. Some comment was made by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  who has just resumed his seat, on developments in South Australia compared with those in Queensland over the years. He gave credit to the gerrymander Government of South Australia led by the then Premier for many years,  Mr Playford,  who is now  Sir Thomas  Playford, and went on to say that this was the reason why South Australia had made progress in comparison with Queensland. South Australia and Queensland are 2 very difficult States to compare because South Australia is very limited in resources and development is concentrated on the south-east corner. In addition South Australia had the great advantage during the Second World War when Labor governments presided in this place of being furtherest away from the Japanese invasion. Therefore South Australia received a flying start with industrial development because of assistance it received from the Commonwealth government of that day. This is not to denigrate what succeeding State governments have done in South Australia but merely to record that during the war munition factories were built in South Australia and were not built in the electorate of Herbert or in the north of Australia. Those factories were built in South Australia close to iron and steel supplies and, of course, the shipbuilding facilities at Whyalla. As I have said, South Australia was furthest away from the war time threat. 
I cannot understand honourable members apologising for the backwardness of Queensland after 15 years of CountryLiberal Party Government. There must be better explanations.It is not true, of course, that the Government of Queensland has always felt it has received a fair deal from the Commonwealth. For example, an article appeared in the 'Courier Mail' of 16th February this year. Under the heading 'A "shabby deal" for Brisbane' the article stated: 
Brisbane had been given a shabby, unfair deal by an inflexible Prime Minister, the State Treasurer  (Sir Gordon Chalk)  said last night. 
He criticised the Premiers' Conference decision under which the unemployment grant to Queensland would be doubled from $450,000 a month for the rest of the current financial year, but only for rural areas. 
He pointed out: 
I fought across the table for nearly half an hour' . . . 'but got an inflexible "No" '. 
That was the level of Commonweolth assistance which was given to the metropolitan area of Queensland as recently as February of this year at a time when the State Treasurer was seeking Commonwealth funds for the relief of urban unemployment. The latest figures available indicate that the level of unemployment in the metropolitan area of Brisbane stood at the end of March at 9,314 people; that is, persons registered for employment. This is much too high. 
The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  gave credit to the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  - who has been getting credit for a lot of things lately - and said that he was the manwho thought up the idea of an application by the State to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. This is not true. When the Labor Government went out of office in Queensland it had accumulated very substantial reserves which were built up in part by the profits of the railways during the war. These reserves precluded an approach to the Commonwealth by Queensland as a mendicant State mainly because this arrangement arose out of the experience of Labor governments that took over in Queensland in the depression days and managed the finances of that State in a very prudent manner. But when the Country-Liberal Party Government was elected on 3rd August 1957 - known in Queensland as black Saturday - the Treasurer,  Mr Hiley,  who is now  Sir. Thomas  Hiley, got the idea that he would spend the reserves in trust funds that the Queensland Government then held and throw 
Queensland to the Grants Commission. Somewhat belatedly, that is what has happened. 
I am not quite sure of the year, but in the early 1960s Victoria announced its intention of applying to the Grants Commission at the same time as Queensland was going to apply. This would have meant that there would have been only one standard State. The Commonwealth came to the party with a revision of the income tax reimbursement formula and Queensland decided not to apply. 
I do not blame the Government of Queensland for applying to the Grants Commission. I think that any State government is entitled to get whatever monetary assistance from the Commonwealth it can. But t think there are some very serious matters that have been raised in the reports of the Grants Commission. The low level of royalties is one example. It is obvious that before the Queensland Government can go back to the Grants Commission with any surety of what it will get in future years it will have to look at how it raises its revenue. 1 want to make a few comments on some aspects of Country-Liberal Party rule in Queensland, and as my predecessors in this debate tonight have done, compare that Government with Labor governments. First of all, the question of hospitals was raised. I would have thought that this would be almost the last thing any Government supporter would raise. I well remember when a Labor government, led by the present  Senator Gair,  fought this Government to retain free hospitalisation in Queensland. Over the years this Commonwealth Government has refused to support free hospitalisation and indeed has done everything it can to destroy free hospitalisation. Free hospitals existed in States other than Queensland prior to that time. If we look at the estimates for Queensland we shall find that in 1970-71 S68m was expended from the Hospital Administration Trust Fund and that in the current year almost $79m is required. Hospital benefits from the Commonwealth have been as follows: 1969-70 - SI, 090,608 and 1970-71- $955,028; and the estimate  or  1971-72 is $970,000. Hospital expenditure in Queensland is rising and the Commonwealth support by way of hospital benefits is falling consistently year by year. 
We have the ridiculous position where the Minister for Health in Queensland, who is responsible for hospitals, has poured scorn on the Labor Party's health scheme which would increase assistance to Queensland's free public hospitals by $22m a year. Hospitalisation in Queensland is free only in the sense that one does not pay for it when one is sick. As the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  correctly said, the people in Queensland pay for free hospitalisation at other times. They pay for it in the smaller amount of money that is available for education and in other fields. I am not knocking free hospitalisation. A Labor government set up the system and Queenslanders want it. But the hospitals are operated at a cost and a Labor Federal government would . ensure that money is made available to improve them. 
I would like to deal with the record of the Queensland Government in the field of housing, because this is another area in which the Queensland Government is assisted financially under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. Before I talk about this I would like to mention also the assistance given by the Commonwealth under the dwellings for aged pensioners scheme. In 1969 $3,350,000 was provided to Queensland over a 5-year term under this scheme. Up to 30th June 1971 Queensland had spent $108,554 and constructed 18 units. Queensland has one in 6 of eligible aged pensioners and has constructed one in 82 of the units, which is the worst record in the nation. This is an example of an area in which Commonwealth money was available and had been appropriated but which has not been taken up because of the ineptitude and incapacity of the State Government. 
I would like to mention the work of the Queensland Housing Commission. It is interesting to consider just what the cost of the Country-Liberal Party Government has been to Queensland since 1957. When it was elected in that year it abolished the previous system of acquiring land for the Queensland Housing Commission. Labor governments of earlier days acquired dairy farms and other areas suitable for development perhaps 5 years ahead of the urban spread in metropolitan areas and country towns. It paid the people from whom it acquired the land a reasonable sum and subdivided the properties in order that suitable land would be available at the most economical cost. Land was then made available. As honourable members know, people c;m elect to purchase homes built  under  the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. They could do this with a margin to cover the cost but the State sought to make no exorbitant profit out of land subdivision. 
When the new government came into office, firstly all of the allotments which had been acquired and subdivided were revalued and were made available for purchase at the current valuations. Since that time the system of land being subdivided by the Queensland Housing Commission has been abolished and land is now purchased from subdividers and land speculators, which of course has meant an enormous increase in the cost of housing in Queensland. Not only has the cost of housing risen, but the number of government houses being built is actually falling. Let me make some comparisons. Tn the field of workers dwellings built under the long established Queensland scheme and provided out of loan funds, in 1.959-60 the number of workers dwellings built in Queensland was 521 and in 1968-69 the number of workers dwellings built in Queensland was 295. Under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement the number of houses built in 1956-57 - which would have been the last year the Labor Government was in office - was 1,369 and in 1966-67 - which is the last year for which figures are shown in the Commonwealth 'Year Book' - 1.252 houses were built. Notwithstanding the fact that the Queensland population has increased in that period, the actual number of houses built through the Queensland Housing Commission has fallen. 
When one considers housing one should also consider the abolition of rent control and all that this has meant to people in receipt of low incomes, the working people and those people who are obliged to rent houses rather than to purchase them. When Labor was in office in Queensland it kept a certain proportion of the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement homes for people who wanted to rent a home rather than to purchase a home. This does not apply only to people on low incomes. It includes people whose occupations require them to move around, such as school teachers, bank officers and the like, and who very frequently prefer to rent a home rather than to purchase a home. The Queensland Government's policy since 1957 has been to sell every home it can. We all want to see a high level of home ownership, but we all must acknowledge that there is a need to cater for those people who wish to rent a home. 
I do not have a great deal of time in this debate, but I would like finally to deal with the railways. The Commonwealth over the years has assisted the other States in rail standardisation work. When assistance was sought for the reconstruction of the Mount Isa railway in Queensland, it was refused in the first place.  Sir Thomas  Hiley went overseas to raise money, but he was unsuccessful. Eventually money was loaned to Queensland at a high rate of interest compared with the grants made available to other States for rail standardisation. An outstanding failure of the present State Government has been its failure to provide a fast transport system to Inala - a Brisbane suburb which is a housing commission area - which system was under way under the previous Labor Government. When the present State Goverment came into office it abandoned the plan for the electrification of railways. We know the difficulties that exist in the metropolitan area of Brisbane with the cluttered roadways, the problems involved in the building of freeways and how expensive this is. But if a Labor government had remained in office in Queensland the metropolitan area of Brisbane would have had electric trains by 1960. 
The last matter I wish to raise is payments for flood mitigation work. Recently I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  a question about the approaches made by the Queensland Government for assistance in flood mitigation. I refer to a statement made by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Premier of Queensland. I quote from a telegram he sent on 18th February to my hard-working colleague Brian Davis, the State member for Brisbane. The telegram reads:  . . 1  might mention that an approach has already been made to the Commonwealth Government for special financial assistance for Brisbane and near coastal areas in respect of damage caused by cyclone Daisy. 
Being rather interested in this matter, I asked the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  a question seeking information about payments made to New South Wales and Queensland for flood mitigation during the last 10 years. In the reply given to me I find that in that period New South Wales has received, by way of grants from the Commonwealth, $10,405,000. The reply which I received today from the Treasurer reads: 
At 18th April 1972, the only formal request received by the Commonwealth- 
From Queensland - is for an amount of $137,500 towards the cost of flood mitigation works within the area of the Herbert River Improvement Trust. However, the Queensland Government has informed the Commonwealth that it intends to submit requests for financial assistance under the National Water Resources Development Programme towards the cost of flood mitigation works on a number of rivers in that State. 
In that same question on notice I also asked the Treasurer: 
Has any assistance been requested for flood mitigation in Brisbane? 
The answer was 'No'. I would like to make the point that the Australian Labor Party is pleased to see the assistance that is being given to the State of Queensland. Whatever assistance is given through the Commonwealth Grants Commission, even if it were doubled or trebled it would still be insufficient to compensate the people of Queensland for the incompetence of the CountryLiberal Party Government since 1957. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Katter)  adjourned. 
I will not detain the Committee very long but I think I should point out that a difference of principle is involved here. It has been pointed out that the committee originally recommended 3 and the Government decided on 5. The Government decided that the committee's recommendation was for a council which would be too small. The Opposition has suggested a somewhat larger council. This has arisen out of the desire that the Government has expressed to have a centre of excellence. 
The range of marine research is so wide that it will be necessary to bring people from many disciplines to that council in order that all of the fields of science are represented when priorities are being drawn up and the knowledge is there at the level of the council when research programmes and the like are being considered. Accordingly, the Opposition's suggestion is that the  chairman  should come from the Australian Academy of Science. I think the Labor Party would completely reject the idea that just because Townsville happens to be the site of all the people who are going to serve on the council should come from Townsville. It wants the best people in each of the fields involved to be present.. 
The Opposition's proposition is that the  chairman  should come from the senior scientific body in Australia - the Australian equivalent of the Royal Society of London - that is; the Australian Academy of Science. It also recognises that several other major fields of research would be involved. The Australian Marine Studies Association would bring together all of those people who are interested in marine research, particularly biological research. The Geological Society of Australia would bring together all of those people in the nation who are interested in geological research. The Great Barrier Reef Committee has been recommended in recognition of the fact that since 1922 it has carried out a continuous programme of research, that it has world wide membership, that it has attracted expeditions from the British Museum, that it will have another expedition next year and that it. already operates a very successful research station at Heron Island. 
The proposal that the Labor Party has placed before the Committee is for a council of greater breadth, a more effective council - not a localised one - to ensure that the best brains in the nation over the range of scientific persuasions are made available at the discretion of the GovernorGeneral. I point out that these people will not be representatives; they will be members of a panel from which the Government, through the Governor-General, will select the breadth of knowledge, expertise and management Capacity necessary for a real centre of excellence at Townsville. That is what the Opposition wants. 
The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  who has just resumed his seat has made the suggestion that some nonsense has delayed and prevented the passage of the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill through the House until this time. As the next  speaker  on the Opposition side and as the seconder of the motion moved by my colleague and friend the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  I repudiate completely the idea that the Australian Labor Party has been irresponsible in this matter. The Labor Party is very keen to have the establishment of an institute of marine science near the Great Barrier Reef. The Labor Party is committed to an expanded programme of research around the whole of the Australian continental shelf; in the Pacific and Indian Oceans, the Coral Sea and, indeed, around the Australian territories, not the least of which is the Australian Antarctic territory. Very few other nations have such a range of opportunities open for marine research. 
Tonight we are committing this Government to the expenditure of public money. It follows that we have a responsibility to ensure that that money is spent wisely and well and that we are not contributing merely to building a monument at some site or other. We have a responsibility to see that the money spent lays the basis of a real centre of excellence as was originally envisaged by the then Prime Minister at the time this measure was first canvassed. It is for this reason that the Opposition submitted 2 propositions. The first proposiion sought to have the legislation relating to the territorial sea and the continental shelf passed before this Bill was considered. Now we seek to draw attention to the vital importance of Commonwealth control over the continental shelf as an impediment to pollution which would be dangerous to this institute. We wish not only that the institute might be established but also that it might be the success for which we all hope. 
I rather gathered from the substance of the speech made by the honourable member for Herbert that this institute was an extremely good thing because it was in his electorate. I say that as a person who has a great affection for Townsville. I spent a very happy year of my life there as a schoolboy before the Second World War when my father was in charge of the telegraph branch of the Post Office. I lived on the Strand. I know this area fairly well. I am going to say things for and against the institute. 1 would not like anybody to think that I have a prejudice against Townsville or its environs. Indeed, I have a great affection for the place. Of course there are substantial reasons in favour of the establishment of an institute of marine science at Townsville, in particular to study the Great Barrier Reef. As the honourable member for Herbert pointed out, Townsville is central to the Great Barrier Reef. I add that it is adjacent to the Coral Sea. Of course it is central to the tropical coast on the eastern seaboard of Australia. As we all know, the Great Barrier Reef is one of the wonders of the world. It extends from Torres Strait to Lady Elliott Island. 
The point was made in the report of the Interim Council of the Australian Institute of Marine Science that the proposed institute will be associated with the James Cook University of North Queensland, with all that that means in terms of academic back-up. There will be people with other professional skills such as chemists, biologists, geologists and physicists in Townsville at the James Cook University. The research people associated with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation are there or near there as well. They would also make their contribution. Of course that is not the greatest amount of back-up which could be provided in Australia. Many other universities are much better provided. But it is the only tropical university, and this is another valid point in favour of establishing the institute at Townsville. Townsville has a fine artificial harbour and it has engineering back-up facilities for the maintenance of vessels and for the repair and maintenance of instruments and other equipment which would operate in association with the institute. Townsville has a fine airport as well. Equipment could be flown in. Through the airport it will be easy for scientists from other parts of Australia and overseas to obtain access to the institute. 
Although an amount of $8m has been allocated for the construction of the Institute itself, when one gets down to bricks and mortar the actual expenditure is fairly modest. It is obvious that this is only a base from which programmes in biological and geological research will be carried out. The Townsville site is well suited to the study of beaches and estuaries, carbonate sedimentation, coastal protection and river pollution on the Queensland coast. Of course, a great deal will depend upon the type of vessels made available. That will determine the effectiveness of the Institute's work, as was pointed out by my colleague the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  A further and, one would hope, temporary aspect of the tasks of the Institute, although nobody knows the time factor in this, is the need for research into the depredations made by the crown of thorns starfish. Order of the day No. 78 on today's notice paper refers to a report on the crown of thorns starfish, a ministerial statement and a motion to take note of that statement. The adjournment was taken on 30th March 1971 by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson). 
This matter has never been brought back to the Parliament for debate, notwithstanding the fact that obviously some aspects of the report should be debated. At that time the Government set up a committee to administer a research programme and the Commonwealth and Queensland governments each decided to vote $35,000 in the first year for the research programme. Although that statement was made in March 1971, it was not until March 1972, one year later, that the allocation of the research grants was announced by the committee. There has been one year's delay - a further year for the unmonitored and uncontrolled spread of the crown of thorns starfish. One of the bad features of the grants approved for 1972 is that, of the total of $70,223, $37,725 was handed back to Queensland for projects under the control of its Department of Primary Industries. I have no criticism of  Mr Haysom,  the marine biologist involved, for whom I have great personal respect; but I am concerned that the administration of the Department of Primary Industries in Queensland may not lend itself to the publication of research findings if the monitoring of the crown of thorns starfish suggests it is still spreading. There is a particularly urgent need for the Institute at Townsville to investigate this specific problem. 
There are a number of arguments against the site at Townsville. I make the point that the Opposition supports the development of this Institute, but I should like to place these matters on record because they are important and should be recorded before public money is spent on this project. The first is that the level of pollution at the Cape Pallarenda site it not known. No pilot study has been done of this site to determine the present level of pollution. For a long time dredge spoil from Townsville Harbour has been dumped into Cleveland Bay. This action has affected the coral reefs surrounding Magnetic Island and three-quarters of those reefs are now dead. As a result of public pressure and the pollution of water off the Strand and some of the suburban beaches, dredge spoil has been dumped further north and the level of pollution at the Cape Pallarenda site is already high. I should think that a pilot study of that area might have a fairly high priority. It was suggested by the Minister in his statement that aquaria would be established at Magnetic Island or at some similar site. I point out That the level of pollution at Magnetic Island is not known. If aquaria are to be built in either of these areas it will be necessary to obtain a water supply, but no studies have been done as to what will be needed by way of pipelines and the like. I make the point that the Wildlife Research Institute had an option on land at Nellie Bay on Magnetic Island for a marine research establishment, but it subsequently withdrew from this option and, although it has not yet gone elsewhere, it is looking for another site because the pollution level there was so high. 
A point has been made in the report of the interim council of the possible pollution from the Greenvale nickel refinery. There is no evidence placed before us from the Townsville city plan as to further possible industrial developments in this area immediately north of Townsville. Is the Greenvale refinery only the first of such establishments north of Townsville? No-one has indicated whether the town plan of Townsville has been altered in such a way as to ensure that further pollution does not take place. The interim council decided that it would be a grave mistake to try to develop Townsville as the major centre for all fields of research in marine science. So the point is made that Townsville is a useful base from which to operate, given its back up facilities, but the marine research principally will be carried out elsewhere. Townsville is a long way from the reefs of the Great Barrier Reef. The nearest reef is the Lodestone Reef which is approximately 45 miles away. Then there are reefs a little further away - 50 or 60 miles. But Townville is not well equipped for studying the so-called outer barrier and, indeed, for some of these matters a site at Bowen probably would have been better. 
The second point, of course, is that all of the reefs near Townsville have been devastated by the crown of thorns starfish. The time factor in this regard is not known. Some people have suggested that the reefs will recover in the order of 20 years. Professor Dorothy Hill, who was a member of the interim council, is on record as saying that the recovery could be in 2 human generations and that this is a very short period when geological time is taken into account. Notwithstanding the fact that 2 human generations are a short time when compared with the geological time scale, this is a long time when $8m is being voted to establish an institute of research in an area where reefs have been depleted of many of their corals. 
The tidal range of Townsville is about 8 feet. No reef within 100 miles of Townsville has an island associated with it. Rarely is it possible to walk upon any of the reefs at low tide. All collecting and research work would have to be carried out by divers. The report makes the point also that Townsville is well situated for the use of helicopters. Of course, this is because of the Air Force base and airport facilities there. But on the other side of the coin, there has to be somewhere for these helicopters to land, and the fact that there are no islands on reefs within 100 miles of Townsville does not make it as satisfactory a place to use helicopters as the report envisages. 
I make the point also that the distance of the reefs from Townsville means that winds can generate heavy seas in that area, and that the so-called sea wasps - -chironex flecker - occur in the waters off Townsville from November to March and one has to be fairly careful. These are among the factors that should be taken into account as the institute develops. What is needed? Let us accept the fact that Townsville is suitable as a base for the engineering and scientific back up. I think that is beyond dispute. Before anything is built there should be an investigation of pollution levels at Cape Pallarenda, Magnetic Island or any other site where it is proposed to build an aquarium. There should be absolute guarantees against nickel pollution and other industrial pollution. One part in one million of nickel salts in water is toxic to marine organisms. While I am dealing with the question of pollution, information about the results of tests carried out by the Greenvale organisation at New Orleans, where the ore was sent, and a study of the leeching process using magnesium sulphate have not been made available. 
I was interested in the comment made by the honourable member for Herbert that he had sat in on discussions about pollution. I do not know what his expertise is, but certainly none of this information has been made available. No criteria yet have been laid down by the Queensland Government for the ponding system which will be used. I understand that the scheme is to balance out through lagoons. In matters of conservation the Queensland Government has a poor record indeed. Again I make no reflections on the public servants.  Mr Henry,  who is in charge of administering the clean water legislation to which effect was given in Queensland last year, is a very competent person.  His  worth was recognised by the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. But it is a question of what considerations prevail - his scientific and engineering knowledge or the desire of the Queensland Government to have an industry at that particular site no matter what its cost might be to the institute we are establishing. 
It is necessary also to have research stations, not just aquaria. I was interested in the point made by the honourable member for Herbert about this institute being important for students. Not a great number of students at the James Cook University are engaged in the field of marine biological research. Heron Island has accommodation for a substantial number of students in the project conducted over a great many years by the Great Barrier Reef Committee with which the University of Queensland now is associated. It will not be of any use for students if the base is at Townsville if the aquaria are elsewhere, say at Lizard Island and Daydream Island as the honourable member for Herbert mentioned. What we really need are research stations on the reef. Lizard Island is an excellent site in that area. It is not affected by the crown of thorns starfish. However, one would think, given the research station on Heron Island, that a high priority would be given to a further research station somewhere in the Torres Straits area in waters which clearly are known to be Australian. These research stations could be set up for expenditure of the order of Sim. 
I make the point that this should be a centre of excellence. The needs are fairly modest but they would have to be built where scientists can get out and work for weeks or months on the reef. Of course the report emphasises - we agree completely with it - that the institute should be provided with adequate vessels to carry out its work not only in the biological field, which naturally predominates in discussions of this kind, but also in the geological field and the other areas of marine research. What members of the Opposition have set before the House is a realistic indication of the sort of institute that we would like to see established at Townsville. Townsville does not require a monument or a tourist attraction. The nation requires a real centre of excellence in an institute of marine research. 
We note that the Bill does not give the proposed council the broad responsibility envisaged by the report, nor does it establish another national body to carry out these functions. This, of course, is a pity. However it would be undesirable for the council of this institute to distribute research grants across the board when it has a particular administrative responsibility for the project at Townsville itself. It would follow that whatever it might have done, whatever it may do in the future, the council would always be subject to criticism that it was looking after its own institute for which, of course, it has a first responsibility. 
The honourable member for Herbert cast some scorn on the suggestion that a marine research institute could be established in Sydney. Of course, in Sydney there are problems of pollution. No national programme of marine research can be domiciled in any one particular place. The institute in Townsville is, I take it, designed principally to carry out research on the Barrier Reef. There are problems in setting up a centre of excellence - the task of co-ordinating programmes of study and research over our enormous continental shelf and of obtaining a first class director. An institute of the type that was envisaged by the original statement would cater for students - probably a small number of students - but one would presume that it would cater for post-graduate research rather than research by university students. In conclusion, may I read from a report from 2 members of the Great Barrier Reef Committee because I think it is apt? In 1967 they said: 
The Great Barrier Reefs, then, and the waters around them may be looked upon as a great marine laboratory, a huge reservoir of tropical and sub-tropical animals and plants, with a variety of calcareous sediments and a great range of reef and island forms. A laboratory with enough problems to occupy hundreds of zoologists, botanists, geologists, geographers, chemists, biochemists, microbiologists, physiologists and parasitologists for an indefinitely long period. It awaits the hundreds. 
The Opposition trusts that this Institute, properly administered and properly protected from pollution, will make that contribution. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
At the end of the luncheon adjournment I expressed to the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  the view that he was making matters very difficult because there was not a single thing he said with which I disagreed. I can reaffirm that statement because I think it is true that all honourable members at some time express views which are widely held in the Parliament and which ought to be expressed in the best interests of the nation. I thank the honourable member for the very expert way in which he has unravelled the legal complexities - or perhaps one should say explained the legal complexities because without doubt these complexities are yet to be unravelled. 
Without any of the legal background of my predecessor in this debate, T should like to consider again some of the matters that he has raised. The legislation that we have before us was introduced into the Parliament on 16th April 1970 - over 2 years ago - as a result of a decision made by the Gorton Cabinet. The Bill was presented to this House by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who made a very succinct speech on the legislation. At that time the proposal was that the Commonwealth should pass this legislation in order that the States might challenge the legislation in the High Court which alone could determine just where the legal responsibilities began and ended. Operating, as we do, in a Federation, there were of course differences of opinion, and these are difficulties that any Australian Prime Minister and any Australian national government would have to face. This was regarded as throwing an unfair burden on the States. So after some conferences with the States, the then Prime Minister indicated that the Commonwealth would pay the legal expenses pf the States. In other words, everything was being done to make it easy for this matter to go to the High Court at minimum expense to the State governments - or perhaps at even no expense to the State governments. 
The reason why this legislation has waited 2 years to be debated has been the complete failure by this Government to negotiate with the States and, indeed, the in-fighting in the political parties on the Government side. All of the political par ties represented in this House reflect the characteristics of the Australian Federation. All of the major parties have their own branches in each State. These are the people who select and endorse candidates for election to parliament. I think it is fair to say that in many cases political parties are concerned more with State parliaments and State legislation than they are with the Commonwealth Parliament and Commonwealth legislation. This is a problem which any national parliament or any Prime Minister has to face. 
So the position arose that the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  not having had a great deal of experience in negotiating with the States, was unable to cope with the problem at that time, and this Government has not faced up to that problem since that time. The whole endeavour has been to defer this legislation until after the election - perhaps for ever. The Government will do anything but have a conflict with the States at a time when the stocks of Government parties have been shown to be not very high. I agree with the honourable member for Moreton about the urgency of this legislation, and support all he said about the fast changing pattern of international law and the reasons why consideration of this Bill should be concluded urgently in this place, why it should be passed by the Senate and put on the statute book in order that it might go to the High Court. 
The problem of defence is involved. It has been pointed out that the continental shelf around Australia is very large - one of the largest in the world. In many parts of the world - the United States is an example - it has been found desirable to place early warning devices on the continental shelf. We all admit that there is an increasing capacity to develop the commercial resources of the continental shelf. It is obvious that this must have a military significance as well. If it is possible to develop the resources of the sea bed - the manganese nodules and the like which the honourable member for Moreton was talking about - and if it is possible to develop vehicles that can move over the seabed for commercial purposes, it also is possible to develop similar vehicles for military purposes. The Royal Australian Navy has recognised this fact and in recent times its submarine component has been restored. It now has 4 Oberon class submarines and 2 more are on order. These submarines are ideal for operating in the fairly shallow waters of the continental shelf so in one aspect of our defence it has been recognised that we have these responsibilities. But to another aspect, namely, Commonwealth law, the Government attaches no urgency at all. 
The question of the maritime boundaries in the Torres Straits was raised. Unfortunately it was raised again recently in the Queensland State elections which have not yet been determined. This is not only an academic exercise, because it vitally affects good relations with the people of Papua New Guinea. I think it is fair to say that on both sides of the House there is a realisation that Papua New Guinea must be moved forward to independence as fast as is practical. It is completely unacceptable to me as a member of the national Parliament and of the Australian Labor Party that the Queensland position as recently expressed by the State Premier should be allowed to pass unchallenged in this Parliament. It is sad that an issue as sensitive as this should be dragged into the arena of party Policits by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Premier of Queensland. Within the last couple of weeks, when speaking to an audience in the Torres Strait, he said that he rejected any approach by the Commonwealth Government to change maritime boundaries in the Torres Straits as this was a matter for Queensland. A couple of days later, speaking at Rockhampton, he said that Queensland would not negotiate on this matter. 
I feel nothing but amazement at the arrogance of this man who feels that as Premier of Queensland he can take it unto himself to say whether he will negotiate or not negotiate with the Government of Papua New Guinea. This is an issue that is much too important to be glossed over. It is an issue of great urgency, because wc are spending a lot of money in New Guinea. The skills and resources of Australian teachers and administrators are being exploited in New Guinea. There is a great deal of goodwill between the newly emergent nation and our own nation. We do not want to bequeath to that nation, on independence, a running sore which will poison and break down the goodwill that presently exists without considering the people of New Guinea. Then, of course, the people who live on the islands in Torres Strait are in doubt as to where they stand. I think there are about 400 people living in these islands which are very close to the coast of New Guinea. Whatever the decision may be, if the boundary is redrawn in that part of the world these people must retain certain rights to Australian social service payments, repatriation benefits, medical services and the like. They have been looked after by the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs since 1893 or thereabouts. Their rights have to be taken into account. They are Australians just as much as any of us. I repeat, this is a matter of great urgency. 
Last night we were discussing the legislation involving the Great Barrier Reef and it was pointed out that in the Great Barrier Reef Queensland claims all of those islands within the maritime boundary which it proclaimed in 1879. Queensland believes it must have a 3-mile zone around all of these islands. This means that the remainder of the Barrier Reef is outside the territorial waters claimed by Queensland and its legal status is decidedly dubious. The Great Barrier Reef is one of the great assets of Australia. Most people who go there, go not to a coral island at all but to one of the continental islands in the Whitsunday Passage where they are taken out by boat or light aircraft to the outer Barrier Reef to look at the coral wonderland. The tourists say that this is great - it is a great tourist asset. Quite apart from this aspect there are all the other resources of the Great Barrier Reef as yet unknown. There are marine organisms which produce toxins, which can be exceedingly valuable for medical purposes - for the cure of diseases like cancer, for instance, for which no cure is known at present. Of course, there are very substantial sedimentary deposits not only in that area but also in other parts of the continental shelf. Control of the Great Barrier Reef is a prize of no small value. The honourable member for Moreton spoke of a Formosan vessel fishing for fish - of course 'fish' could well have been clams. But whatever the fish may have been the complexities of law regarding the Great Barrier Reef and adjacent islands still remain. 
Another question pursued last night related to the Australian Institute of Marine Science. If  Sir Garfield  Barwick is right and State control ends at the low water mark, we are, in establishing this institute at or near Cape Pallerenda at Townsville, saying that we depend on the State to ensure that the water surrounding the Institute - the water which will be used for the aquaria and so forth - will be controlled with respect to pollution. The Government is happy to accept the assurances from the Queensland Government that the level of pollution will be tightly controlled, but we have an opinion from the Chief Justice that the legal boundary of Queensland ends at the low water mark. These questions should be resolved. About $8m of public money is being spent on this institute and the pollution problem is not the only problem that exists in that area. However, it is an example of a problem that exists right around the Australian coastline. 
We have dealt with questions concerning fishing resources and resources of the seabed. For policing the existing law it is a fact that there are fishery patrols. Queensland has taken the view that it is the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government to carry out these fishery patrols and the Navy has had built a number of small patrol boats to undertake this work, among other things. But a problem remains. The Queensland Government has a fisheries service equipped with light patrol boats. Have those boats any power to come within Commonwealth waters? I know that there is some co-operation legislatively, but there certainly is not enough. 
In speaking to the question of sources of aggregate I refer not to the Barrier Reef alone but to the whole Australian coastline. As our cities grow larger and larger, as people object to the presence of quarries in their immediate suburban areas - all of our cities have found it necessary to go further away for aggregate, granite, basalt and the like for building material, for ready mixed concrete and so forth - and as places develop around Australia it will be more economic to develop sources of aggregate on the continental shelf. It is not well known that the largest extractive industry operating on a continental shelf anywhere in the world is the sand and gravel industry of the United Kingdom. In future this could be a matter of great importance to Australia and to the buildings that we construct, the homes we build, the freeways and roads we provide and to the whole economics of our building industry. A whole range of matters indicate beyond contradiction the urgency that should be applied to this legislation. It is reasonable legislation for the way in which it treats the States. The assurance given by the previous Prime Minister has not, to my knowledge, been repudiated by his successor or any other spokesman for the Government, so presumably when this legislation goes on to the statute book the States will be assisted in any challenge to the High Court. 
It is time that this Parliament faced up to its responsibilities because this legislation can be carried only by the national Parliament. The States lost their international personality - to whatever extent they ever had an international personality - at the time of Federation. If Australia is to have the benefit of control over its continental shelf and over the resources of the seabed that almost every other nation has, this is the only Government which can pass the legislation. This is the only Government which can accede to conventions in international law. If this Parliament refuses to pass the legislation, Australia's national rights in this matter go by default. 
No doubt the Minister can repudiate this but that is my understanding and I make the point that I am not an expert in law. The States do not have an international personality and my understanding is that they cannot pass legislation which would give them control over the resources of the seabed at this point in time. Another problem is the lack of expertise in international law in the offices of the State Solicitors-General. The Stales are not used to handling problems in international law and it follows that the advisers to the State Premiers, I believe, have given them advice which would not stand up to a challenge in the High Court. I will quote from an opinion which was quoted by the Minister for National Development when he delivered the second reading speech on 16th April 1970. The Minister was quoting the words of  Sir Garfield  Barwick, Chief Justice of the High Court.  Sir Garfield  said: 
at common law, in Australia as in England, the territory of the Queen's realms ended at the low-water mark, and did not extend to any part of the seabed beyond; 
the Queen's assertion of sovereignty in the territorial sea, recognised by international law, was not delegated to or conferred on the Australian colonies before federation. They 'were not at any stage international personae or sovereign'. Any extended authority beyond the realm arising from international arrangements 'accrued only to Great Britain, and not to her colonies or her dominions or their  territoies  in their own right'; 
I would like particular attention to be paid to the third point which reads: 
at some time before the adoption of the 1958 conventions on the Territorial Sea and the Continental Shelf, Australia had become an independent nation state, ,md the rights recognised by those conventions accrued a their entirety to the Commonwealth of Australia. 
That was the point I was trying to make previously. This ls very reasonable legislation. It has been pointed out that the capacity to exploit the mineral resources and other natural resources of the seabed and the sub-soil is expanding and as technology extends the Governor-General under this legislation will have power to make by proclamation such extensions of the boundary as may seem fit to the government of the day. If  Sir Garfield  Barwick was correct and the States control nothing below the low-water mark, are they not being treated with extraordinary generosity in this Bill which provides that the States are to be paid a royalty of 60 per cent for co-operating with the Commonwealth in developing the resources of the seabed? This is the point which was made by the Minister for National Development when he said: 
If the States co-operate with us in this way in administration we propose that they shall receive 60 per cent of all royalties that may be payable to the Commonwealth, and also all administrative fees. 
The States are acting as though they are having something which they now have taken away from them by a rapacious 
Commonwealth when in actual fact they are, being treated with extraordinary generosity because the Commonwealth will give to them something which they have not got at this point in time. 
This is sensible legislation. It is legislation which, from the point of view of Australia's national standing and defence, should commend itself to the support of all honourable members. At the time the legislation was introduced the Labor Party was extremely happy to see that the Government was taking action in this matter, and our attitude remains as it was then. We will continue to support this Bill because any failure to place this legislation on the statute book will be an abdication of the responsibility of this national Parliament. I trust that this Bill will be supported by both sides of the Parliament, both by the Government whose Cabinet decided to introduce the legislation, whose Minister introduced the legislation 2 years ago, whose, members have so far supported it in this debate, and by the Opposition which has indicated that it will support the legislation. 
All I can say is that as this debate progresses the performance of Government supporters improves. The last 2 speakers did not to any serious extent attempt to smear the Australian Labor Party. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  did not smear the Australian Labor Party at all and the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  did so in a very minor way only. The statement on foreign affairs made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  on 9th May differed from previous statements on foreign affairs in that his statement was not nearly so simplistic as were previous statements. It is not nearly so exclusively devoted to the situation in Vietnam or Indo-China; it makes a wide-ranging attempt to look at the situation throughout large areas of the world and to give Australia's attitudes towards these various situations. So, we should welcome this foreign affairs statement, which is rather broader than any we have had for some time. 1 am one of those people who regret that the pressures of other responsibilities in the Department of Foreign Affairs have precluded the issue of an annual report over the last couple of years. When our present GovernorGeneral was Minister for Foreign Affairs it was decided to bring down an annual report. No doubt this occupied a great deal of the time of some officers of the Department, but certainly it placed before us a great deal of information by way of what one might call an annual review, which is not given in the type of ministerial statement which is made in this House and which, of course, takes into account political considerations, quite apart from administrative considerations. 
There is no particular aspect of foreign affairs to which 1 wish to devote my attention, but 1 felt that I should answer some of the things which have been said by speakers on the Government side. The first thing to which I should like to reply is a statement made by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox).  He said that his Government acceded to the principle that all people have the right to choose their government. I have not noticed the honourable member for Henty being invited to Queensland to speak in the current election campaign in that State where, at the last election, the Country PartyLiberal Party coalition won about 44 per cent of the votes, which was slightly less than the percentage won by the Australian Labor Party, but which gave it a majority of 11 seats. Although I feel that the honourable member's principles are very fine, I hope only that he will go to Queensland before next weekend and make the people realise that members of his Party from States other than Queensland adhere to views such as the one that he expressed. The honourable member said also- this rather interested me because of his position as Government Whip - that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  should speak out in the House about statements made by the Victorian Council of the Australian Labor Party on the situation in Vietnam. As honourable members will recall, a motion was moved in this House by a Government supporter, in response to which the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  spelt out in considerable detail their repudiation of the decision made by the Victorian Council. 
Another interesting thing that the honourable member for Henty said was that the Labor Party opposed the free and unfettered use by the United States of bases in Australia. This is a statement with which I thoroughly agree. The Labor Party does oppose the free and unfettered use by any nation of bases in Australia. The attitude of the Labor Party is that there are times when it is necessary to have bases in this country - we all remember the circumstances of the Second World War - but we do not believe that anybody should be given a blank cheque for free and unfettered use of a base on Australian soil. I would like to ask the honourable member for Henty or any other honourable member opposite whether he can tell me why members of the United States Parliament are allowed access to these facilities in Australia while members of this Parliament are denied similar access? 
I am aware of a statement 
Yes, he has. Am I to take it that, upon request, other members of this Parliament would be allowed to visit these facilities? 
That is rather interesting because there are going to be some applications. The fact of the matter is that, under a Labor government, Australian members of Parliament would be given the same rights that members of the United States Parliament have had but which so far have been denied to members of the Australian Parliament. 
The honourable member for Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  made the comment that the Labor Party does not regard the ANZUS Treaty as vital. It is true that, at its Launceston Conference, the Labor Party changed what it had said previously about the ANZUS Treaty. It said that the ANZUS Treaty was important - indeed, every member of the Labor Party believes the Treaty to be important - but the significant difference is that the Labor Party is now responding to the Nixon doctrine and it no longer follows that we can place the same dependence on ANZUS as we could in the past. In other words, it is obvious that Australia must develop and continue its capacity to defend itself and play a much more positive role. The rewording of the Labor Party policy was not to suggest that we did not regard the ANZUS Treaty as being important - we do regard it as important - but rather to show that we did not want to put all our eggs in the one basket, if I might use that term, and say that the Treaty was absolutely vital. The Treaty is one of a number of elements of foreign policy that are very important to Australia. 
The honourable member for Northern Territory said also that the Leader of the Opposition justified the downward thrust of communism in South East Asia. It is strange how this term is thrown around  m  this House just before elections. I think we can all remember that, when the Mao Tse Tung administration took over in Peking at the end of 1949, it was the view of this Government and the United States Government that it was an agent for the Soviet Union and that this was the eastwards thrust of Soviet Communism into China. In more recent times we heard from the ex-Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, the idea of a communist Chinese thrusting down between the Indian and Pacific Oceans. We probably are too close to the Vietnam war to look at this situation as rationally as we might, but the lesson of history will probably be that the French, the Americans and Australians have all in various ways played their part towards turning nationalism into a resurgence of communism in that part of South East Asia. The desire of people to obtain their own independence and to run their own affairs as the people of Indonesia, India and the Indian sub-continent, of Ceylon, Burma and many other places were able to do was denied to the people of Indo-China and, from that decision made by the French, all these things have followed through. The Labor Party does not wish to encourage, enhance or justify in any way the downward thrust of communism in this or any other part of the world. What the Labor Party says is that people should be allowed to elect the governments of their own choice, that it is not for us to interfere where people obviously are making their choice and that there are always great complexities in any of these situations. 
The speech made by the honourable member for Diamond Valley was like a breath of fresh air. He wanted Australia to live up to its commitments to the United Nations on the matter of the Rhodesian information service. He said that the Vietnam debate was carried on in this country in terms that were too simplistic. This was true, but one could well ask oneself why it was carried on in terms that were too simplistic. The reason is that with the whole issue of Vietnam, the Government sought to extract the last ounce of political advantage from the situation. I can remember in the 1966 elections when, under the leadership of  Mr Calwell,  the Labor Party took a very courageous and costly stand on some of these issues in Vietnam. I do not pretend to be entirely satisfied with the way that the Labor Party's policy was spelled out in that election, but the facts of the matter were that many of the things that  Mr Calwell  was saying and which certainly were the policy of the Labor Party have been vindicated by subsequent developments. But the Government sought to spell out the situation in Vietnam as being communism thrusting down from the north, lt placed no value on nationalism, the incapacity of the Government in Saigon, the propping up of a whole series of military regimes and all these other factors. 
The next question raised by the honourable member for Diamond Valley was the neutralisation of the Indian Ocean. I found it an interesting thought. I can remember when the former member for Parkes,  Mr Haylen,  was in this House and the foreign affairs committee of the Labor Party adopted the principle of a nuclear-free southern hemisphere. The Government went berserk. This idea that perhaps neutral isation of the Indian Ocean might be a desirable thing if it could be brought about, is put forward in rather the same spirit as that in which the Labor Party adopted its policy on a nuclear-free southern hemisphere.  1  say again that the views expressed by the honourable member for Diamond Valley were like a breath of fresh air. 
The honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  started off saying that there were people who claimed that there was no threat to Australia in the immediate future. If one racks one's brains to recall the last prominent person who said that, one thinks of the ex-Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  who, speaking only slightly more than one year ago, said that he could see no threat to Australia in the next 10 years. Although I do not have it with me, I can supply the Press statement chapter and verse, because I filed it upstairs for occasions like this. 
That is true. I would not like to misrepresent the right honourable gentleman in any way. He said that there was no direct threat to Australia in the next 10 years. It is not true, however, as the honourable member for Warringah said, that the Labor Party want to withdraw from SEATO and ANZUS. 
I am going to deal with what the honourable member said when  Dr Evatt,  then member for Barton, was Minister for External Affairs he fought very hard to get a treaty with the United States, but the climate in the United States at that time was still one of withdrawal and isolation. 
If the Minister will restrain himself, I will be happy to give him an article by the Honourable J. J. Dedman, previously member for Corio, that sets the record straight, and no doubt we can debate that at some time in the future.  Dr Evatt  fought hard to get a treaty with the United States. The United Slates became amenable to a Pacific treaty only at the time of the Japanese peace treaty when it was necessary for the Americans to give guarantees to the Philippines, to ourselves and to New Zealand because what was called a soft peace treaty was being entered into with Japan. The Labor Party welcomed ANZUS at that time, supported it all the way through, and still supports it. What we have said about SEATO since the Hobart conference of 1954 is that it is a toothless tiger, and this is what every intelligent person realises it is today. It has not achieved what it set out to do. It was not a legitimate South East Asian treaty because the majority of its members did not come from South East Asia. Many of the nations that entered into SEATO have now either completely withdrawn or have given only token support. One could mention France and Pakistan as 2 of these. That is the Labor Party's position on SEATO. If you like to go back to the position taken at the Hobart conference, you can see that every single word in the position of the Labor Party taken then has proved to be correct. 
There is very little time left to me, but there are some major deficiencies in the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  One of them is that although it analyses the role played by the United States and by other nations, it makes no significant mention of the role played by Britain. I think this is a serious oversight. The British influence in Indonesia, in the recent happenings in Bangladesh and in Malaysia - the British contribution there as part of the Five Power treaty that has been mentioned on several occasions is not insignificant. It is a pity that the British role has not been recognised in the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
I was interested to learn that the Australian Prime Minister was among the first of the leaders of the friendly countries to whom President Nixon expounded his plans and hopes before embarking upon the last historic year in United States foreign policy. I wonder if the Prime Minister said anything to him about the disastrous United States foreign policy in Pakistan, a policy which has set American influence in this part of the world back many years. It would be interesting to know just what the Prime Minister's views were on that occasion, because if he did have this opportunity to speak to President Nixon as one of the leaders of friendly countries, then obviously somebody let the side down, and one rather suspects it was the Prime Minister. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister as Acting Treasurer. 1 preface my question by stating that I wrote to the Treasurer 14 days ago to ask whether he could confirm or deny a statement by the Queensland Premier in a letter to the State member for Brisbane that personal distress of over 100 flood victims in Brisbane could not be relieved because the Commonwealth had not responded to an approach by his Government. As over 3 months have passed since the flood, will the Prime Minister indicate the position of his Government as to whether it is holding up relief to these people, and expedite a reply to my letter? 
I second the motion which has been moved by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  because it is an urgent necessity to suspend the Standing Orders to give effect to the sentiments expressed in his second reading speech by the Minister for the Interior (Mr Hunt) on 31st March 1971. I draw attention to the first paragraph of the Minister's speech when, by way of apology for the late introduction of the Commonwealth Electoral Bill, he said: 
During the last session of the previous Parliament, the then Minister informed the House that a review of the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act and the Regulations thereunder had been in progress for some time, and that, although it was not possible to reach the point where amendments to the Act could be presented to the Parliament for consideration before the 1969 House of Representatives election, the Government's intention was that the review should be resumed immediately after the elections and taken to finality as soon as possible. 
I emphasise the words 'as soon as possible'. The Minister continued: 
This has been done and the amendments we propose are the subject of this Bill. 
While certain of the proposed amendments are formal or machinery in character and need little or no explanation, other provisions of the Bill seek to bring about much needed changes in the electoral laws- 
I emphasise 'much needed changes in the electoral laws' -  and it is to these that I will devote most of my remarks. 
I support the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders because the Labor Party agrees with the urgency conveyed by the Minister in his speech on 31st March 1971. We had reached the stage where the Minister said that a review had been commenced during the previous Parliament and he was bringing in this legislation halfway during the last Parliament. Shortly we will go into recess and will return for a short Budget session. This will be followed by the Federal elections later this year. If we do not take the action which has been advocated by the honourable member for Grayndler in his motion, consideration of matters which the Government regarded as vital in March 1971, and which the Labor Party regarded as vital then and still does now, will probably not and almost certainly not be given by the Parliament until after the next elections. 
The question arises whether this matter is urgent. The Government proposes to extend absent voting facilities on an Australia wide basis so that an elector can vote outside the State or Territory for which he is enrolled. The Minister in his second reading speech explained that there were anomalies and that voters were unable to exercise the franchise as was their right. Apparently the Government considered that to be urgent in March 1971 but it is not given urgent consideration today. A further proposal of the Bill - the Labor Party will support this one - is to improve voting facilities for patients and inmates of hospitals, convalescent homes and institutions, and to enable mobile booths to be established at convalescent homes and hospitals. In March 1971 the Government regarded this as urgent. The Minister in his second reading speech said that it was a matter of great importance that the law should be amended in this way. Therefore the Opposition is advocating the suspension of the Standing Orders today in order that effect might be given to the proposed amendments. The Bill also proposed to tidy up a number of other matters. They include the matter of people who lose their franchise when they are posted overseas; the removal of a person's name from the roll although he has not ceased to live permanently in the subdivision for which he is enrolled; the eligibility of a member of the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory to nominate for election as a senator or a member of the House of Reprsentatives; and electoral expenses, a matter on which the Labor Party has some very sound and profound views. 
For those reasons, for the reasons stated by the Minister in his second reading speech which was made a long time ago, in March 1971, and also because the Labor Party wishes to take an opportunity to move amendments to this Bill in line with Labor Party policy to reform the Commonwealth Electoral Act to make our franchise more democratic, to extend the franchise to 18-year-olds and to ensure that the electoral system is run as honestly and efficiently as it may be run, I support the motion moved by the honourable member for Grayndler for the suspension of Standing Orders. 
asked the Minister for the 
Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement by the Queensland Minister for Housing in Hobart on 7th April 1972 that the Queensland Government had spent money provided by the Commonwealth to build or buy houses alongside the homes of 'do-gooders' who promote the Aboriginal cause in order to retard their efforts. 
If so, canhe say where houses have been bought or built under the policy expressed by the Queensland Minister. 
Does the Government agree that the views expressed by the Queensland Minister are not in the best interests of the Aboriginal and Island people. 
asked the Minister for Housing upon notice: 
How many dwelling units has the Queensland Government completed under the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969 since 1st July 1971. 
Where have these units been constructed and on what dates did they become available for tenancy. 
How many more units are expected to become available prior to 30th June 1972. 
I support the motion of no confidence in the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  for a whole range of reasons which I propose to place before the Parliament, although the time allowed for us is somewhat limited. The Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  introduced the general question of Aboriginal administration. Before getting on to the major subject of debate I would like to say that notwithstanding the fact that some things are being done by the Commonwealth Government, the Australian Labor Party has held all along that what we are doing now can be summed up as being too little; that it is not being done after proper and regular consultation with the Aboriginal people and after considering the priorities that they themselves help to determine, and that it is wrongly motivated. I was interested in the comment made by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts about the Government's aim to create a single society in Australia. I do not quite know what that means. I suppose it is the logical follow through from a policy of assimilation. While we all recognise that most of the Aboriginal people of Australia will probably choose to be assimilated into our society, as a great number of them have, the Labor Party recognises the right of those Aborigines who choose to stay in their own communities to do so. 
We look with interest to the 39 resolutions that came out of the conference last week. I was interested to see that the Minister did not quote one of those conference resolutions that actually referred to the Aboriginal embassy. That brings us back to square one. The closing remarks of the Minister for the Interior were that this embassy and various things associated with it had served the political objectives of certain sections of the Labor Party. What was the Aboriginal embassy? The Aboriginal embassy arose out of an initiative of some young people associated with the Aboriginal legal service at Redfern in Sydney. It was an expression of their frustration with the failure of this Government and other governments throughout Australia to acknowledge the legitimate land rights of the Aboriginal people. It is well known that the government in this country has never acknowledged the land rights of the Aborigines in the way in which the land rights of the Red Indians of Canada and the United States of America and the land rights of the indigenous populations of South America and other places were acknowledged by the respective colonial governments. It was an Aboriginal initiative. 
It has been said that the embassy was not a very presentable sight. One has to realise that it was an Aboriginal initiative. It was situated in tents which the Aborigines could afford to buy, to erect and to maintain. It was a modest expression. But the important question is what it meant to the Aboriginal people of Australia. It was a symbol of their fight for land rights. It was a protest against the failure of this Government to understand what land means to the Australian Aborigines. One can go back to the Boyer lectures by Professor Stanner a few years ago. He explained this probably better than any other person has explained it. It was a protest at the failure of the Government to meet these needs. The Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts spoke about the Government's plans. One has to realise the great frustrations that occur when one sees the shemozzle over a situation like that of Everard Park where there was a difference between the Office of Aboriginal Affairs and the Department of the Interior as to the actual form of title the land would take. These are the things that frustrate the Aborigines, as they frustrate many people on this side of the Parliament. 
There has been a continued failure of effective consultation. One of the things that emerged out of this confrontation was that Ministers of the Crown really do not understand the wishes, the aims and the aspirations of the Aboriginal people. When Aborigines stand up to fight for something it is immediately suspected that they are being manipulated by other people. That is the suggestion that comes through straightaway. Having a conference from time to time every year or two is a hollow gesture. There needs to be effective consultation at a more local level. There needs to be more staff in the Office of Aboriginal Affairs and these people need to be better supported. There is a major failure in the consultative process. I am not attacking the officers of the Office of Aboriginal Affairs who do this. I am speaking from the Aborigines' point of view. They sit down and talk to these people. They know that the liaison officers go back to Canberra and put in a report. Then there are interminable delays brought about by the bureaucracy. Eventually the Aborigines may get something, or they may get nothing. Consider the point of view of members of an Aboriginal committee sitting around a table in some part of Australia. Their hopes are raised. They put up a case. They get very little, and sometimes nothing at all. 
Let us look at the people who were at the conference. The Minister said that there were negotiations with  a  range of people. He mentioned Joe McGinness. He mentioned the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and myself. It is true that we approached the Minister to see whether we could come out with some negotiated settlement or arrangement to give the Aboriginal people a lobby in Canberra. Those negotiations were frustrated when Cabinet decided, instead of allowing this to proceed through some peaceful process of negotiation, to have  a  confrontation. Cabinet, at the request of the Minister for the Interior, made a decision that the Aboriginal embassy would go. How could the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders or any other Aboriginal organisation continue to negotiate under those circumstances? FCAATSI would have been accused by every young militant Aboriginal in Australia of selling out the cause of Aboriginal land rights for the lease of land in Canberra. That is looking at it from the Aboriginal point of view. 
Let us consider the people who were there. A small group of students came. There was a great turnover of people at the Aboriginal embassy. It was a very modest protest but it became a major symbol in the eyes of the Aboriginal people. The very attractive colour photograph on the front page of the last edition of 'Identity', the publication of the Aboriginal Publications Foundation, featured the Aboriginal Embassy as a symbol of the aspirations of the Aboriginal people. The protest was winding down. The Government made the protest a more effective protest by its own precipitate action. Then young Aboriginal people and many young people who were not Aboriginals came to support the Aboriginal Embassy. I had some discussions with a group of young people at the University of Queensland. I went out there for another purpose - to talk about the Budget, as a matter of fact, real or imaginary. Some of these young people said: 'We are going to Canberra. Are you coming?' I explained that I was not going. They said they were going to Canberra to support the Aboriginal cause. I said: 'By all means support the Aboriginal cause, but we do not want violence.' They said: 'We have been making decisions for the Aboriginal people of this country for a long time. We are going down on the basis that the decision on what happens down there will be made by a black caucus. We are going to let the Aboriginal people make their own decisions.' Many young people came from all parts of Australia with that point of view in mind. 
I would like to repudiate the suggestion that anyone on this side of the House had a vested interest in stirring up violence. Not only from the point of view of the Aboriginal people of Australia but also from the aspect of Australia's standing in the eyes of the world, we all had a vested interest in seeing that there was a minimum of violence or no violence at all. I know what the honourable member for Wills and I did in talking to people from Aboriginal organisations in various parts of Australia. There was similar action by the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. Noone opposed a demonstration in Canberra. No-one opposed a peaceful demonstration. All of us would have supported it but none of us would have supported violence. We are concerned about this situation for a number of reasons. One is the obvious failure, of the Minister for the. Interior and his colleagues to understand the aspirations of the Aboriginal people. The Minister carries the burden of responsibility for the Prime Minister, the Cabinet and the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Other reasons are the obvious, complete failure by the Government to recognise the just claims for land rights and the hollow gestures that have been made. All of this resulted in a confrontation. It is for these reasons that the Labor Party has advanced this censure motion today. 
1 was interested in the closing remarks of the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  who said that the programme will roll on and it will be a little like the Mississippi. Probably the people of our generation or the people of an older generation than ours could make some happy and picturesque analogies about that. But the fact of the matter is that we have before us a statement on defence. It is very much a shopping list of what the Government proposes that Australia ought to do in the future. It is very difficult when one is in opposition to make judgments in matters of this kind. We have to do our best on the information that comes to us. 
This Government came into office in 1949. It came into office fairly soon after World War II when there was in the Australian community a great number of people who but recently had served in that war. We saw, when Australia was involved by common consent on both sides of the Parliament in a war in Korea, supporting the United Nations, that there was a great number of trained personnel in the Australian community who were able to rally to the colours. When it went out of office in 1949 the Australian Labor Party left the defence forces of Australia in good repair. The 'Melbourne' and the 'Sydney' were the results of orders placed when a previous member for Kennedy,  Mr Bill  Riordan, who is still alive and in good spirits, was Minister for the Navy. In other ways the defence forces of this country were in good repair. A lot of water has passed under the bridge since then: I am not altogether sure that it is as muddy as the Mississippi that the previous  speaker  talked about 
But we are now in 1972 and we are looking to the future. I think it is fair to say, without going blow by blow through all of the details of the equipment that the Government provides for our armed forces, that there are some fundamental things that ought to be said about the Labor Party's attitude towards the future of the Australian armed forces. It is one thing to talk about this plane or another plane or this type of ship or another type of ship. These are decisions that a government makes as time goes by. For my part, I think that we should be watching very carefully what the British Government is doing in terms of its throughdeck cruisers, the light aircraft carriers, because it seems to me that with our large coastline the Fleet Air Arm is something that we should preserve. One could debate the type of destroyer, the size of the destroyer, the weapons that it will carry; one could debate what type of tank we should acquire to replace the Centurion; and one could debate all of the other equipment items involved. But what really matters is the number of trained personnel we have in our armed services. 
One of the great areas of controversy is whether national service training or conscription is needed to keep up the numbers in our armed forces or whether we could do with a rather smaller and professionally trained army. The Australian Labor Party in the days of the Chifley Government created the Australian Regular Army. I want to express on behalf of the Labor Party great concern about the trends that exist in the Army today. I have coming into my office young men who have been called up for national service and who have skills of some kind. They are tradesmen. They have ambitions of getting into the Royal Australian Electrical and Mechanical Engineers or some other skilled section of the Army. But they find - and I suppose this is fair enough from the Army point of view - that the road is rather harder for them than it was in the days when we were involved in Vietnam. When this country was involved in Vietnam the national service component of the battalions that served there was of the order of 42 per cent to 45 per cent or thereabouts. Perhaps the percentage was a little greater. Of course, because human lives - Australian lives - were at stake it was important that every national serviceman should be placed in those battalions in the most advantageous position so that all of their skills and contributions would be taken advantage of. But we are in a different situation today. Today young national servicemen are going into the Army for 18 months only. It follows that the Army would prefer to place in its skilled positions young men who have enlisted for a term in the Regular Army in preference to young men who go in for 9 months training and then 9 months service. It is common sense that this should be so. The result is that we get an increasing frustration amongst young men who are undertaking national service. 
The other spin-off effect of all of this, of course, has been the great decline in the prestige of the Citizen Military Forces. I am not quite old enough to remember what the situation was at the start of the Second World War but I can remember listening to a radio set when Chamberlain came back from Bad Godesberg, and my father said that there was going to be a war. It turned out that he was a fairly good prophet. If we look at the number of people who were involved in the CMF just before the Second World War and the number of young men who saw the CMF as an avenue of service to their country after the war, we realise that the numbers were much more respectable than is the case today. I think one of the great challenges held out to all of us on both sides of the Parliament, whoever might be governing after the next election, is to restore the CMF to that position which it previously occupied in the defence of Australia. 
I know .that professional servicemen are a bit opposed to the development of the CMF. They want to see every available dollar put into the Permanent Army. I understand their point of view. But notwithstanding the increased degree of training of a professional soldier today and in the future it is one of the facts of life that if Australia is faced at some time in the future with a threat to its security we will need to use the services of the part-time soldier, the voluntary soldier, the man who serves in the CMF. One of the great disservices that national service has done is that it has destroyed the prestige of the CMF. 
It was once a great privilege to serve in the CMF. Men of various callings, of all political persuasions, of various degrees of skill and otherwise, felt that they were performing some service to their country in training to serve in the profession of arms. But in more recent times under the national service scheme a large number of people have gone into the CMF to avoid the possibility of being balloted into national service. I am not blaming them. It is one of the options available to them under the legislation of the present Government. We all realise that the war in Vietnam was not a popular war in the sense that the whole Australian community was committed to it. But it had the effect that a lot of people who were officers and who were serving members of the CMF felt that instead of being associated with an elite corps inside the Army they were associated with an organisation in which a high proportion of people who joined the CMF were wanting to evade the responsibilities of national service. I think it is a great challenge in the future to build again on the CMF. This is going to mean that we will have to devote a higher proportion of finance to this corps. We are going to have to make sure that better equipment and instructors are available. 
I know that the same thing applies to cadet battalions. I refer here to the Army because the Air Force and the Navy do not have the recruitment problem that the Army has had. It is one of the facts of life for those of us who have tried to have cadet corps established in schools in our electorate at their request, that it is not easy to get a cadet corps off the ground. There has been little money available. We are told by the people inside the armed forces that the best people are not made available to train cadet battalions. It is regarded as a dead end job. This is very sad because, notwithstanding the fact that only a small proportion of young men who serve in the cadets at school actually go into the Permanent Army, I am sure that it has great value for these young people. Many of the young men who go to Duntroon started their association with the Army in the cadet corps at the public schools, state high schools and elsewhere. I would commend to the Minister that more money ought to be spent in these areas. I know that what I am suggesting is not popular with the establishment in the armed forces but I think there is great value i.i the CMF and the cadet corps. 
The same thing applies - and I go along with my colleague and friend the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  in some of these areas - to the Citizen Air Force. If there is an area of the armed forces which needs training over a long period of time, it is surely the Citizen Air Force. Anyone who has any contact with the Air Force will admire the skill and the expertise with which these men operate the aircraft and the knowledge that they bring to their calling. But I have always felt it rather sad that the City of Brisbane Squadron - 23 Squadron - for example, has now been grounded because it has no planes to fly. This has happened at a time when we have given Sabre jets away to our neighbours in Malaysia and Indonesia. I am not criticising the fact that we have given these planes away to our neighbours. Surely it is basic to our security in this part of the world that we should develop good relations with our neighbours and indicate that we are interested in training their armed forces. One would hope that on the basis of cooperating with them in a modest way we might, under a future Labor government or whatever government we have, get to the situation where we can effect economies of scale in equipping air forces in our whole region. But surely we should get back to a Citizen Air Force which actually flies and which does not only perform ground crew duties. 
When one looks at the question of defence one can get very emotionally involved at Russia's presence in the Indian Ocean and with what we do in South East Asia. I think that when we look at the facts of life as they apply we realise that we can do very little about the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean because the Russians aspire, as the British did in their day and as other nations did in .their day, to be a world maritime power. The freedom of the high seas is a basic principle that we do not dispute. Indeed, as a major trading nation it is something that we support. So we have to live with a Russian presence in the Indian Ocean. In doing this I do not think that we ought to underestimate or overestimate the threat. I would like to see Australian naval vessels playing a more flexible role in our region. We live in the ocean hemisphere of the world. We have a vast coastline and our neighbours to the north, in the Pacific, on the east coast of Africa and on the western shore of the Indian Ocean are all within the range over which the Australian Navy should operate. Our Air Force should be seen in the skies in our region. I am not saying this in the sense of a threat. One thinks about strategic weapons and the Fill aircraft. I can never quite work out why, given the fact that this is supposed to be a strategic weapon, it should be stationed at Amberley instead of at a place where it would fill a strategic role. 
But given all of these things it is important that Australia maintain its armed forces and that we re-equip them. We have paid a price for our involvement in Vietnam and we do need to replace a great deal of our equipment. We need replacements for the Centurion tanks and for long range reconnaissance aircraft. The Minister has placed before us the Government's programme. It sounds a very impressive programme when we look at it in terms of dollars and what is going to be spent. But the greatest criticism I would make about this Government is that it has always sought to gain political advantage out of defence. It has never sought a bipartisan approach or to maximise support for the Australian armed forces. We on this side of the Parliament - members of the Labor Party - are very conscious that in the years ahead, given the Nixon doctrine, Australia has to be prepared to defend itself and to play a constructive role in our part of the world, in conjunction with our neighbours. I think our principal difference with the Government is that we say that we would cooperate with our neighbours in this part of the world in training and in the ordering of equipment and the like where we can effect economies of scale. We do not believe in a garrison battalion mentality. We do not believe in the sterile idea that one Australian battalion stationed in Singapore can make all the difference between Malaysia and Singapore going over to communism or to some other ideology which is not acceptable to us. 
While recognising that the Minister has placed before us the ideas of his Government, we would like nobody in this country to think that a Labor government in office next year or this year, however soon that date might be, would neglect the defence of Australia. It is a fundamental responsibility of any Australian Government to provide for the protection of this country and no Party in this Parliament is more conscious of that fact than the Australian Labor Party is. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hughes)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the report of the Queensland Government on cyclone Althea. 
If so, does the report recommend amendment of building by-laws to meet the. safety requirements of dwellings in cyclone-prone areas. 
Will he ensure that war service homes in cyclone areas are built to standards in no way inferior to those recommended by the Queensland report. 
 The matter that i wish to raise affects the lives of most members of this Parliament. In debates of this kind honourable members on both sides of the House have tried to suggest ways in which we might become more effective as members of Parliament. It could be argued that because expenditure for staff in our home offices, the offices in our own electorates, is provided for under the estimates of the Department of the Interior this is a matter that should be raised when we debate the estimates for that Department. i have always felt that, apart from the cost of the rent of buildings other than government buildings staff expenditure should be actually charged against the Parliament because staff members do service us as members of Parliament in our work. I have been in this place for almost 11 years  -  1 hasten to add at this stage that I am not making a valedictory speech notwithstanding some comments on the gallup poll - but, honestly, when I look at my work as a member of the Parliament I would say that I regard myself as being a social worker rather than a member of the Parliament. 
The honourable member is kind. But I think this is the position with a great number of us. One is constantly led to look at how one spends one's working day, not only for 5 days of the week but 7 days of the week, and how much of this is concerned with the various responsibilities of a member of the Parliament. One ought to analyse whether the public is getting value for the money spent. 
When I say that if, in my Public Service days I looked at my work now, I would say that I was a social worker rather than a member of Parliament. I am not suggesting that members of Parliament ought not be interested in the problems of their constituents. I represent a city electorate which has quite a number of people on low incomes and people with problems of various kinds affecting the Department of Social Services, the Repatriation Department, the War Service Homes Division, State government departments and local government authorities. But it is one of the facts of life that quite apart from being parliamentarians we are representatives. We represent people and this means that there is an obligation upon us to be available to people. Many people who come to our electorate offices are not people from our own electorates. It is not always possible to send a person from another electorate to his local electorate. If somebody comes to me from the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  if I may be so bold as to mention his name, and I said to him Look. Jim Killen is your member; you should go and see the honourable member for Moreton.' he could well say to me: 'I have been a Labor voter all my life and the first time that 1 approach a Labor member of Parliament he sends me to the honourable member for Moreton'. I know only too well that that happens in reverse. 
When 1 look at my timetable I find that when the Parliament is not sitting most of my time is spent in the office interviewing people, taking down notes about their problems, passing these on to the relevant authorities and the like. Quite honestly I feel that too much of my time is occupied with work of this kind. I realise that nothing can be done this year but the gov eminent which comes in next year - naturally 1 hope it will be a Labor government - ought to look at the staff for back bench members and for shadow Ministers who of course are in the Opposition. Ali of us have a secretary in our electorate offices and I think all of us would admit that a great deal of our success or failure in public life depends upon the ability and energy, the tolerance, the kindness and understanding of that person. I have been fortunate, in the time that I have been a member of the Parliament in having had 2 secretaries who have both been very capable and have bad those qualities. But I believe that we should have an increase in our staff. I would like to have in my office somebody who could do interviews, who could filter through the system those routine things that ought properly to be handled by a public servant and refer to me those things that ought properly to be handled by a member of Parliament because they involve some particular problem, and a person who could do research work to make me a more effective member of Parliament. 
I believe that it is a characteristic of the system that you get a government and you get an entrenched Cabinet. I am not saying that a Labor government in office for 23 years would not be the same as this Government in this respect, but I would hope that it would not be because we have rather different traditions. Be that as it may, we are confronted with certain facts and 1 sincerely believe that the Government - the Cabinet - wishes to keep back bench members on both sides of this Parliament bogged down in their electorates, with routine work which, though important to individual constituents, prevents members from looking at the great problems of this nation. 
In the Federal division of Brisbane there are many schools that have been assisted to obtain libraries or science blocks. I have seen only a handful of them. As the member for the area I should have seen the lot but, because of the limitation of time, it is impossible to go and see the lot. I would like to be in a position where 1 could spend, when the Parliament is in recess, only 3 days in the office instead of 5 days and half the weekend in order that 1 might spend a day reading in areas in which one as a member wishes to cultivate some expertise, real or imaginary. I think we all would agree that if members of Parliament are to make a contribution then they ought to endeavour to cultivate some areas of expertise. I would like to have a day free to go and look at areas of Government involvement in my own electorate and in other electorates because I believe - and I think that members on both sides of this chamber would agree with this - that we have a responsibility not only to our own electorates but also to the nation. So it behoves us to spend some time looking at the problems in other electorates as well. I believe that we have a lot to learn in the working of this Parliament itself. 
I listened with interest lo the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  and the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  who preceded me in this debate. But that is only one aspect of our work. I think it is proper to bring before the Parliament in a discussion on the Estimates the work of members in their constituencies because we do not spend a great deal of time there. If my experience is any criterion I believe that our time could be spent much more effectively. 1 think I am being honest and not in any way belittling the position of members of Parliament when I say that if I honestly look at my work I would say that I was a social worker rather than a member of Parliament. I think that a great number of us come into this Parliament under this disability. It might well be argued that if one occupied a safe seat one could disregard the individual needs of constituents. I do not see it that way. 
I am reminded by way of interjection from the honourable member for Hunter, that some members who have safe seats, work very hard. I would believe that members of this Parliament on both sides, irrespective of their Party, work very hard. The question I pose is whether we do work that we ought to do as members of Parliament or whether we are in effect social workers or however one might care to describe us. This is the challenge that faces us all. I have heard arguments in favour of more committees. 1 think we can have loo many committees. I think you can bog yourself down so much committee work that you cease to be an effective member of Parliament. I think the Senate, if anything, has gone too far in this direction and it may come back to having fewer committees. Itis important that we do carry out these other roles. It is important that we should not be so lied down with routine work that we cannot study great national issues of importance to all Australians and on which we have to make decisions. If we were honest - I think most of us are honest people - we would agree that in many of these areas we are illequipped to make the decisions that we have to make because we are tied down to work that we should not be doing as members of Parliament. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In respect  of  income tax, how many taxpayers were domiciled in each of the Stales and the Northern Territory as at 30th June 1971. 
I do not propose to take up much of the time of the House but I would like to say something about page 2 of the report where it refers to the aims of the College. I take it that on both sides of the House we are, without exception, supporting the expenditure of this money on Kormilda College. However, somebody should say, as did the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who preceded me that there are certain values in the Aboriginal society that we tend to take for granted. On page 2 of the report of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Public Works it states that the Government's policy is for assimilation of Aborigines, a parallel education system and so on. lt goes on to spell out a number of criteria. I would like to join with my colleagues in making a plea for greater Aboriginal involvement in this College. 1 realise it is not just a question of providing buildings, because if the culture of Aboriginal people is to be recognised and respected by teachers and instructors - and this comprised one of the items on page 3 of the report - it is obvious that the choice of staff has to be made very carefully. lt seems to me that there is something arrogant about our society that has permeated all our activities over the last 200 years in the sense that most Australians now regard the Aboriginal society and culture as an inferior society and culture which will eventually be replaced by our own. 1 do not accept that proposition at all. 
A college such as this must guard against trying to turn the people who go there into what might be called white blackfellows. Many of those young people will go back and spend their lives in the communities from which they came, and this is a good thing. But if in the future the Aboriginal parents are to agree to their children going to Kormilda and other similar colleges much will depend on the effect that their time at Kormilda has had on these young people. It will also depend on the opportunities for gainful and rewarding employment that are provided in their communities. It is not enough to expect Kormilda College to be a halfway house in the transition of young Aborigines from the Aboriginal society into our own society. We have to recognise that most of these young Aborigines are interested in learning something about our society, but probably most of them will choose to return to live in their own communities. This is not a bad thing; it is a good thing. The College should genuinely reflect these desires among the Aboriginal people and respect them. The point was well taken by the honourable member for Wills that there is much about Aboriginal people that we do not understand. In those circumstances it behoves us all to tread warily. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does the Comonwealth Government pay a subsidy of $1 for$1 to the States for the relief of personal hardship and distress caused by natural disasters where such relief assistance has already been given by the State concerned. 
If so, for which natural disasters has the Queensland Government sought assistance during the years 1970-71 and 1971-72. 
What amount of assistance (a) was requested for (i) relief of personal hardship and distress and (ii) other expenditure and (b) was actually given by the Commonwealth in each case. 
I do not propose to keep the House for very long. I am grateful to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  for exchanging his order on the speaking list for mine to enable me to keep another commitment. I listened with great interest to what the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  said. He made the point that many of the matters in the Opposition's amendments were State responsibilities. I was a little shocked at this because this Bill is cited as the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Act 1972. Surely, if it serves any purpose at all, it is to enable the States to meet State commitments. In effect, what we are saying is this: These are state responsibilities. This is the legislation whereby the Commonwealth provides a certain amount of money to the States. At this point of time the States are not doing enough and the Commonwealth is not doing enough to assist them. Item (h) on the Opposition's amendment states:  its failure to assist the States in meeting these responsibilities beyond their own financial capacity. 
The point has been made previously in this debate that it has been only a few years since this referendum was carried - a mere 5 years - and that against this background the Commonwealth is doing a pretty fair job. I should like to remind the House and members of the Government parties in particular, that when this referendum proposing an amendment to section 31 of the Constitution - not the one concerning the census - was put to the people of Australia for the first time in 1944 by the Curtin Government as part of the search for adequate Commonwealth powers to handle the problems of post-war reconstruction and development, members of the now Government parties opposed this referendum. By opposing the proposal in 1944 they ensured that the Commonwealth was kept out of this field effectively for another 23 years. That is another point that should be taken into account. 
There is an increase in expenditure under this legislation to $ 14.5m as compared with $9. 2m in the previous year. Let us look at the exact terms of the Opposition's amendment. Clause (a) states:  its failure over a period of more than S years to exercise the full and direct responsibility in Aboriginal Affairs. . . . 
In other words we are saying that the Commonwealth is not doing enough. It is not providing leadership. It is not providing enough money. Clause (b) in the amendment states: neglecting  to consult  with  the Aboriginal people. 
I do not believe that effective consultation with the Aboriginal people is being carried out. In the estimates of the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, there is a provision under the Office of Aboriginal Affairs for consultation and liaison with Aboriginal panels and associations. In 1968-69, $40,000 was provided and $25,000 spent. In 1969-70, $26,000 was provided and $23,000 spent. In 1970- 71, $23,000 was provided and $4,418 spent. In 1971-72, $16,000 was provided and $2,750 spent. 
Over recent years instead of having the sort of consultation that took place at Townsville in earlier times, this Government has sought to consult the representatives of various State Aboriginal liaison or advisory bodies. In Queensland, the State which I know best, the Aboriginal councillors represent only those Aborigines who live on settlements. So as far as the consulting of these people is concerned, they represent approximately one third of the Aboriginal people living in Queensland. If I might say so, the representation is filtered because a certain number of these representatives are appointed by the Queensland Director. At Woorabinda every person on the Aboriginal council at the time when the Labor Party's committee paid a visit was an employee of the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs. I have no doubt that some of these people are very sincere and worthwhile but they are not the direct representatives of the Aboriginal people en masse. In many cases they tend to put over the ideas of the Queensland department. I know that a conference was held recently. I do not believe that one can achieve anything of lasting value by gestures like a national conference. I believe that the establishment of Commonwealth regional offices and the setting up of local liaison with Aboriginal people in the field are much more effective means of finding out what the needs and aspirations of the Aboriginal people might be. 
The question of land rights has already been dealt with. The Government has gone  a  very little part of the way. I believe that the problem substantially involves the 
Country Party. Why does not the Government face up to this issue and realise that within the guidelines laid down in the policy adopted by the Labor Party there are only a limited number of reserves and Aboriginal communities to be cared for? It does not mean unscrambling the pastoral industry in vast areas  of  the  Northern  Territory, Western Australia, or Queensland. Land rights can be given in this quite affluent society of  ours  to the Aboriginal people living on reserves and in significant communities without causing a violent confrontation with the pastoral industry or with anyone else. Our record in this area is of course very poor. 
Paragraph (d) of the amendment moved by the Opposition refers to the provision of decent housing for Aboriginal families. When I spoke on a similar Bill 2 years ago the Minister then responsible for the administration of Aborigines made some projections of the housing needs of Aborigines. He cited research that had been carried out in Sydney and elsewhere indicating that 80 per cent of Aborigines already living in houses needed re-housing. He suggested that the rate of new family formation was about 1,100 or 1,200 Aboriginal families a year. The Minister told me that the figures showed that we were making some impact on the Aboriginal housing programme. On the following day I placed a question on the notice paper which remained there for over 6 months. This question asked for detailed information to support the Minister's statement. In fact the amount of information that the Minister was able to give me about the housing needs of Aboriginal people was very slender indeed. If we are to meet the needs of Aboriginal housing we ought to be providing about $30m a year for the next 10 years. On the last census figures, as amended, there, were about 140,000 Aboriginal people in Australia. 
We are told that the average number in an Aboriginal family unit is about seven. That means 20,000 homes would have to be provided at a cost of about $200m. We are, told that the rate of new family formation is 1,100 or 1,200 a year. That would mean another 1 0,000. homes would have to be provided over the next 10 years. If this problem is to be solved in a reasonable time we will need about $300m. The proposal that we advance to the Minister is that instead of making available $8,250,000 to the States for their responsibilities the Commonwealth ought to be making available about $24m and should spend the balance of the S30m in the Northern Territory. It is only when the Commonwealth makes available money of this order that it will be able to make, in conjunction with the States, some impact on Aboriginal housing. 
Unfortunately, because of the pressure of time, I am obliged to leave the rest of the paragraphs in the amendment in the very capable hands of my colleague, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  We all recognise the wide range of environments in Australia and that the Aborigines in various parts of this continent have different needs and priorities. No-one advocates that we can determine them at the present moment. We believe we have to find out the needs on an individual basis of communities and families. When the census information is available to us - hopefully at the end of this year, if not early next year - then the Minister and all of use should have a much better idea of the priorities. There is still the basic necessity to consult with the Aboriginal people. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  pointed out that too many of the decisions concerning Aborigines are being made for the Aborigines and not by them. Honourable members will realise from reading our amendment very carefully that Aboriginal welfare is very much the concern of the Australian Labor Party. For that reason I commend the amendment to the House. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What sum was paid to Queensland from the National Welfare Fund for (a) hospital benefits and (b) payments to public hospitals for pensioners in each of the last 10 years. 
Br Forbes - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) No payments are made direct to Queensland State authorities from the National Welfare Fund in respect of Commonwealth hospital benefits. Commonwealth hospital benefits are paid either direct to public hospitals or to insured patients who incur hospital expenses. Details of payments to public hospitals in Queensland for the past 9 years are provided below. However, comparable figures for the 10 years as requested, are not available, as the basis of the voluntary health insurance scheme was changed with effect from 1st January 1963. 
I follow the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  with some interest because he asked for a reply on the question of the Australian Labor Party health scheme and what it will mean to Queensland, which has had free hospitals since they were introduced in the days of the Labor government quite some time ago. He expresses concern and surprise at the fact that the shadow Minister for Health, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  would bring forward a scheme of this kind because the honourable member for Lilley claims that it would adversely affect the free hospitals in Queensland set up by a Labor government. Of course free hospitals in Queensland pose a special problem for the Labor national health scheme in the short term only. 
Perhaps if I could deal at some length with the history of free hospitals in Queensland it might help. Free outpatient treatment was introduced by the Cooper Government, a Labor Government, under a means test in 1945. Towards the end of that year, the war having come to an end, the Labor Government of the time negotiated with the States to pay not all of the costs of public bed treatment but so much of the cost as was borne by the patient so that free public beds might be established in hospitals in all States. All the States agreed, and the Commonwealth hospital benefit of 6s a day was paid. At a later time, before the Chifley Government went out of office, the benefit was raised to 8s a day. So under Labor we had free hospitals in every State in the Commonwealth. In 1952, after the Menzies Government had come into office, the Commonwealth decided that it would destroy free hospitalisation in Australia. There was a conflict between the State Labor Government of Queensland led by  Senator Gair,  as he is now, and  Mr Moore,  the Minister for Health and Home Affairs. The Labor Party in Queensland decided that it would nail its colours to the mast on the principle of free hospitals and continue them despite the fact that the Commonwealth would give no assistance to Queensland in carrying that special burden. 
That was the position that applied until 1970. In all that period between 1952 and 1970 no increase in assistance was given to Queensland by the Commonwealth Government for its free beds, while every other level of assistance to beds in hospitals, such as pensioner beds, beds for people who were covered by their contributions to hospital benefits schemes and the like, were raised. It was on an initiative taken by  Senator McClelland  in the Senate, on the very day on which the Senate committee report on hospital costs was tabled, that the level of assistance to free beds in public hospitals in Queensland was raised from 80c, at which rate it had continued from the day of the Chifley Government, to the S2 a day which it is now. I pay credit to those members on the government side and members of the Democratic Labour Party who voted with the Australian Labor Party in the Senate to give Queensland at least the S2. 
Let us look, in the very brief time remaining to me, at what this means to Queensland. First of all, it presents a transitory problem because within a year or two of Labor coming into office there will again be free beds in public hospitals throughout Australia. 
Of course. Hospitals in Queensland are free only in the sense that a person does not pay for them while he is sick. They are paid for by the taxpayers at other times. The last year for which I have figures is 1971-72, when Queensland spent $79m on its hospital system. It was reimbursed about SI 2m by the Commonwealth and S3. 25m came from the Golden Casket. There are still some people in Queensland who imagine that the Golden Casket makes a significant contribution to hospital costs. The difference between the $ 15.25m and $79m is carried by the Queensland taxpayer. That is how free hospitals in Queensland are financed at the moment. They are financed at the expense of education and other areas. It also receives finance in another way. The actual cost of an occupied hospital bed per day in Queensland in 1970, the latest year for which 1 have figures, was $15.70, which was $10 below the national average. So although Queenslanders have free hospitals, in terms of the amount of money spent on hospitalisation there, they have low cost hospitals as well. 
In the city of Brisbane, from which the honourable member for Lilley and I both come, there has been no extension of free hospitalisation in all the years of CountryLiberal Party rule in Queensland. All the free public hospitals in the metropolitan area were built in the days of the previous Labor Government. Free hospitalisation in Queensland is now subject to a financial squeeze with expenditure going up by about $12m a year and Commonwealth assistance to hospitals going up by about $500,000 a year. That means that the Country-Liberal Party Government of Queensland has to find an additional $11. 5m every year. Under the Labor scheme, on the figures that have been given by my colleague the honourable member for Oxley, over $13 a day per occupied bed for public wards, intermediate wards and private wards would be payable. This would mean an additional $22m a year for Queensland public hospitals, given 1971 as the year on which the figures were worked out. 
Yes, I am. 
One can argue, of course, that it might have some effect, but not only Queensland will be paid this amount. The same rate will be paid for hospital beds throughout Australia. The same amount will be paid in all States, and it will cancel this effect. The honourable member for Lilley, with his knowledge of finance, should realise that very well. Let us take the position as it applies now. Fifty-five per cent of the people of Queensland belong to medical and hospital benefits funds. They contribute to a lesser degree than do people in the other States to private medical benefits funds. The Commonwealth makes a contribution towards the claims lodged on these funds. Because fewer people in Queensland belong to the private medical benefits or funds and because all Australians pay tax, under the present scheme the people of Queensland arc missing out at both ends. On the one hand they get nothing back from the tax they pay because they do not belong to the private medical benefits or hospitals benefits funds. On the other hand, because they do not get this return they subsidise the hospital benefits and medical benefits for people in every other State of the Commonwealth. At the same time Queensland carries the burden of a free hospital system that the people of Queensland want. 
The Labor Party health scheme is a fair, equitable and efficient scheme. It cuts out the inefficiencies of the multiplicity of funds. No commissions will be paid to chemists and the like for the collection of contributions because the money will be collected by the Taxation Office. The same assistance will apply across the Commonwealth. I would be the first to agree that there will be a difficult transitional period because honourable members opposite are trying to pretend to the people of Queensland that there is nothing for them in the Labor health scheme. The truth is the contrary. Free hospitals are under threat because of the credit squeeze I have outlined in brief to the Parliament. The present Government offers no solution to that problem. The Labor Party will solve this problem not only in Queensland but also throughout Australia. The present free hospital system is a great comfort and protection to people in Queensland. It does not do them much good if they happen to go across the border into Tweed Heads or other parts of Australia where they are not covered. Under a Labor scheme all the people of Australia will enjoy free hospitals and free hospitals will continue in Queensland. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When will the Government place before the Parliament its proposed alterations to the Commonwealth superannuation scheme. 
Does the Government intend  placing  all Commonwealth superannuants on an equitable basis by updating pensions on the notional salary method before any new scheme is introduced. 
I follow the honourable member for Lilley, the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who has confined his remarks to the situation of the State of Queensland and spoke in particular about the free hospital scheme in that State. He dealt at some length with the effect that the Australian Labor Party's national health scheme will, in his mind, have on the free hospitalisation scheme. He used some very emotional words. He spoke about blackmail and suggested that the Opposition was trying to pull confidence tricks over the people, to mislead the people of Queensland, to deceive the people of Queensland. These are very strong terms. The honourable member is a very intelligent person. 
He knows as well as I do that he has the right to interpret Labor'3 policy as he may. 1 hope to have the opportunity of debating this matter with him outside this place in the course of time. But I do not regard the Minister as being a truthful exponent of Labor's policy. If the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  is the George Washington of this Parliament - I say this in the political sense and not in the personal sense - then the honourable member for Lilley is the Baron Munchausen of it. Let us look at Queensland and the Grants Commission in cold dispassionate terms. In the first place I believe that the Government of Queensland was quite right to approach the Grants Commission. Any 
State is entitled to obtain additional assistance from the Commonwealth in the various avenues available to it. If it feels that the taxation reimbursement formula does not adequately compensate it for particular disabilities it is entitled to make such a claim. I believe that Queensland was quite correct to make that claim. I was happy, and honourable members on this side of the Parliament were happy, to see Queensland get $9m last year and are happy to see it get $10m under this proposal, with a completion grant of what amount we know not at some time in the future. 
In going back to the time when this type of legislation was last before Parliament I would like to say that I regret some of the comments that were made about officers of the Queensland Treasury Department when some criticism was made of the Queensland submission, because I was a colleague of theirs for almost 11 years and I know them to be capable and honest public servants. If there is anything to be said about the Queensland submission it should be said about the Government of Queensland and not about the public servants who prepared the case under instructions from that Government. The honourable member for Lilley ranged over a number of questions I was interested in the comment he made - and I think he was very political in what he said - about the fact that it is the LiberalCountry Party States that lead in this matter - they are the standard States - and that it is by and large the Labor States that are the mendicant States, Queensland being an exception. Of course, if one looks at Western Australia and South Australia then I believe one can quite truthfully say that if these States do operate under disabilities - I know that Western Australia is not a claimant State at this time, although South Australia is - then it is not possible for a Labor government in a short term of office to erode the disabilities which it inherited from a long line of Liberal-Country League governments, as in the State of South Australia. 
I am permitted to speak for 10 minutes and I will do my best to confine my remarks to that amount of time. 
He had 15 minutes. 
That is true. We are dealing now in particular, because it has been raised by the honourable member for Lilley, with free hospitals and with the effect of the Labor Party's policy. First of all it has been argued, and indeed it has been argued by some of my State colleagues in Queensland, that the Grants Commission could oblige Queensland to abandon its free hospital scheme. This, of course, is not true. It is true that the Grants Commission could, in its wisdom, penalise Queensland because it has made certain sacrifices in this area. Under a Labor Government we would ensure that the Grants Commission did not extract such penalties, which in point of fact, under this recommendation, the Grants Commission has imposed on Queensland. 
Let us look at the figures. Last year the cost of free hospitalisation on Queensland was $79m, and this year the cost of free hospitalisation in Queensland - that is hospital expenditure shown in the Budget - is almost $88m, an increase of $8.3m, although grants from the Grants Commission have gone up by just $lm. There is a gap of $7.3m. I remain to be convinced that this is assisting Queensland with its free hospitalisation. When the report of the Grants Commission came back the honourable member for Lilley made a statement to the newspapers. It is reported in an article titled 'Report Backs Free Hospitals', which appeared in the Brisbane 'Telegraph' of 10th October 1972, as follows: 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission's report tabled in the House of Representatives today indicated the Commission's support for the Queensland free hospital system, the Housing Minister,  Mr Cairns,  said today. 
I challenge the Minister for Housing to rise in his place and show me where the Commonwealth Grants Commission's report said that. I have looked through the report very carefully. While it analysed the hospital's position in other States the report made no such analysis of the hospitals position in Queensland. The fact of the matter is that the Grants Commission has made 2 interim grants but it has not yet subjected the finances of Queensland to the intensive and deliberate scrutiny that it will subject them to either towards the end of this year or early next year. In actual fact the report makes no mention of Queenland's free hospitals. The claim by the Minister for Housing is spurious. I challenge him to show where the Commission supports Queensland's free hospitals either financially - that is, by meeting the additional burden of $7.3m - or in the wording of the report. 
I turn now to the subject of the Australian Labor Party's health scheme. The Minister for Housing has been reported in the 'Courier-Mail' and in other places as saying that the Labor Party would discriminate against people who chose to use private or intermediate beds in hospitals. Under the Labor Party's health scheme the same rate of hospital bed benefit would be payable to every occupied bed irrespective of whether it was in a public ward, an intermediate ward or a private ward in a public hospital or a ward in a private hospital. 
lt will be over $13 a bed a day. In an answer to a question asked in the Queensland Parliament a couple of weeks ago it was revealed that the fee charged for an intermediate ward bed in Queensland is $14 a day. That means that under the Labor Party's scheme any person could go into an intermediate ward bed for $1 a day and into a private bed in a public hospital for a slightly larger amount. The Minister for Housing has tried to say, as he has said quite incorrectly on numerous occasions, that there is nothing in the Labor Party's health scheme for Queensland. He refers only to free hospitals and says nothing about the fact that people can attend the doctor of their own choice in their own community and have a better professional relationship for a fee of 50c a visit, providing the doctor charges the common fee. The Minister for Housing has said nothing about any of those things. One of the few correct things the Minister for Housing has said is that in 1952 the then Labor Government in Queensland, led by the  Hon.  V. C. Gair and Bill Moore, the then honourable member for Merthyr as Minister for Health, fought the Menzies Government to retain free hospitals in Queensland. Neither this report of the Grants Commission nor any other action by this Government in the past 20 years has done anything to assist Queensland with the provision of its free hospital scheme. Queensland would have more to gain under the Labor Party's health scheme than any other State. It has carried the burden of providing free hospitals for 20 years. 
The myth is being spread by Government supporters that what people contribute to the so-called private health and hospital schemes pays for the medical benefits provided.. All of us in this place know that more than half of that money comes from the taxpayer. The Minister for Housing referred to a 12 per cent increase in the cost of the Labor Party's health scheme over a 3-year period. He was referring to the 1.25 per cent figure that was quoted at the last election and the upgraded figure of 1.35 per cent that is being quoted at present, which includes provision for additional services. He failed to take into account the 30 per cent increase to the taxpayer last year in the cost of the national health scheme provided by his own Government. I am referring to the amounts paid in medical and hospital benefits. 
The Opposition supports this Bill because, it is pleased to note, Queensland is to get something from the Grants Commission, but it is sorry that the report of the Grants Commission has not yet taken into account the special sacrifices that Queensland makes to maintain free hospitals. When I last spoke in this chamber - I am now drawing to a close - I was asked by way of interjection by the Minister for Housing as to what effect the Labor Party's health scheme would have on the Grants Commission. I said that it would have no effect. It will not have any effect because the Labor Party will pay the same rate of hospital benefit to occupied beds in each of the States and that means that it will cancel itself out as far as the Grants Commission is concerned. 
The point that has been made that Queensland has something to lose from the Labor Party's health scheme is completely wrong. I very much regret that Queensland has not gained more from the Grants Commission but I look forward to the implementation of the Labor Party's health scheme next year when Queensland will gain an additional $22m more than any other State because of the burden it carries. I support the legislation before the House. 
While I am still on my feet may 1 say in answer to that interjection that this Government reduced income tax in this Budget by 10 per cent on average. But it will collect $400m more this year income tax. The Budget has increased by $l,800m. We have been hon-  a), i.0  people that our scheme will cost 1.35 per cent of taxable income but if the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has not made those taxation concessions this year he would have had money pouring out of his ears. The fact of the matter is that we can do these things and probably reduce taxation as well. We are saying how much it will cost. We do not pretend to the people as this Government pretends. Queensland's free hospitals are free only in the sense that you do not pay for them while you are sick. They cost the taxpayers of Queensland $86m for the current year. 
Precisely, and that is why we tell the people what the Labor Party's health scheme will cost them. We are honest in telling the people what the Labor Party's scheme will cost them. I am being provoked and I apologise to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who is the Government Whip. In this Budget the Government has eroded the means test; it has increased pensions; it has increased the homes savings grant; it has made a number of concessions in its new involvement in the provision of hostels and child care - you name it - and it has decreased taxes. What this Government can do the Labor Party also can do. The only thing is that it will do it better. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
How many units have been constructed in Queensland under the States Grants (Dwellings  for  Aged Pensioners) Act in each of the years 1969-70, 1970-71 and 1971-72. 
(a) How many units, not yet completed, has he approved for Queensland under the requirement that his prior approval must be obtained, (b) to which suburb or town do the approvals relate, 
how many units are proposed in each case and 
when will they be completed. 
What expenditure has the Queensland Government been required to meet from its own sources for the construction of aged persons' dwellings and how many units has it completed from its own sources during each of the last 3 financial years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What sum was paid by the Commonwealth in each of the States and the Northern Territory by way of (a) medical and (b) hospital benefits in the year 1970-71. 
How many, members were there of registered (a) medical and (b) hospital benefits organisations in each State and the Northern Territory as at 30th June 1971. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Will he make available to the -Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, a copy of the minutes of the Conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers for Housing held in Hobart in April 1972, if the Minister should request it, in order that the Minister might acquaint himself with the views of the Queensland Minister for Housing as to the precise location of homes built for Aborigines with Commonwealth grants. 
The contributions made to this debate by Opposition speakers tonight have been very interesting. I rather thought that the speech by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  was the more interesting of the 2 mainly because of the way in which he stressed the fact that the Opposition - that group of parties - was pleased with an approach which could be described as representing some sort of bi-partisan attitude in matters of foreign affairs and defence. 
I have not been in this Parliament as long as has the honourable member for Fremantle and Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  But in the period that I have been a member the previous Government when in office attempted to extract every ounce of political advantage that it could from foreign affairs and defence. Now that the former Government is in Opposition it says that it welcomes the fact that the Labor Party in Government is better informed and now sees these matters similarly to the way in which it viewed them. For all those years everything was done to prevent the Opposition receiving information about these bases. Former leaders of the Opposition and responsible shadow Ministers were prevented from receiving information on which the Opposition could make informed judgments on these matters. 
The honourable member for Parramatta said that he welcomed the substance of the approach by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  that the Minister for Defence was being responsible and that the Opposition wished to support him. The honourable member claimed that the Prime. Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Defence have a new found disposition towards the FivePower Arrangements and that there is a new attitude towards consultation with our near neighbours. 
Let us assume that those things are true. The Labor Party's attitude towards our alliances and the importance that we attach to good relations with other nations in our region have always been crystal clear for those people who were honest enough to inform themselves about these things. The basic point is that in all the years that the present Opposition occupied the Treasury bench no attempt was made to inform the then Leader of the Opposition or any of his senior colleagues about the realities of these agreements. 
I feel sure that this Government in office will rectify that matter. We do not expect the Opposition to agree with us on every aspect of defence or foreign affairs policy. What we do say is that we should give the Opposition facilities through which it is privy to information so that it can make responsible judgments. This is something that the Opposition denied to the Labor Party for all the years that Labor was in Opposition. 
Let us consider some of these questions. The. honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  said that there has been no change in policy. In his Ministerial statement the Minister for Defence said as reported at page  68  of Hansard : 
As is well known, previous Australian governments chose to exclude the Leader of the Opposition from those who were briefed on the activities and functions of these stations, lt was necessary therefore, as 1 have said in the past, for us to wait until we became the Government before we could develop a policy in respect of these stations founded on a knowledge of what they do, how they can be used, how they are controlled, and whether Australia has properly preserved its national interests in the arrangements entered into by the previous Govern ment. This unfortunate situation which the previous Government forced upon us in the past, has been rectified. A week ago 1 offered the Leader of the Opposition an opportunity, of being fully briefed on the activities of both these installations. He has accepted my offer and has been briefed. 
The Minister is not referring to the previous Leader of the Opposition: he is referring to the present Leader of the Opposition, who was a senior Minister in the previous Government and who had never been briefed on the functions of these facilities. 
Let us examine some of the statements that have been made tonight. It has been said that the statements of the Australian Labor Party over the years had aroused significant fears. What were these significant fears? Were they fears about the Australian-American alliance? This alliance was established under a Labor government. In  1942,  when John Curtin made his appeal to the United States for assistance, the standard of patriotism in Australia was loyalty to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. Members of the then Opposition - non-Labor parties - attacked the Labor Party at that time for making an approach to the United States. In the war years the Labor Government - I remind the present Opposition that the then Opposition surrendered the government of this country by default in  1941 -  co-operated very closely with the United States and our other allies in prosecuting a successful war effort. This goodwill was carried over into the years of peace. 
Why should there be any suggestion that any Australian-American treaty arrangements would be imperilled by the election of a Labor Government in Australia? The fact is that this Government is very carefully reviewing all of our relations with our allies and with our neighbours in this region with a view to strengthening the ties that bind us to neighbouring countries with a view to developing the alliances to which this country is committed into effective arrangements in accordance with the needs of today. The point has been made about the changing values in the South East Asia Treaty Organisation by the honourable member for Parramatta. Everybody knows about these and the Labor Party mentioned them as long ago as  1955  and  1958.  But this is not to say that SEATO has no value at all, that consultations should not be carried out with Thailand, because this is the only arrangement which 
Thailand and Australia share. But surely any of these treaty arrangements should be subject to scrutiny, should be kept up to date and should be instruments of real value, not merely agreements which we have inherited. The Government is being blamed for being honest. 
During all those years in which the Labor Party and its leaders were kept uninformed about these matters, the Labor Party expressed, and rightfully so, certain fears. That is what the then government wanted the Labor Party to do. lt always wanted to be able to go to the people of Australia and suggest that they could not trust the Labor Party. Now we find the former government parties in Opposition welcoming the responsible attitude of this Government, welcoming the substance of approval given to previous arrangements insofar as they have been approved in statements which have been made by the Minister for Defence. They are now saying that the Minister for Defence is acting responsibly and, of course, the latest example of this attitude is the suggestion that we might be able to move towards some bipartisan approach in matters of foreign affairs and defence. 1 put it to the Opposition that the Labor Party has always acted responsibly in these matters. The Labor Party in the past sought information on which it could make proper judgments and that information was denied to it. The then Government extracted every ounce of political advantage from the fact that the Labor Opposition was kept ill-informed. 
The agreement relating to the North West Cape installation was signed in 1963 by the then Minister for External Affairs and the then American Ambassador, lt was signed only a few months before the election in 1963  -  an election in which the Labor Party substantially improved its majority in this parliament through a vote on the issue of defence. That is the position. We do not propose to accept the ammendment because the position is not yet entirely satisfactory. But what did the Opposition expect at this stage of the game without there having been any discussions with the Government of the United States? Did it expect this Government to throw down the gauntlet and throw out a challenge? Is the Opposition trying to destroy the American alliance from which it has extracted so much political advantage over the years? Only members of the Opposition can answer that. The fact of the matter is that the Minister for Defence has made a statement which has been welcomed by Opposition spokesmen for being responsible, balanced and well informed. The Minister for Defence has indicated that there are some matters the honourable member for Fremantle drew attention to them - which have yet to be explored with the United States Government. The Labor Party has not had 23 years in government during which it could sit down and talk to the United States Government, but the Minister for Defence intends to take the earliest mutually convenient opportunity to explore the attitude of the United States on this matter and to make sure that the United States Government understands the Australian attitude. 
We live in a time of increasing nationalism. That does not mean that this Australian Government is "about to cut adrift from previous associations and alliances. It means an intelligent response to the Nixon doctrine and that the Australian Government intends to see that Australia has an obvious personality of its own in this part of the world which does not reflect only in the matters of foreign affairs and defence but also in many more subtle areas such as in attitudes to migration, foreign aid and the like. Australia will have a more constructive role in our region, not merely as an agent of outside powers, of erstwhile colonial powers, but with an individual Australian personality operating in the region. That is the task of this Government. So we have before us a statement by the Minister for Defence which places before the Parliament a great deal of information which has never before been presented to the Parliament indicating that the new Leader of the Opposition, unlike the previous Leader of the Opposition, now the Prime Minister, has been briefed on the functions of these installations so that he might go to his party and tell the many other people on the Opposition side of the Parliament who also do not know what these installations are all about a little bit more than we now on this side of the House were told in erstwhile days. The Minister for Defence will go to the United States and put an Australian Government point of view. We can all be assured that good relations will continue between this Government and the Government of the United States and .hat the sovereignty of Australia, which is of vital interest to the Australian people, will not remain as it is now but will be restored. That is the purpose of the statement which was made by the Minister for Defence and it is precisely for that reason that the Government rejects the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Attorney-General been drawn to criticisms directed at recent changes introduced by the Attorney-General to the divorce rules which operate pusuant to the Matrimonial Causes Act? Is there any substance in the criticism? 
The first thing I should like to do tonight is congratulate my colleague the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  on his appointment. He is the first Minister in a Commonwealth government to have that responsibility by itself. The Minister has an extremely difficult task to carry out. Of course, it would not be fair to say that we have inheritied a legacy from the previous Government. The fact is thai we have inherited a legacy from the time of the first settlement in this country in 1788, with all that has happened in the period since We have a vast task to which is attached  ;i  great deal of urgency, not only in the interest of all of those people who live in Australia but also very much in the interest of the image which Australia will project in our part of the world and in the world generally. I congratulate the Minister on his appointment. I know his interest in this subject over a very long period and his record of service to the Aborigines Advancement League in Victoria and the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. I am sure that all members of the Parliament wish him well. I congratulate the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  who I understand will have the shadow responsibility in this area for the Opposition. 
In this House. Given that we have on Our plates a problem with the Torres Strait boundary, which we take very seriously, we are fortunate to have in the House a man such as the honourable member for Kooyong who understands both sides of the question. He understands the views of the people of Papua New Guinea, particularly the people who live near the Torres Strait Islands, and he also has a sympathetic understanding of the wishes of the people who live on those Islands. I welcome the constructive statements that he made tonight. 
The aims of the Government have not been well understood. It has suffered as a result of certain restrictions which are placed on any government when it is dealing with a matter which is not entirely within its own powers but which is a matter of international negotiation and also in a federal system, a matter of negotiation between the Commonwealth and the States. The Australian Labor Party in government has been criticised unjustly and unfairly, in Queensland and elsewhere, as having aims and ambitions in this field which it does not have. We realise that there are problems and recognise that the interests of the people in the Torres Strait will be served by a just and fair settlement of all the complex questions involved. I hope to deal briefly with that matter a little later. 
The States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill, which increases to $21m the appropriation of S 14.5m made by the previous Government, is a recognition by the Commonwealth Government of the continued role of the States in the field of Aboriginal affairs. We have been criticised in various places - probably more so in my home State of Queensland than anywhere else - as being a centralised government and as wanting to take over a matters affecting Aboriginal affairs. This is not the position. The point was made by the honourable member for Kooyong that 5 per cent of Arborigines now live in urban situations. Their needs are serviced substantially by the ordinary services that operate in Australia. Most Aboriginal children will attend State schools. Aboriginal children who are Catholics may attend Catholic parish schools. Aborigines who are sick will go to State hospitals. This Bill is a substantial recognition, early in the first term of the Whitlam Labor Government, as we are increasing the amount of assistance given to the States  by  50 per cent, that there is a continuing role tor the States in the field of Aboriginal advancement. In effect, we are saying to the States: 'We have a role to play, and we are prepared to play that role. But you have a role to play also, and we will assist you to play that role by increasing the amount of assistance given by the previous Government, recognising of course that even what we are doing in this legislation is not enough.' 
The Minister, in his second reading speech, spoke about consultation with Aborigines and Islanders. This question also is a complex one. When the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs consultation was carried out much more effectively than it has been in more recent times. Conferences were held at Townsville and elsewhere, and the legitimate views of Aborigines were sought in quite an honest way. Under the Minister in the McMahon Government the Commonwealth, in its consultations with Aborigines, chose to work through people who were appointed as advisers by the State governments. In Queensland the advisers were councillors from Aboriginal settlements. They represented only a little more than one-third of the Aboriginal and Island population of the State - those Aborigines who actually lived in communities. I do not think that the present Minister or any honourable member would suggest that we have yet developed a perfect consultation system. The recent conference was attended by a group of people whom some of us knew to be interested in Aboriginal affairs or who had played some kind of leadership role. The people who attended that conference were invited, irrespective of political considerations, to try to give a broad ranging representative group of Aborigines the opportunity to tell the Commonwealth the patterns of consultations which should apply in future. I have not yet seen the results of the deliberations of that conference, but I am awaiting them with some interest. 
I make the point that, whilst we have noi yet arrived at a satisfactory situation, we have not played politics. I point out that the Minister invited  Senator Bonner  to attend this conference. That would indicate that the Government regards the issue of Aboriginal advancement as being so important that it is not prepared to play politics in this field. I was pleased that the honourable member for Kooyong supported the idea of better patterns of consultation. It is obvious that the future in this area involves an expanded role for the Commonwealth. This will not happen overnight. It is a matter of gradually expanding the Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs and involving Aborigines in the Department, particularly in the field, in making contact with Aboriginal and Island communities, in liaison and so on. The task will not be an easy one for the Minister, for the Secretary of his Department or for other members of the Department. I think that those of us who have been interested in Aboriginal welfare will agree that it is not easy to get the more vociferous Aboriginal spokesmen to work within what might be termed the Public Service structure. The system now seeks people who can go out and find out what needs to be done, and then not merely make a speech about it, send a telegram to a member of Parliament or call a public meeting, but put in writng the aims, aspirations and needs of a particular community or a particular family and convey them to the Minister or to the Department in order that the problems might be looked at and, if possible, solved. 
I pay a tribute to what was done under the previous Government. I was always a critic of what was done. I said that it was not enough. I realise that the previous Government had the problem of substantial opposition in its ranks, more particularly in the ranks of the Country Party, to Aboriginal advancement. Given those inhibitions, the previous Government started a number of programs which have been useful and which can be made even more useful. The Labor Party in government is looking at them. Anything that is good will be continued. It may be possible for us to improve some of those programs. We have been concerned, for example, that so little of the money in the Commonwealth Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises has been advanced. We would like to know why. There is obviously a great need to assist Aboriginal enterprises both for individuals and for communities, and by means of incorporation of communities. 
I should like to deal with 3 other questions - and I am sorry that the time available  10  me is so short. The first matter is, again, the question of the Torres Strait boundary. When this Government was first elected almost every Premier in Australia, irrespective of their politics, accepted the fact that the people of this country had expressed their will through the ballot box and that a Labor government bad been elected. The most notable exception to this was the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen. Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  for his own partisan political purposes, has been quite irresponsible in that before half of my colleagues had been returned for the State of Queensland and certainly before my colleague, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle),  had been returned, he was up in the Torres Straits telling people that it was the aim of the Federal Labor Government to hand the Torres Strait Islanders over to the Government of Papua New Guinea. 
I think I can fairly say that there is great dissatisfaction in Papua New Guinea at the present boundary. This boundary was imposed in the days of what might be called Queensland colonialism in 1879. But the Queensland maritime boundary that can be seen on the map has never been used to prevent the people of the Torres Straits from having access to the New Guinea coast or, indeed, the people of Papua New Guinea from fishing around the islands of the Torres Straits. If we are to have a boundary in the Torres Straits, it must be a fair boundary. Papua New Guinea is about to gain independence and we cannot impose on Papua New Guinea a colonial boundary which will be a running sore for ail time. In the future there may not be a government in Papua New Guinea as well disposed towards this country as the people who are now in government and who have a recent and continuing recollection of what Australia has tried to do in Papua New Guinea. So it is necessary that we establish a boundary in the Torres Straits between our 2 nations that will stand the test of time. lt is also necessary to have agreements between these 2 nations that will protect the rights of the people of the Torres Straits to live on their own islands, have title to their own land and retain Australian citizenship with all that that means. I do not refer only to social service and repatriation benefits. I would like to make the point that I believe these matters are dealt with too superficially. Some of these people served in the Australian Forces during the Second World War and they regard themselves as Australians no less than people who live in any other part of Australia. We should not discount all those factors and it is our responsibility to protect their interests. While we must maintain for these people such rights as 1 mentioned of retaining their citizenship and living on their islands, we must also consider the rights of the people of Papua New Guinea, given that a continuing continental shelf runs between the 2 nations, to some share in the resources of the seabed. This is a very complex question. 
The Commonwealth has not been irresponsible on this matter. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wrote to the Premier of Queensland on 15th December 1972. I shall read extracts only from this letter. The Prime Minister said, inter alia, that the Government was 'impressed by the potentialities of the question' - he was referring to the boundary - 'as a source of friction between Australia and an emerging Papua New Guinea', but was also very mindful of the rights and interests of the Torres Strait Islanders'; and was therefore proposing 'discussions ... in January between officials of the Papua New Guinea Government, your Government' - that is, the Queensland Government - 'and my Government (including the Office of Aboriginal Affairs)'. 
Through the entire period since that time, the Premier of Queensland has sought to convey  the  impression that the Commonwealth' Government now is in the real estate business and that we want to transfer the Torres Strait Islands to Papua New Guinea. I should like to make the point that if in the future there is ill will between Australia and Papua New Guinea, the people who stand to suffer most are the people who live in the Torres Strait. It is vitally important that this matter be settled not from a partisan political point of view but by quiet negotiations. I should like to praise the Prime Minister and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  for their restraint in this matter. If I may make a kindly aside at this point, 1 should say the Prime Minister rather than the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, because my colleague and friend has made a couple of passing references to the Premier of Queensland. However, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is correct in saying that the Premier of Queensland has handled this question in an irresponsible and partisan way. Let us all use our influence not to inflame the situation in the Torres Strait but to ensure that we arrive at a solution which is fair to the nation of Papua New Guinea and which protects the interests of the people of the Torres Straits. We are not going to achieve that solution if we try to make local partisan party political capital out of this issue. 
I should like to comment on the question of the Queensland settlements because this matter has been referred to in the Press in my State of Queensland. Through this Bill, the Government is assisting various enterprises on the settlements in Queensland. Again, we are not in the business of taking over the settlements in Queensland or anywhere else for the sake of acquiring more real estate for the Commonwealth. As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs mentioned in his second reading speech, this Government has appointed  Mr Justice  Woodward to examine the question of land rights in the Northern Territory in order to ascertain how in each individual situation, we can best vest these lands in the hands of the Aboriginal people who live in these communities and reserves. We would hope that, given the fact that the Commonwealth is prepared to provide money to assist in the provision of skilled personnel, governments like the Government of Queensland would play their part in transferring the title to Aboriginal reserves to the people living on them. 
May I make one other point about the Premier of Queensland. He has said that the Commonwealth Government wishes to dispossess these people and that we wish to take their land from them. But there is not one family, there is not one person, living on an island in the Torres Straits who has a title to the land on which he lives. If the Premier of Queensland is interested in the people who live in the Torres Straits, let him give them the title to the land on which they have lived from time immemorial. We will not dispute that because these people should have a title. But the title to all of those lands in the Torres Strait is vested with the Director of the Aboriginal and Island Affairs Department in Queensland. 
I had hoped to conclude my speech earlier than this, but I should like to make another point. This Bill is a step forward. It makes more money available than did the previous Government. We do not claim any particular virtue for that. We still recognise that it is not enough but more information and consultation is needed before the road ahead can be plotted. But we do see across the north of Australia - we saw this on television the night before last - what has been described as a white backlash. This Government is very conscious of the needs of other needy people in the Australian community. There is before the Parliament legislation dealing with social services. The Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  who was in the chamber a minute ago, is endeavouring to bring down a more generous Commonwealth-State housing agreement. We have patterns of assistance for children who live in isolated areas and who have particular disabilities. We have a particular obligation to the Aboriginal people of Australia because they are a dispossessed people. But we also can help them because they are the most easily identified group of underprivileged people in the Australian community, and all members of this Parliament, irrespective of their party, should support the endeavours of this Government. When in 
Opposition, we supported the then government in this area. We never criticised what it was doing except to say that it was not enough. But any of us, for local, partisan, party political gain, could stir up a white backlash. 
 I would like in the first place to congratulate the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  for bringing this important question before the Parliament. It is a matter which was considered by the House of Commons and the House of Lords some 6 years ago and on several occasions. I am happy that the Government has moved an amendment which has been Incorporated in the motion, because I think that what the amendment proposes is the logical procedure to follow. It is certainly something that we and our committee should look at very carefully. I suggest that many members might see themselves developing as television stars in the sense that their appearance on television would add something to the vote that they enjoy in their electorates. 
That is true. Indeed, other members might be fearful that the image they project would at times not win them votes. I think the basic purpose of this resolution is to look again at what can be done to bring the Parliament closer to the people. I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Bradfield for his consistent work in Parliament and to congratulate also the new Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  who is unfortunately not with us today because he is recovering after a short stay in hospital. Both these gentlemen have tried to work for the Parliament as an institution and develop the importance of this Parliament to the people of this country when all the influence of the media and other pressures in the community have been directed towards focusing attention on the Executive Government, on the Prime Minister, on the Cabinet and on things that take place at that level. We have a Prime Minister, whose leadership I am very proud to follow, who holds a Press conference regularly on Tuesday. This conference is broadcast and it is much publicised. Some of the newspapers run a section entitled "The Prime Minister's Press Conference' which gives attention to the decisions made by the Executive, decisions made by the Cabinet. 
The function of televising the Parliament ought to be to bring home to the people that, notwithstanding the importance of the Executive Government, the Cabinet and the Prime Minister, decisions can be made at that level only subject to the government of the day enjoying a majority in this place and subject to the approval of this place in many ways. I would think that if we see televising of the proceedings of this House, whether full time or on an occasional basis, as having the purpose of bringing the institution closer to the people, this will be a well motivated idea. There are of course many ways in which this can be done. One can televise the glamour activities of Parliament - the opening of Parliament, various parliamentary functions or the swearing in of members. One can imagine that proceedings could be televised when the Prime Minister or another Minister makes a very important statement - a defence statement or a foreign affairs statement- or when the Leader of the Opposition is replying or when some matter of great public interest such as what is often called an urgency motion is being debated. 
That is true. An example is the statement made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  in the Senate this week. When a matter of great interest is being debated it could be televised. On the other hand there are dangers in televising the personalities of the Parliament. Somehow as this procedure develops we have to get through to the people the importance of the backbenchers because the personalities, irrespective of what Party they lead at this or any point of time, are in those positions only because they enjoy the support of the backbenchers in their Party. 
One of the things I am concerned about, and is a reason why I incline to the idea that we should work on an occasional system, is whether we can balance the 2 matters of tha televising of national issues and the getting across of the story of and the role played by the Parliament through the constructive speeches made on both sides on the issues which come before us. As we all know, there are many occasions on which we would not choose to have Parliament televised. In the chamber at this time there are a great number of seats vacant. But mat does not mean that all the honourable members who are not in the chamber are in the billiard room, in the bar, playing squash or enjoying the comfortable surroundings of the parliamentary gardens. It probably means that most of our colleagues are in their offices attending to correspondence, attending meetings of parliamentary committees or using their time in' some other constructive way. We realise that if we sat in this chamber for every minute of the day we would not be using our time to the best advantage and most of the preparatory work for our speeches would not be done. One of the problems of television is that we would have to get this message through to the people. On occasions I have heard people in King's Hall saying, in effect: 'Good heavens! I was just in the gallery. Parliament is meeting and there are only half a dozen members in the House. Where are they?' This is one of the problems. If we were to televise Parliament we should not televise only the proceedings in this chamber but also, if we did that on an occasional basis, the parliamentary comittees at work, committees such as the Joint Committee on Public Works, the Joint Committee of Public Accounts and no doubt, on occasions* the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which is a matter to be discussed later this day. We should show the working of Parliament in total. 
The dangers in this proposal have been mentioned before. It has been said that we might be altering our Standing Orders to conform with television techniques and that we would then turn this place into an opera house rather than a house of discussion. There are, of course, other problems such as (he cost of televising proceedings and perhaps the provision of a second channel to enable this to be done without intruding on other aspects of television. I am one of those people who do not believe that the standard of television in Australia is high. I suppose it is unfair of me to say that because I see very little television but I do notice my children at home looking at all sorts of film entertainment and the like which I would not regard as being a very useful way in which to spend my time. Of course, the Parliament would be in competition with entertainment programs. I am not reflecting on any honourable members in this House when I say that there would be times when some of the more entertaining programs on television would have a much greater drawing capacity than the televising of the Parliament. These are amongst the problems which have to be looked at. 
The big problem, as I see it, is that of developing personalities because television does encourage the development of personalities. Television tends to focus on people who have the sort of skills which in earlier days made Jack Davey and Bob Dyer great radio personalities and which today make great television personalities. If televising the proceedings of this House means that we are to televise personalities only I do not think we are really helping the institution of Parliament. In supporting the approaches taken by the honourable members on both sides of the House I trust that, when this matter is considered, the televising of the Parliament will be looked at not in the light of whether this will give some political advantage to the Prime Minister or Leader of the Opposition of the time, or enable other honourable members to become television personalities in the Parliament, but at the way in which television could be intelligently and fairly used, as is the tradition of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in broadcasting, to enable this institution to be better understood by the people of Australia. They may then have brought home to them the importance of this institution in scrutinising the decisions of the executive government. One of the sad facts of life is that there are few people in the Australian community who really understand how the Parliament works. If arrangements can be made which will enable the televising of the proceedings or part of the proceedings of this House and of the Senate and, of course, of our parliamentary committees and other activities in such a way as to enhance the prestige of this institution and bring to the people of Australia a better understanding of how the Parliament works, I very enthusiastically  support  the motion. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I hope, having listened to what you have said, that I might be allowed the opportunity of commenting by way of reply on some of the matters introduced by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  although I do not intend to allow that to take me off the motion for the setting up of the joint committee. I am pleased that the Opposition supports the setting up of the joint committee in the terms that have been submitted by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Members of the Labor Party have been members of what was then the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs for the last 2 Parliaments. I pay a tribute to the Prime Minister for the part he played in bringing the Labor Party to that position. We recognise that the present Opposition when it was in government made certain changes which made this committee more a parliamentary committee and rather less a preserve of the Minister for External Affairs of the day and the Government of the day. What the Labor Party is doing, in accordance with attitudes that have been expressed over a great number of years by the Prime Minister and by other members on this side of the House, is to widen the role of this Committee in order that it might become a more important part of the Parliament. 
The significant alteration is to add the word Defence' to the title of the proposed committee so that the joint committee would consider matters of foreign affairs and defence. I do not think that anyone would disagree that these are very closely related subjects and that very often our foreign affairs posture is dictated by defence considerations. Also it follows from this that matters may be referred to the committee by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  or by resolution of either House of the Parliament and the question of resolution by either House of the Parliament is, as I said earlier, to make this committee a more effective instrument of the Parliament. It was my experience in the 6 years that I was on the previous committee that the committee looked at the matters that came before it impartially and not in any partisan way. That is to say, members of the committee did not go into meetings of the committee with their own political point of view. That is not to say that there have not been some differences of opinion. But, it is to say that inside the committee very often there have been fruitful discussions in which members of various parties have been able to explore one another's point of view. 
The significant thing about the total exercise has been that every single member of that committee recognised its importance as an institution of the Parliament and recognised that policy making was the prerogative of the government of the day, but felt too that there was a role for the committee to play within this framework in order that it might not only convey its views to the Minister from time to time under the guidelines then laid down with his approval to the Parliament, but also that it might bring about in both Houses of this Parliament a group of senators and members who were much better informed on foreign affairs matters than they would otherwise have been. The Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs has been a most valuable committee. 
The honourable member for Parramatta made some suggestions about the line that Labor Party foreign affairs attitudes were taking. He suggested that we were running in parallel with Peking and Hanoi. He suggested that we had alienated to some extent the goodwill of the United States and that we were moving towards a position in the third world. Of course, without in any way attempting to impair those associations which we have enjoyed in the past with the United States of America, with Commonwealth countries and with other nations in our region, the Labor Government is seeking to explore a wider role in the world, a role in which we would have contact with peoples and nations with which we have not previously had contact. It may well be that the Prime Minister has been enterprising and bold in some of these matters. However, time will judge the significance. I enthusiastically support the initiatives that have been made. But whatever value one places in recent developments in foreign affairs, the fact of the matter is that the committee which will be set up under this resolution is a parliamentary committee which within the guidelines laid down will be able to subject the decisions of the Government and the attitudes of the Government to critical analysis, and I am sure that only good can come out of broadening the committee in this way. 
I again congratulate the Prime Minister, who is also the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the motion which has been brought down and on the fact that the establishment of this committee will mean that we will have a more effective parliamentary committee with a broader charter. I welcome those sections of the motion which refer to the provision of necessary staff, facilities and resources. I trust that in future we can develop this parliamentary committee into being a much more effective instrument of the Parliament than it has been in the past. I support the motion. 
This is an important piece of legislation. Bills affecting the Commonwealth Electoral Act, which of course means Bills affecting the future of many members of this House, are something that we all subject to a great deal of scrutiny. But it follows in the nature of things that we all tend to look at them from our individual political point of view because, as I said, our own future is tied up with such legislation. This has been a very interesting debate. The question has been asked why the Labor Party has introduced this legislation at this time, why it has not deferred the legislation until after the next election. Of course, the facts of the matter are quite clear. I was in this Parliament in 1965 when many of the measures that are subject to alteration in this Bill were incorporated in the Act. At that time the Labor Party, then in Opposition, indicated its implacable opposition to the features that we endeavour to withdraw tonight. I refer, for example, to the 20 per cent permissible variation and other features that were then incorporated into section 19 of the Act. No person who was in the House at that time would be under any illusion that these sections of the Act were completely repugnant to the Labor Party and that the Labor Party was committed to removing them. 
The Labor Party is committed to a system of fair electoral laws and fair redistributions. The reason why these measures are being submitted to this House at this point of time is that we are very conscious of the fact that we do not have a majority in the other place - the Senate. So we wish to institute as many electoral reforms as may be possible so that if a challenge does come to us from the other place on an issue of importance we might proceed to an election or to a double dissolution, if that is necessary, and might do so on fair terms. We would be betraying the interests not only of people who voted Labor at the last election but of those people who live in the cities and who voted Liberal if we did not make every possible endeavour to carry out these electoral reforms as early as we might in the present Parliament. There is some urgency about this Bill because an electoral redistribution must be held in Western Australia, lt is, of course, desirable that a redistribution be carried out in all of the other States as well. 
I would like to compliment the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson),  on his maiden speech tonight. I find it passing strange that he should make this speech on the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2). As the  President  of the Liberal Party in Queensland for the time being he knows, as well as anybody else, how much his Party has suffered from the discrimination in Queensland of electoral boundaries which are gerrymandered in favour of the Country Party. Notwithstanding the internecine fighting between the two Government parties in Queensland - the Country Party, which is the majority party, and the Liberal Party - the  President  of the Liberal Party came into this place tonight and betrayed the interests of the Liberal Party and those people who voted Liberal at the last election in the same way as he and his fellow committee members and parliamentarians of his Party in the Queensland Parliament betrayed the interest of the people who voted Liberal in that State. 
I would like to deal with some of the questions raised by the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King).  He suggested that if there was to be some consistency about the Labor Party's approach we should do something about a situation where the number of senators from Tasmania was the same as the number of senators from the more populous States, such as New South Wales. He said that Tasmanian members should look at the position that they were putting themselves in by voting for this legislation when the numbers in that State justified only 4 seats. I am sure that all honourable members realise, and 1 am sure that the honourable member for Wimmera realises, that these are matters quite outside the legislative control of this Parliament because they would involve amendments to the Constitution. Tasmania was an original State, and as an original State it was guaranteed 5 seats. If the population of Tasmania, by plague or some other disaster, declined to 20 electors, under the Constitution it would still be entitled to 5 seats in the House of Representatives, and each of those seats would presumably have 4 electors. They certainly would with a redistribution carried out under this amendment. 
Leaving those things aside, the Australian Labor Party in government as in opposition stands for a fair Commonwealth Electoral Act and a fair redistribution. I make that point again and it cannot be made too often. This Party has suffered from electoral gerrymanders in every State except Tasmania. In Queensland since 1959 it has suffered from a cruel gerrymander. I am not denying that the boundaries in Queensland prior to 1959 were loaded in favour of the Labor Party. When I was a member of the Party, although not a member of Parliament at that time, I felt this was unfair and 1 said it was unfair. 1 am on public record as saying that. We have had a lot of experience since, but the facts of the matter are that the boundaries in Queensland have been gerrymandered against the Labor Party. 
Let me answer that. On 3rd August 1957 when the present Government was elected in Queensland- known popularly as Black Saturday - the now governing members were so surprised that they were not quite sure what to do for a while. But they came around to a system of electoral gerrymander. The then Premier, now  Sir Francis  Nicklin, invited  Sir Thomas  Playford, a man of considerable experience in the matter of electoral redistributions, to come to Queensland and give them some advice. They came up with a system whereby Queensland was carved up into 5 zones: a metropolitan zone, a southeastern zone, a western zone, a nothern zone and a provincial cities zone. We had the position where electorates in the areas thai supported the Australian Country Party contained small numbers, while the provincial cities, which overwhelmingly voted Labor, were given either one electorate or two, irrespective of the size of those cities. There were 28 State electorates in the metropolitan area. This system has been improved to some extent in the last redistribution but it still discriminates against people who live in the cities. I felt ashamed hearing the speeches from Liberal Party members. Any member of the Liberal Party who votes for a gerrymander that favours the Country Party votes against his interests, the interests of the Liberal Party and the interests of people who vote Liberal. That is the Queensland experience and it is the experience in all the other States. The tragedy of it is - the people of Australia realise this - that the Liberal Party is so lacking in leadership in matters of this kind that it will not stand up for the people who support it. It portends a sad future for the Liberal Party, because people will not vote for a party that will not get up and fight for what it believes in. 
The Liberal Party, in its platform, its policy and its expression of views on many occasions in this Parliament has stood for a principle approaching one vote one value. My Party's proposals do not take the matter that far because it recognises the disabilities suffered by people in the larger seats. There ought to be some discretionary power, some flexibility, and some trust reposed in the Commonwealth Distribution Commissioners. I hope that no-one is going to suggest that the Commonwealth Distribution Commissioners who are appointed for the redistribution will not carry out their duties as well as other Commonwealth Distribution Commissioners have in the past. I do not believe that there has ever been a Commonwealth electoral gerrymander in the same way as there has been a gerrymander in my home State of Queensland. Certainly it is important for the Labor Party, for the standing of this Government and for the people of Australia that a gerrymander should not be carried out this time. There certainly will not be a gerrymander carried out this time. 
I completely repudiate any suggestion which reflects on the integrity of the Distribution Commissioners in past redistributions or in the future. They have carried out their work honestly and well within the framework of the law as it exists. Our function as a Parliament is to see that the guidelines laid down for the Distribution Commissioners are in the interests of the people of Australia and in the interests of proper representation in this Parliament. 
Let me deal now with some of the matters that have been advanced principally by the Country Party members. We were told about the disabilities suffered by people in those giant seats. In our time we have had Labor members representing many of those giant seats. The largest electorate in this country is represented very well by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard).  Labor Party members represent the electorates of Darling and Grey. In our time we have held the seats of Kennedy and Maranoa, and doubtless we will again. We have held several of these vast country seats and we have held them well. Labor members have suffered from some of the disabilities in country seats that the Country Party members talked about. But these disabilities have narrowed in many instances, with better communications. In recent times in this Parliament we have had some discussion about improved postal facilities in country areas. I agree that they are not good enough but they are certainly a lot better than they used to be, and they are improving all the time. There are other ways of rectifying the disabilities of country members besides carrying out a system of discriminating against people because they live in cities or near cities. 
I would like to pay a tribute to the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  1 think that honourable members will recognise that we have, never had a Minister who has been so sympathetic to the needs of members in terms of facilities being made available to them in their offices and in other ways. The present Minister is presiding over this Commonwealth Electoral Bill. He has corrected many of the disabilities that honourable members have suffered. The various parties have been asked to appoint members to an amenities committee to look at some of these problems and to make recommendations to the Minister. He will give sympathetic effect to those recommendations if it is at all possible for him to do so. 
We have heard talk about the disabilities of distance in the country areas. That can be overcome by such things as charter flight rights and better communications. In an electorate such as the Northern Territory which is a bipolar electorate it might be possible to provide an office for the honourable member for the Northern Territory in Alice Springs in addition to his office in Darwin. There are many things that can be done to bring country people into closer contact with their elected representatives. Country electorates have a great advantage over city electorates in that their populations are by and large stable. The people are there. A member can make, contact with the people in his electorate. They are fairly stable communities, or certainly in relative terms they are stable communities. So there are not only disabilities associated with country seats but also advantages. 
As a member for an inner-city seat 1 would like to repudiate the idea that all the disadvantages accrue to country seats. For a start those members who represent city seats under the present system represent a greatly inflated population. At the last redistribution the Brisbane seat was about 15 per cent above the quota. By and large the inner-city seats contain the greatest number of migrants. These people do not have a vote. Many of them have not sought citizenship, either because they have not been here long enough or because: they have exercised their right not to seek Australian citizenship. Nevertheless, they have problems which cause them to come to the office of a member of Parliament and seek some rectification. They come in with their migration problems, their problems of sickness benefits or unemployment benefits and the like. They have to be serviced. The great numbers of these people are in the city seats. They are not on the electoral rolls. Many of them are not reflected in the ballot box, but they still have to be serviced and that is a disability that accrues substantially to those members who represent city electorates. 
The other point that I should like to make relates to the very question of accessibility to a member. I am not reflecting on Country Party members when I say that. I have always believed that most members of this Parliament work very hard in accordance with their own political lights and do their best for the electors of their own electorates. I agree that a member in a country electorate has to travel around from time to time to the various communities in his electorate, but if he has an efficient secretary and an efficiently conducted office much of his work can be carried out by letter, because most people would be used to writing to him. In city electorates, electors and non-electors pour into the member's office. I can say, quite frankly, that very often I spend my whole day interviewing people and at the end of the day wonder how I can get my work done. There are disabilities which accrue also to people who represent city electorates. I make the point again that these disabilities can be overcome other than through the Electoral Act. Surely it is important to all people who live in this country, wherever they might live, that we have a fair and just Electoral Act. 
The matter of a redistribution has been brought before the House as one issue. The question of votes for 18-year-olds was brought before the House quite separately. It is the 
Minister's intention, as he has stated, to bring down legislation later to tidy up administrative matters associated with the Electoral Act which is very much in need of review. The present matter is being dealt with separately because it is controversial. It is very important that we have a decision on this in both Houses of the Parliament as soon as possible so that the Government will have complete flexibility in the event that it faces a challenge in the Senate to go to the people of Australia. It should not have to do so half way through a redistribution. That would be a very unfortunate thing. The Government has been challenged to go to an election on this matter. The last election that I can recall being fought on the question of a redistribution was the one at which a Labor government won office in Victoria in the early 1950s. The overriding issue of that election was the question of a redistribution. Probably we do not present these things to the people of Australia as much as we should in our policy speeches, but the people of Australia believe that we should have a fair electoral system. 
One of the reasons why the Labor Party has done so well in South Australia and continues to do so well is that eventually, after many years of gerrymandered electorates in that State, as a result of which the people could not carry out their wishes through the ballot box by electing a government, feeling built up to the extent that Labor in South Australia attracted a vote which is among the highest in the Commonwealth. The same position is building up in Queensland. In Brisbane and in the provincial cities there is increasing resentment with the Country Party and its gerrymander in that State. The same thing is happening throughout Australia. When we go to the next election it will not be on the question of boundaries only. So many things have happened in the past. Many people who voted against the Labor Party at elections have done so because of fears that have been built up about the Labor Party, the fear that allegedly it would destroy the American alliance, sell out Australia to Peking and Moscow, and destroy all morality in the community. Honourable members know all these stories. In recent elections many people have voted other than Labor because they believed some of the things that were spread about by Labor's political opponents. Many people have voted for the Democratic Labor Party or for the Australia Party. I believe that at the next election these people will be voting in most cases for one of the major parties. If they like the Labor Party they will vote for it. The people who last time voted for the Australia Party next time will probably choose between the Liberal Party and the Labor Party. 
I do not know whether Professor Aitkin's study was right, but it suggests that many people who have voted for the DLP in recent times have been estranged Liberal voters. I believe that at the next election that section of the DLP vote will sort itself out between the Labor Party and one of the other major political parties. The Labor Party does not need this legislation to enable it to win the next election. We will win it on our record, whenever the election might be held. This Bill represents a step taken early in the Parliament for a redistribution to give Australia fair electoral laws which will ensure that throughout Australia any one man is as near as possible to being equal to any other man when he goes to the ballot box. This is  a  great principle. It is a principle for which a fight went on for well over 100 years. It is a principle which was won in this country at one time. Other principles of electoral justice have been fought for. We have property franchise and we still have anachronistic electoral systems for the Upper House in most States, but surely in the national Parliament we should be setting a lead for the States. I include my own State of Queensland in that remark. In this Bill we do just that. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Drury)  adjourned. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Is it a fact that the New Zealand Government has taken positive action aimed at controlling the prices of certain meats which will have the effect of reducing meat prices in New Zealand? Is any action on similar lines contemplated in Australia, or is similar action possible? 
The Government certainly welcomes the expressions that have been made by the honourable members who have spoken. This Committee is being set up in accordance with a decision that was reached at the Launceston Conference of the Labor Party. Of course, the Senate has had a committee working in this area for some time. I think that we all recognise that there are many problems - problems of consultation and problems of establishing programs which advantage Aboriginal people in the whole range of circumstances in which they live from one end of the Commonwealth to the other and which genuinely help them. These programs for Aboriginal advancement are integrated with programs to assist other people in needy circumstances or people who suffer from the problems of isolation and who live in rural areas a long way from the capital cities. Not only will the programs provide the amenities of life and opportunities for Aboriginal and island people of Australia but they also will create a climate in which they can live peacefully with their fellow Australians and play a positive role in furthering an Australian community. That, of course, is not said without respect for those people who live in communities of their own and wish to continue to do so. 
Like the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  I hope that this Committee does not become a political forum. My experience as a member of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs on which I have been privileged to serve since 1967 together with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant),  who is at the table, for a period of that time, and members from both sides of the House, is that when members serve on parliamentary committees they leave their partisan points of view behind them. This is not to say that we do not have our political philosophies. When we are out of the political forum we tend to look at things honestly. I see no reason why this Committee should not operate in the best traditions of parliamentary committees. 
Without reflecting on anyone, perhaps I should explain the word 'objective'. I think there are times - and I think we would be prepared to admit it - when we line up in the political arena here, voting For things that we would not cheerfully support. For example, sometimes I have felt great regret when I have been voting to disagree with the Speaker's decision on some matter when I have thought in my own mind that the  Speaker  was right. Party loyalties dictate that in this place on many of these matters we line up and be counted. But I realise that some of these matters are improving under the present Government. I am delighted with that portion of the motion which states that the Committee will have the assistance of the necessary staff facilities and resources because I find myself in this new Parliament spending most of my time walking from one committee meeting to another, sometimes wondering whether my time is being well used. 1 think this is a very important part of the provisions for this Committee. Parliamentary committees in this area - in the matter of voting rights and in the matter of land rights for the people of Yirrkala - have played a constructive role and I am sure that this Committee will play a similarly constructive role in the future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I support the Bill introduced by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  on behalf of the Government and congratulate him on the energy and enterprise which he has shown since he took up his ministerial portfolio in proceeding with the legislation now before the 
House and in other areas. The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  made a number of comments on the legislation, putting the point of view of the Australian Country Party. He, of course, agreed that for far too long there had been uncertainty and delay in this area, and he also agreed that the Government in which he was a senior Minister had carried out over a very long period of time a series of negotiations with the States on the principles enshrined in the present legislation when the former Government presented its Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. 
I do not think there can be any argument that this is not a matter which has not been before this Parliament for a considerable period of time. The honourable member also referred to the fact that there were new principles, the principles of exploiting the resources of the seabed, which are a consequence of the determination of the sovereignty that this Bill seeks to determine. I do not think there are any valid arguments in favour of going back to negotiate with the States on a matter over which unsuccessful negotiations took place over a long period of time. When the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  was in office he brought down this legislation. Arguments were put forward before us then from every State in the Commonwealth, from both sides of politics, that instead of the Commonwealth introducing legislation of this nature so that it could be challenged by the States it would be better if the States introduced their legislation and the Commonwealth, in reverse, challenged it. What a ridiculous situation that would be, in the sense that we are trying to determine a question of great importance to this nation. 
The States, of course, are obsessed with the royalties which they consider will accrue from the resources of the seabed and with other matters of financial significance to their own budgets. I can well understand their concern, and probably if I were a member of a State government I would be seriously concerned about these things as well, because we have all lived through a period in which the financial significance of the States has deteriorated while their constitutional responsibilities have remained very largely the same. But no one can reverse that trend. We are now in a position that this legislation will determine the position of sovereignty, although perhaps not immediately because I do not think there is any doubt that challenges will be made in the courts, but the result of those challenges will be that the problem of sovereignty will be determined. I suggest to the House that it is only at that point in time that meaningful discussions can take place with the States, because any discussions with the States, the ones that have taken place in the past or the ones that might take place now if this legislation were taken to a conference, would still revolve around this question of sovereignty, which can only be determined by an Act of this Parliament and with such legal challenges as may take place in the future. 
The Commonwealth has responsibilities in this matter. The States lost their international personality at the time of Federation. If Australia is to enjoy the jurisdiction over the tertorial sea and seabed and the continental shelf that almost all, if not all, other maritime nations in the world enjoy, that jurisdiction can be extended only by Commonwealth law. It cannot be extended by any law passed by a parliament of the States, which, as I said, have lost their international personality and none of them is able to accede to the conventions on the law of the sea. Of course, it is not only a question of what happens to the royalties from the resources of the seabed. There are also very important questions affecting international relations; questions affecting the maritime boundary in the Torres Strait, for example, which is a matter of some concern; questions of defence such as the provision of early warning devices on the seabed - the United States Government has sought to deal with some problems in this area - matters over which the Commonwealth has undivided responsibility and matters which are of great concern to every member of this House. 
It has been argued that we should have conferred with the States. I have tried to establish that the only meaningful consultation that can take place with the States will take place only after this matter of sovereignty is determined. At such point of time, living as we do in a federal system, I believe there is certainly an obligation on the Commonwealth to evolve patterns of meaningful cooperation with the States, because this Bill will not only introduce changes into areas at present covered by State law but it will also create some problems in areas covered by local authority by-laws which operate under the jurisdiction of the States. I am sure that those meaningful discussions will take place when this matter of sovereignty is determined. 
What exactly are the States losing from this legislation? In actual fact, if the judgments of the High Court of Australia and the opinions of eminent people in the field like Professor O'Connell are taken into account, the States have no jurisdiction beyond the low water mark. The Commonwealth is asserting its rights in this area. Previous arrangements made by the States under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act, the legislation introduced by the previous Government, still remain and are protected by this legislation. The mining code which is set out in this Bill is an inevitable consequence of the determination of sovereignty. Naturally, in the very unlikely event that sovereignty were not determined in favour of the Commonwealth, the mining code would be meaningless. But if this legislation did not introduce such a mining code, then at such time in the future as this matter of sovereignty were determined the Commonwealth would have to introduce legislation to introduce such a mining code. 
The purpose of this legislation is to bring this whole question to a conclusion in the interests not just of this Commonwealth Government as against the interests of the States but in the interests of the people of Australia, because it is only by this Commonwealth Parliament that this matter can be determined. I pay a tribute to the right honourable member for Higgins, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and other members of the Liberal Party who have fought in their own Party for the principles enshrined in their previous legislation and the principles enshrined in this Bill. I know that some of them may disagree with some aspects of the legislation. Some of their views have already been expressed in the debate. But the principle still remains that the Commonwealth is taking action in an area in which the previous Government sought to take action and in which it was unsuccessful, in part, because of opposition from the States and I think in part because of division in its own ranks. The Austraiian Labor Party is united on this matter in this Parliament. Of course, some of our State colleagues do not agree with us on this matter. We consider that this Bill correctly interprets the law as it now stands, given the developments in the law of the sea. When the determinations of the High Court of Australia are made, I would think that the States will realise that, instead of there being an attack on State rights, under the developments which then take place this legislation will actually confer a benefit on the States, because it confers a benefit on all the people of Australia. For that reason I support the Bill. 
-The speech made by the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  the shadow Minister for Defence, was extremely interesting from a number of points of view. He started by saying that the Opposition supports the Bill. Then he launched an attack on the Labor Government for its entire defence policy, particularly in relation to manpower and equipment. I found his speech interesting because one does not have to be very old to recall the parlous state of Australia's defence forces in 1963, at the time of confrontation between Indonesia and Malaysia, and the situation that was arrived at after 14 years of Liberal-Country Party rule. The Labor Party in government does not pretend that it can sort out the problems of Australia 's defence forces in a very short space of time. It will take quite a number of years to overcome the effects of the policies of the previous Government and its neglect of equipment, accommodation and decent working conditions for our armed forces, together with proper pay scales and a decent defence forces retirement benefits scheme. But that is the task to which the Government has set itself and the honourable member for Barker has correctly predicted that some of these aims will show forth in the Budget when it is introduced tonight. 
I remind the honourable member for Barker that manpower limits in the Royal Australian Air Force and Royal Australian Navy were set by the Gorton Government so that limits on the armed forces are not new in Australia. The new proposals of the Government will be the subject of statements to be made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  in this session. The honourable member referred to the motivation of the Labor Government in promising better conditions for the armed forces. We could well consider what would have happened if the Liberal-Country Party Government had continued in office and was in office now. The stories which the honourable member is putting before us tonight are symptomatic of the previous Government's attitude to the armed forces. The honourable member made it quite obvious that with the present satisfactory recruiting rate this legislation would not have been introduced by the previous Government. That Government would not have given permanent servicemen these improved conditions because it would have had all the recruits that it needed. The recruiting position is actually better than the honourable member for Barker suggested. The number of people who are being declined is actually greater because a much higher standard of recruit is offering at this time. The previous Government would not be improving the conditions of the armed forces because it would have continued national service. It would have taken young people away from industry, from rural pursuits and from studies if they were not full-time students in order that it might avoid its responsibility to improve the conditions of people in the permanent armed forces. 
The honourable member for Barker made no mention of the improved pay scales. I venture to say that under the previous Government that improvement would not have happened. One recalls that the report of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation, which was chaired by the previous honourable member for Latrobe and of which the  Deputy Chairman  was the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who is now the Treasurer, was brought down last year but that it was not accepted by the previous Government. We have been treated to the story of the fate of the armed forces under the Labor Government. One can only speculate as to their fate if a Liberal-Country Party Government had continued in office. I think that one can only judge the previous Government by its record. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in the Australian Labor Party policy speech, stated: 
The defence forces must be shown to be as necessary, and their conditions as attractive, as any other pursuit in the community. The way to attract and retain regular soldiers in peacetime is to guarantee that they and their dependants will be and after discharge will remain, on a par with civilians of the same age. Defence pay and allowances will be automatically adjusted each year to preserve their purchasing power. The report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Committee, on which our shadow Minister for Defence and Treasurer served, will be adopted without equivocation or delay; those who have greater benefits under existing legislation will retain those benefits. We will appoint a military ombudsman. We will pay a $1,000 bonus to any serviceman accepted for reengagement. Members of the services should be given War Service Homes, repatriation health benefits, civilian rehabilitation training, scholarships for their children and generous retirement and resettlement allowances. 
-Yes, that has all been done. I point out that this measure which has come on for debate and which has been brought down by the Government is the first item of business of the current session. That indicates the importance which the government attaches to keeping the promise made to. the defence forces of Australia in the policy speech which I have just read. All members of the regular forces, including members of the Citizen Military Forces and reserves, on continuous full-time service who are honourably discharged after 3 years continuous service- or earlier if they are discharged on medical grounds-now will be entitled to postdischarge vocational training, re-establishment loans so that they might be properly reestablished in civilian life, rehabilitation treatment and training for disabled ex-servicemen without a means test and repatriation benefits. All members of the regular forces including CMF and reserves on continuous full-time service who serve beyond 3 years will be entitled to war service homes benefit while continuing in the service and re-engagement bounty for other rank members of the regular forces. 
The Labor Government believes that those fine Australians who choose to serve this nation through a service career should be treated no less generously than were national servicemen who were given no choice by the previous Government. The date 2 December 1972 was a watershed in the history of the defence forces of this nation. Prior to that time we were told by the Opposition that as national service would be abolished under a Labor Government there would be insufficient recruits for the Australian Regular Army. One can remember these things being said by honourable members opposite a year ago to this day. Of course now we have the shadow Minister for Defence talking about the fact that the Government has the luxury of more recruits offering for the Australian Regular Army than are actually needed. The number of recruits offering has exceeded the Government's best expectations and this is at a time of near full employment. We are able to select the best of the young men and women available with all that this means to the Army and the quality of its serving personnel and the fact that it no longer has within its numbers those national servicemen who did not choose to serve, is, of course, another factor which will improve its morale and standard of service. 
The Government has appointed an inquiry into the CMF and while we anticipate that many benefits will follow that inquiry it will be some time before the CMF recovers from the effect of national service. I think that we all recall the earlier days when serving in the CMF was an honoured occupation and many fine men chose to serve as officers and as other ranks in that body. National service had an extremely harmful effect on the CMF in the sense that many young men who did not wish to have their lives interrupted by undertaking national service opted to go into the CMF. The CMF contained a large number of young people who were not really interested in the CMF but were there to avoid the possibility of the national service ballot. This Government does not pretend that these disabilities can be overcome in a day, in a year or in a short term. But they will be overcome in the long term. The men who now join the CMF again now do so from a desire to serve their country and not to evade national service. 
I have referred to the new pay scales introduced by this Government and, as the Minister for Defence who is at the table has correctly said, in this legislation- and this will be reflected in the Budget that comes down this evening- all of the commitments made to the serving forces of this country will have been carried out by the Labor Government. I would like to take the opportunity of paying a tribute to the Minister for Defence for the vigorous way in which he has given leadership to the defence forces of this country. In the comparatively short period of time that he has been the minister he has brought to his duties a capacity for hard work, a clear understanding of the defence problems of this nation, a sympathy for serving personnel and an understanding of the problems of our defence forces. As a result of this the defence forces of this country are about to make very great progress under the Labor Government. 
We followed the comments that were made by the honourable member for Barker, the shadow Minister for Defence, who was the previous  speaker,  about the results of the last election. We do not do these things for political purposes. But I believe that when the armed forces of this country go to the polls again they will realise that they have been well served by a Labor Government. 
The Australian Government has a clear mandate to change the way of life of the Aboriginal people of Australia. In the policy speeches of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  when he was the Leader of the Opposition, at both the 1969 and 1972 elections, Aboriginal affairs played a very important part. This legislation is a recognition that the Commonwealth can benefit very greatly by co-operating with the States. It seeks the co-operation of the Australian States in the transfer of certain public servants in the policy and administrative areas of Aboriginal affairs. I think we all appreciate that the Commonwealth has unrestricted power in the Northern Territory but it shares power with the States elsewhere. The road ahead in Aboriginal affairs is not a simple one. The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  and the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  have spoken about the complexities of Aboriginal affairs as they see them. The road ahead involves co-operation with the States and liaison with the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islands people of Australia. Of course, we all realise that whilst the Torres Strait Islanders are Aborigines within the strict interpretation of the word, they are proud to retain their own identity as Islanders. 
It would be easy for the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant),  who brings to this portfolio a great deal of enthusiasm and sincerity, to go ahead and chart out policies to benefit the Aboriginal people. But unfortunately it is not as simple as that. Perhaps I should withdraw the word 'unfortunately'. The facts of life indicate that it is not as simple as that because we are committed to liaising with these people in working out future policies. A great deal of energy at this point in time is being devoted to working out this process. Liaison with the Aboriginal people was never carried out very effectively under the previous Government. When the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was, under the Prime Minister, MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs, some conferences took place. When  Mr Howson,  the former honourable member for Casey, was the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, government policy was to liaise with the organisations set up in each State. In my own State of Queensland, for example, this meant the liaison committee assisting the State Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. It represents communities only, which means only approximately one-third of the Aboriginal population of Queensland. 
The honourable member for Herbert, in criticising the proposal for the establishment of a national Aborigines consultative council, did not take into account what has actually happened. Earlier in the year the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs brought together a representative group of people who had been involved in Aboriginal affairs He asked them to recommend the manner in which Aborigines could be consulted in the future. They suggested to him in 2 conferences in Canberra, and in a number of regional conferences, that an elected national Aborigines consultative council be set up. Australia is a large nation. This matter has involved a great number of discussions and I am told that more than 2,000 Aborigines have attended regional conferences to discuss it. This matter has yet to come back to the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party's Aboriginal Affairs Committee for further discussion with the Minister. To do this job properly and really to evolve patterns of consultation with the Aboriginal people, is not something which can be hurried because we are not in the business of pushing around the Aboriginal people of Australia. But a lot of things have happened. There has been a great expansion in the Department, which was previously the Office of Aboriginal Affairs. It is now the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. There is a much more vigorous Commonwealth role. The Government has sought to encourage members of this House to take a greater interest in Aboriginal affairs by appointing by resolution the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. This of course is an all-party committee and as  Chairman  of that Committee I acknowledge the very willing co-operation that we receive from Opposition members of this House as well as the part played by honourable members on the Government side. All of these things have served their own useful purposes. But it is impossible for any Australian Government to solve the problems without the cooperation of the Aboriginal people and without the co-operation of the States. 
The word 'centralist' has been thrown into this debate by the honourable member for the Northern Territory. This Government recognises that it cannot solve problems in Aboriginal affairs without co-operation with the States. Indeed, legislation which will be introduced to follow the Budget will give a very substantially increased amount of assistance to the States for Aboriginal advancement. The preceding Budget provided $22m for this purpose. The proposed expenditure under the legislation to be introduced later this year will provide $31,750,000- an additional $9m for the States for their own programs. Does this show an attitude of a Commonwealth Government that is trying to exclude the States from the field? This is not the intention of the Australian Government at all. It is the intention of the Australian Government to develop a healthy co-operation with the States. The expenditure for this year for Aboriginal advancement is: Education, $4,600,000; health $9,il 34,000; social security and welfare, $3,230,000; housing and amenities, $14,786,000 - a total of $31,750,000. Of course that expenditure is quite outside the amount that the Commonwealth will spend on its own behalf. That money comes out of an expenditure from the Aboriginal Affairs Trust Account for the year 1973-74 of $73.5m. It is a massive amount of money. It is the function of the Commonwealth Government in co-operation with the States to see that it is wisely spent. 
I want to pay a tribute to the co-operation which we receive from the State Governments. Firstly, I should like to say that it is not the purpose of the Commonwealth Government to set up a Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs which is similar to the department which exists, for example, in Queensland at present. In its day that department managed the affairs of Aborigines from the cradle to the grave. I know that some changes have taken place in the Queensland legislation. I should like to see all restrictive legislation removed. But we see the Commonwealth as taking over the administrative and policy functions and the States as playing their role in servicing the Aboriginal people of Australia in State schools and hospitals and the like in the same way as they treat other people in the community. I think we all acknowledge the co-operation with the States in a whole range of programs. 
I cite an example from Queensland. The Commonwealth Department of Labour has a scheme for pre-employment training. Through the Commonwealth Employment Service it selects and offers pre-employment training to young Aborigines who might be short on skills but show that they are not afraid to work. These young people are offered the opportunity to go to technical college or elsewhere to acquire skills which they might use to improve their income. We recently had a course of about 20 young men from northern Queensland who attended the Eagle Farm Technical 
College at Brisbane to learn basic welding. There is quite a demand for people who can weld in garages and in repairing agricultural machinery and the like. The scheme is a useful exercise in Commonwealth-State co-operation. The Commonwealth Department of Labour, through the Commonwealth Employment Service, locates the trainees. The Queensland Department of Education makes available places in its technical colleges. The Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs arranges accommodation for the young people at the Bulimba Hostel. Of course the Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs monitors the program and provides the money. So we see in the future an increasing level of co-operation with the States. Anyone who suggests that we are in the business of excluding the States is being quite unreal, when so many basic services such as health, education, housing and the like in our community are financed through State Governments. 
There is a need for a Commonwealth presence on a regional basis throughout Australia. The steps are now being taken to establish a Commonwealth regional presence. The honourable member for Griffith who spoke earlier mentioned that applications had been called for the provision of Commonwealth offices in Brisbane, associated with the hostel at Hill End but other applications had been called for Commonwealth offices at Cairns, Townsville, Rockhampton and Brisbane, and of course in other States as well. A Commonwealth presence is needed to assess priorities; to liaise with State government departments and Commonwealth government departments to co-ordinate their activities; to lead and to assist Aboriginal organisations that might be seeking financial assistance, initially perhaps, to prepare a submission if people in the organisation have an idea that deserves support, and then to be able to attend meetings to counsel people on how to spend money and how wisely to administer public money if it is entrusted to their care. So it is necessary for us to establish a Commonwealth presence. 
Given the fact that it is the objective of the Commonwealth to avoid unnecessary duplication by having 2 different administrative functions in Aboriginal affairs, it is the policy of this Government to arrange with the States to transfer public servants in that area. We have not always agreed with the attitude of the States in Aboriginal affairs and we do not agree with all of them at the moment. In fact I venture to say that probably if we went to any State we could see some aspect of Aboriginal affairs that we think perhaps we could handle better than the State. On the other hand, of course, it may well be, as I think we would all acknowledge, that in some areas we have learned a lot from the States. The States have many officers of talent and ability. The purpose of this legislation is to enable them to transfer to Commonwealth employment and to protect their employment by guaranteeing them remuneration in no way less than they receive today, but to protect them insofar as superannuation may be concerned and in other entitlements. In other words the purpose of this legislation is to enable us to bring into Commonwealth employment State government officers who have already contributed in the field of Aboriginal affairs and who have something to contribute in the future within the areas of Commonwealth administration. 
I think that we would all agree that it is a very worthwhile piece of legislation. I mentioned the organisations that the Commonwealth helps. Speakers on the other side of the chamber mentioned a number of programs that had been assisted by the Commonwealth. The honourable member for the Northern Territory mentioned turtle farming - a project that started off as a pilot scheme under the previous Government and has now arrived at the stage where massive capital investment is necessary if what was a pilot scheme is to be expanded into a viable industry. Naturally any Australian government will look at the project carefully and sympathetically when it is called on to spend large amounts of public money, to ensure that the industry is economically sound and that it is technologically sound. When I say economically sound I do not necessarily mean that it should be profitable in the sense that some Australian industries which pay large interest rates are profitable. But surely we ought to be encouraging anything that enables Aborigines to be given a better life than living on unemployment benefits or on subsistence agriculture or fishing. 
The road ahead is not an easy one. The honourable member for Griffith has given some attention to the hostel at Hill End. He suggested that it is an example of indecision on the part of the Australian Government. We need many more hostels like Hill End. When the Commonwealth has an office in Brisbane, I hope that it will be possible to work out priorities for the acquisition of hostels to suit the range of needs of Aboriginal people. What happened with respect to Hill End is very simple to explain. The Baptist Church, in its wisdom, decided to build a new theological college at Brookfield or Kenmore and offered the building to OPAL - the One People for Australia League - as an Aboriginal hostel if OPAL could find the money. The State Government put the proposal to the Commonwealth Government without telling it that it was intended to vest the hostel in the hands of OPAL and suggested, if my memory serves me correctly, that about 90 people could be accommodated there. The initiative was taken by the State Government. 
The Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs, which is not sympathetic towards large hostels because they are not easy to run, looked at this proposal with a somewhat sceptical eye. Because it was in such a desirable locality and because it was so handy to town, a technical college, a university and schools, I took the view that it was a suitable site for a students hostel and suggested to the Minister that he acquire it for that purpose. The Minister came to Brisbane at Easter and inspected the hostel. The honourable member for Griffith was absent at the time, but I recall telling him several days later that an inspection had been made of the hostel in the electorate of Griffith. The hostel was acquired with that purpose in mind. A little later the Government looked at the whole question of vesting hostels because it was obvious that a large number of hostels had to be acquired. In the past, grants had been made to organisations to acquire properties. In other words, the Commonwealth acquired a valuable piece of property and handed it over to a private organisation. So the Minister, in his wisdom, set up an organisation called Aboriginal Hostels Ltd in which the ownership of Aboriginal hostels acquired by the Commonwealth will be vested and which will have the authority to administer those hostels and if necessary or if it is thought desirable lease them to an appropriate organisation or in other ways manage them. 
The funny thing about hostels for students is that one connects students with programs only at the start of a year. The hostel will become available much earlier than that. In point of fact it is probably being transferred to the Commonwealth somewhere about now. The theological college of the Baptist Church is shifting out. Should the hostel at Hill End be left empty? Aboriginal Hostels Ltd discussed this problem and decided, because the demand by students is not there at the moment and because there is a demand for accommodation by young working girls, that the hostel should be used for the accommodation of these girls. I put it to the honourable member for Griffith that the people of Hill End are not concerned so much with whether they are school girls of 15, 16 or 17 years of age or workers of 17, 18 or 19 years of age as with the fact that the hostel is well run and is playing a positive role. An iron clad guarantee has been given in that respect. 
I am prepared to state in the Parliament, as I have stated elsewhere, that I support the decision which has been made by Aboriginal Hostels Ltd not to leave the hostel empty but to accommodate young working people in it at the present time. There will be a need for other hostels, but it is not wise to hurry too much into such a situation. A wrong decision which is made at a place like Hill End could bring the Commonwealth under a great deal of fire, especially if the hostel is not properly managed. The important thing is that it should be. The people of Hill End have been given an absolute guarantee by the Minister that it will be. That guarantee stands. 
This legislation is designed to effect the transfer of State public servants to the Commonwealth Public Service. They will make a useful contribution in the future in a joint enterprise by the Commonwealth and the States to a bettering of the way of life of the Aboriginal people of Australia. 
I rise to speak on the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs very conscious of the fact that we have seen a transfer of ministerial responsibility in this area during the past day. The first thing I should like to do is to pay a tribute to the honourable Gordon Bryant, now Minister for the Australian Capital Territory, for the leadership which he has given to this Department during the period of this Government and, indeed, for the leadership which he has given to the whole Aboriginal advancement movement for a great number of years. It is one of those unfortunate things that when ministerial responsibilities are changed, the media ascribe various motives to the Prime 
Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or suggest various reasons why such a transfer should have been made. The honourable member for Wills, of course, leaves a responsibility of enormous complexity to go to another difficult responsibility of taking care of the needs of the people who reside within our national capital. I can only say that if he is able to bring to his new responsibilities the same energy and devotion that he brought to his previous responsibilities, the people of the Australian Capital Territory will be well served. 
Because we are dealing with the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, I should like to repudiate some of the suggestions which have been made that in some way all is not well in Aboriginal affairs in this country because of the way in which public money is being expended. I know that this is a matter which has been of great concern to the Minister, as indeed I am sure it was to previous Ministers, and to the various departments concerned, and that it will remain as a matter of great concern to the Australian Labor Party committee dealing with this subject. In the present Budget, the proposed expenditure on Aboriginal affairs has been increased to $117m, almost double the expenditure provided for under the previous Budget. Of that amount, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs has been allocated by far the largest amount. Appropriation Bill (No. 1) provides for almost $4m for salaries, Sl.Sm for administrative expenses, 12m in round figures for other services and $70m for Aboriginal advancement, a precise total of $87,826,000. Of this amount, the major increases are in salaries - an increase of $2. 5m - and an increase for Aboriginal advancement of $37.5m, including an increase in payment to the States of $10m. 
The Department of Aboriginal Affairs plays a unique role in that it not only accepts certain direct responsibilities in Aboriginal affairs but also because it is the catalyst and the agent whereby co-ordination is given effect to with other government departments and arrangements are made to assist the States in their own programs. It therefore has within its estimates substantial amounts of money for payment to the States and, in the current year under the proposals now before us $31,750,000 will be paid to the States. To make up the difference in expenditure on Aboriginal affairs to the figure of $117m which I previously mentioned there are of course amounts which have been appropriated for the Department of the Northern Territory, the Australian Capital Territory, the Departments of Education, Labour and Health and for the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies under the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I am not canvassing any of those other departments but merely refer to them in passing. Almost $32m of the amount provided for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs goes to the States to support them in programs which they have prepared in consultation with the Commonwealth and over which they exert managerial control. 
I should like to repudiate the suggestions which have been canvassed in the last couple of days that there has been any great looseness in the expenditure of public money on Aboriginal affairs, while at the same time I should like to put to the Committee an appeal for some tolerance. We are in the business, as indeed the previous Government was in the business, of redressing the disabilities suffered by the Aboriginal people of this country by virtue of its occupation by our predecessors some 180 years ago. This cannot be done in any cheap way. If the problems of the Aboriginal and Island people are not solved in the present generation, they will be infinitely more expensive for the next generation to solve, given the now fast increasing Aboriginal population. So, it is not only for humanitarian reasons that we should be prepared to spend money of this order but for very practical reasons as well. 
I put it to honourable members that in some of the programs which are being carried out through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, it is the policy of this Government, as it was the policy of the previous Government, to assist Aboriginal organisations without looking over their shoulders too much. In other words, if we are to give Aboriginal people real responsibility in meeting the needs of their own people, we have taken the view that organisations should be assisted and, provided that they make decisions honestly, we should allow them to make decisions in accordance with the priorities that they themselves determine. Given the long distances involved in this country and the sparse population and, in many cases, the sparse non-Aboriginal population in areas where the Aboriginal need might be greatest, it follows that from time to time anomalies will creep in. I put it to the House that there should be some tolerance towards the Government on this matter of assisting Aboriginal organisations in this way. It is not possible to apply precisely the same criteria as we might if for example we were spending through one of our own government departments. 
The Government is very keen to establish a regional Commonwealth presence in as many places throughout the Commonwealth as might be possible. Money for this purpose is provided in the estimates. Of course, money is not the only solution to the problem; it is also very much a case of getting the right men and women to staff the positions which might be created. It is a slow process. I know that the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs found the slow process of building up a staff throughout the nation a frustrating one. Until such Commonwealth regional presence is established to co-ordinate and develop priorities and to co-ordinate not only with Aboriginal organisations but also with State and other Commonwealth departments working in the various areas, the task of administering a program of the kind we have is a difficult one. 
The increased expenditure proposed recognises a need increasingly to assist the States. I should like to say that in the course of moving around this country and looking at Aboriginal affairs, one is impressed with some of the good work being done in this co-operative effort between the Commonwealth and the States. In recent times - I know that the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  is interested in this area - we have looked at the program being conducted through the New South Wales Housing Commission to provide homes for Aborigines. I am not one of those people who subscribe to the view that the Commonwealth inevitably does things better than does anyone else. I think that there is a lot to be said for building homes for Aborigines through an instrumentality that caters for the housing needs of the whole community. I think many of these programs have been done very well to the great advantage of the Aboriginal people and of course in the interests of all the people of Australia. I believe that not only to justify the expenditure of this money but also to justify the total program, we need to spell out and debate in this Parliament its role in Aboriginal affairs. 
It seems to me that we should embark on a program of positive discrimination in favour of Aborigines in this generation in order that they may have equality in the next generation. I believe that such a program can be sold to the Australian people, that it is a reasonable and fair program for us to be putting forward, and that we members of this Parliament, irrespective of our political differences, should unite to convince the Australian people as a whole that it is necessary to spend money at this time, and even more in the future, to bring about positive discrimination in this generation in order that there may be equality of opportunity in the next. 
It is a great privilege to take part in a debate on the second reading of the Schools Commission Bill because the proposed Schools Commission is the hope of Australian education in the years ahead. The Budget provided for an increase of over 90 per cent in Commonwealth funding for education, and of course that 90 per cent increase takes into account only 6 months of operation of the proposed Australian Schools Commission and similar programs. In other words, there is a vastly increased Australian commitment to education now and in the future. I do not know whether  Sir Robert  Menzies is listening to this debate but I think it should be pointed out to honourable members opposite that the Schools Commission will set up for schools the same type of authority that their own Government set up to serve the needs of universities and, later, colleges of advanced education. In both of those cases the commissions set up by the former Government have served Australian education well. 
An interjection has been made about the difference in numbers. This is, of course, one of the matters of great concern to the Government because the previous Government was always concerned with the minority groups and never concerned with the great numbers. I thank the honourable member for his interjection. 
The 1972 policy speech of the Labor Party on the subject of education stated: 
We will establish an Australian Schools Commission to examine and determine the needs of students in government and non-government primary, secondary and technical schools. 
It goes on to say that it follows the pattern set by  Sir Robert  Menzies when he wrote in December 1956 to  Sir Keith  Murray and outlined that an Australian Labor Party Government would give a great priority - the utmost priority - to this proposal. On 12 December 1972, before the Cabinet had been elected, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who then had the responsibility, appointed an Interim Committee for an Australian Schools Commission. I think that we would all agree that that Interim Committee did a remarkably good job in the time allotted to it. I think it must be a matter of great satisfaction to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazely),  who is sitting at the table, to see an education policy for which they worked extremely hard not only in public in more recent times but also, in earlier days, inside the Labor Party itself. It is good to see that policy now being developed in the way that it is being developed. 
The Bill proposes an Australian Schools Commission to consist of not fewer than 5 and not more than 12 members, including the  chairman,  The 4 full time members are to be appointed for 7 years and the part time members for 3 years. The functions of the Commission are set out in clause 13 which is a lengthy portion of the Bill. Some of the questions raised by honourable members opposite would, of course, be answered if they paid more attention to clause 13 which sets out the guidelines for the Australian Schools Commission. I would like to quote from the Minister's second reading speech. He said: 
Our approach is to establish commissions of expert advisers rather than a vast centralised administrative machine. 
He went on to say: 
We therefore seek in this legislation to set up an efficient impartial body to examine, identify and determine needs of students in government and nongovernment schools at the primary and secondary levels in Australia. 
Further on he said: 
The States will retain responsibility for administering their own educational programs but will have available to them greatly increased funds for the purpose. 
Again the Minister's second reading speech answers many of the arguments advanced on the other side of the House. I do not think that any of us would pretend that given the time factor the proposals or the categorisations of the Karmel Committee were perfect. I think we all would agree that the Committee performed a remarkable task in bringing down the recommendations given the fact that the Labor Government wished to include a massive increased commitment to education in the 1973 Budget. The Minister has pointed out that there were misunderstandings. Some schools did not submit their real position because they misunderstood the documents or because of other reasons. It has been clearly made known to them that they have the right of appeal and many schools have exercised such a right of appeal and many of the appeals have been upheld. 
Even the proposed Schools Commission has a restricted time in which to bring down a submission. The time specified is early in 1975 so that its recommendations can be considered for inclusion in the Budget of that year. Of course, there is a need to set up a structure at State level which I understand will not be an administrative structure but rather will recommend priorities and also set up the building priorities sub-committee for independ ent schools and the other machinery envisaged. It is proposed that these programs will begin in January 1974. So even now there is a great urgency for the Parliament to pass this legislation so that these programs might be under way as soon as possible. 
I very much support the fact that provision for a rigid structure for a board, or whatever other arrangement might be set up at State level, is not written into this legislation. I am keen to leave the utmost flexibility in the hands of the Minister. While I am happy about the placing on the board at State level of the State Director of Education and the Director of Catholic Education I feel, from information available to me and to my colleagues, that there is need for a much broader representation than that. The point was made by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  who spoke earlier in this debate, that representatives of organisations in themselves may not be a good thing. I support that idea. If rigid structures are laid down in this legislation they may be counter-productive. 
Many of the amendments proposed by the Opposition seek to develop a piece of legislation which would be much more rigid than the legislation proposed by the Government. Much of the hope in what is to be achieved, of course, is vested in the discretion of the Australian Minister for Education. The report of the Karmel Committee proposes that the Minister should appoint certain people at State level in consultation with the State Minister. I am delighted with the effect that the report of the Karmel Committee has had on the State Education Department in Queensland. As  Chairman  of the Migrant Task Force in Queensland I have in recent times had an opportunity to take evidence from officials of the State Department of Education. I have been tremendously impressed with the quality of the people now administering education in Queensland. I know that the proposal for the Australian Schools Commission to give increased support for State education has given great impetus to the Queensland Department of Education to rethink its priorities in the knowledge that money will be available for areas which previously were starved of support. One thinks immediately of the rebuilding of old schools and the provision of facilities for children with special needs. When one looks at clause 13 of the Bill one realises that the Schools Commission is directed to pay particular attention to the needs of disadvantaged children, children with special needs, migrant children, Aboriginal children and other areas of education such as physical education. 
As I mentioned, I was associated recently with the Migrant Task Force in Queensland and I have been tremendously impressed with the way in which teachers, both in the State system and in the Catholic system of education, have been teaching migrant children, very often in what are very difficult circumstances. I think we all have to admire teachers who teach migrant children whose knowledge of English is very modest, who teach in overcrowded class rooms with inadequate teaching material and very often in temporary class rooms built under schools. I am pleased to see that all these matters are taken into account in this Bill to establish the Commission. The ball is now back in the court of the States to take up the challenge and to work out priorities within their own systems of education to ensure that every child within state schools receives the maximum benefit. 
I now refer to the position in Queensland. I do not wish to incorporate a great amount of detail in Hansard, but the total grants for Queensland schools this year amount to $26,340,000 against $10,616,000 in 1972-73. That is an increase of the order of $16m - well over 100 per cent. This amount of money which is set out in the Budget documents does not include the increased assistance for universities and colleges of advanced education, for pre-schools and the like. The Schools Commission makes a massive increased commitment to the needs of independent schools. 
It has been argued that the Karmel report has a sectarian flow-on. I am very disappointed to hear this suggestion because the same criteria were used to assess the needs of all independent schools, irrespective of the denomination to which they were attached or whether they were attached to any denomination at all. So I think I would deal with the needs of independent schools when I deal with Catholic non-systemic schools. But those people who argue that the report has in some way discriminated against Anglican schools, for example, fail to take into account that the Catholic education system has sought to provide education for every Catholic child in a way which no other major denomination in this country has sought. I think the Catholic system should be given credit for doing what it has done under great difficulties in the past. The Karmel Committee recognised the needs of these schools. 
There are distinctive needs in systematic schools and non-systemic schools. I make the point to the Minister that when this legislation has been passed and the Schools Commission is established it will be very important that officers of his Department or of the Commission go to the States, sit down and talk to the people involved in administering the Catholic systemic schools and, in particular, to explain some of the proposed administrative arrangements. We are approaching the end of one school year and the beginning of another and some of our proposals and what our requirements will be are not so well understood as they might be. I do not think anyone should expect dramatic improvements in Catholic systemic schools in the year immediately ahead. There is a substantial increase of expenditure for these schools, but much of the funds will be eaten up by salary increases. In Queensland in January of this year teachers in Catholic primary schools were paid 90 per cent of the State award rate and, naturally, they are keen to improve their position. But while one can expect no dramatic improvement in 1974 - and I imagine the same thing may apply to State schools - certainly there are not- 
They will not go back. They will be in a position where they can advance their position and a large increase in the amount of money to be made available in 1975 should ensure real improvements indeed. I have had put to me a question as to whether the recurrent grants are going to be used to provide remedial teachers in the Catholic systemic system in perhaps 6 to 7 centres in Queensland because the State Department of Education which previously accepted the responsibility in this field is no longer able to accept the responsibility. There are many questions of this kind yet to be negotiated. II am sure they will be negotiated when the legislation has passed through the Parliament. 
There are, of course, distinctive differences in the needs of non-systemic schools. I accept the fact - I think we all do - that if we divide schools into categories, it might ensure that all schools whose needs are greater than others will receive increased assistance commensurate with their needs, but there are problems of marrying Government funding with personal initiative and the problems are highly complex. I have been concerned that in cases which have been brought to my attention categorisation can operate to lower the standards of schools. I have one particular school in mind. I know that after it was classified the number of teachers at that school was reduced and the school then sought reclassification with a view to bringing about a higher level of assistance. As I have been talking about the Catholic nonsystemic schools may I make the point that the school to which I referred was not a Catholic school. Nevertheless, what I have said poses problems. 
I think that critics of the Karmel Committee report may say that perhaps one would expect a much greater degree of sophistication in assessing the needs of schools when the Schools Committee has much more time than the Interim Commission had available to it to look at the question of needs. There are of course some problems concerning building programs. The independent schools at the present time are already building or proposing to build new additions onto present structures or to build new schools whichever are the highest priorities. I understand that although some of these schools may be able to receive assistance from what has been known as the Dougherty program, they will not be able to receive assistance under the Karmel scheme which will take effect only from the date of the proclamation of this Bill. I ask the Minister to look sympathetically into this matter to see what can be done because one of the problems of Government that evolve with new programs which are designed to meet new needs is that very often the government is confronted with the fact that a school is already undertaking what is its highest priority and, because of the legislative program, the Government may not be able to assist with that priority in the way that we would wish. I can only say that I take great heart from what the Minister has said. It shows that he recognises, probably more than any other person in this House, the need for flexibility. It is very easy for people to lay down desirable guidelines, but the needs of schools vary so much from place to place. 
I represent an inner city electorate. Many of the schools in my area have comparatively small playgrounds or no playgrounds at all. In some cases schools which serve a need because of the strategic location of the school have been obliged to acquire adjacent land at very high cost. Some have been obliged to acquire land for playgrounds in the outer suburbs. This involves transport and the like. Yet very often these inner city schools cater for children who come from the low income suburbs. I do not think that people can generalise in many' of these areas. I trust that the Schools Commission will carry out the wishes of the Minister to develop a program not only to assist schools and pupils in accordance with their needs but also to do this with the greatest possible flexibility. 
As was pointed out by a member of the Opposition by way of interjection, the number of schools is very great and the range of needs is very great. As always when new schemes are being put forward, there are some fears. I noted a statement of the Catholic bishops in which they expressed the view, amongst other things, that there should be some Government assistance given to the education of every child. I have some sympathy for that argument. I know, of course, that the program being put forward under the Schools Commission legislation is by no means the only program which this Government advances for the education of Australian children. This Government inherited certain educational structures but this year, under the guidance of the present Minister for Education, we have had measures aimed at assistance in the education of isolated children, and a very high proportion of those children, by the very nature of things, attend Catholic schools. We are to have legislation to come into effect next year which will assist disadvantaged children for the first time and we await legislation on pre-schools and teacher training. 
The Commonwealth Government is making a contribution towards assisting every Australian child. It has been suggested that because some schools are losing their assistance under the proposals of the Karmel Committee this is part of a sinister scheme to phase out further assistance to independent schools in the future. Nothing could be further from the intention of the Labor Party. The Labor Government is determined to make a permanent commitment to the education of every Australian child and every Australian young man and young woman. This legislation is a step in that direction. I congratulate the Minister on the legislation he has brought down and I congratulate him on his choice of a Schools Commission. I am sure that in the years ahead the Commission will make a major contribution to the education of all Australian children, whether they attend State schools or non-State schools. 
I would like at the commencement of the discussion on this matter to take up the point that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  just made when he spoke about the need for an Australian defence role commensurate with the new initiative that the Government is taking in foreign policy. I am not altogether sure whether that means that he is endorsing the foreign policy of the Government but I am happy to see that he appreciates that the Labor Government has a more dynamic and forward looking foreign policy. 
If the honourable member did not say that it was certainly implied when he suggested that the defence policies of the Government were not keeping pace with its foreign policy. In the Budget for the current year an appropriation of SI, 345m is sought as compared with $ 1,285m last year. The fact that this fairly modest increase is not of the level of increase that has been made in some previous budgets recognises, of course, a change in the defence commitment which Australia had to the war in Indo-China and which happily no longer exists. It also takes into account the fact that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  is trying to get in his Department a complete assessment of the future defence needs of Australia, something which was not made for many years under the previous Government. It would have been difficult to make before given the commitment of the previous Government to the Vietnam war. 
I would like to give the lie very clearly and distinctly to any suggestion that there is any complacency on the part of either the Minister or the Australian Labor Party Government in this vital area of defence. Some of the matters that have been so far cast into this debate today show that honourable members have distorted what the Minister said in his defence statement on 22 August last, and I point out that it has taken the Opposition 2 months to bring this matter before the Parliament. The Minister then said: 
This assessment of the situation Australia is likely to face in the next decade does not, of course, mean that Australia can dispense with defence strength. I have already referred to uncertainties in the longer term. In matters affecting the nation's security it is necessary to move with prudence. I wish to stress also the extent to which Australia nowadays and in the future must accept the primary and independent responsibility for safeguarding our security and strategic interests. We are no longer simply a junior partner who-e activities are largely shaped by the strategic and military policies of more powerful friends. We shall maintain our co-operative relations with them, which we greatly value. 
He went on to say: 
The modern situation requires Australia to be more self-reliant than in the past, and this is very much in accord with this Government's view of our independent national status. We must have forces in being for the surveillance and patrol of the environs of this continent. We must maintain our ability to be a source of military advice, technology and training which are helpful in the development of the defence capabilities of other countries in our region with whom we maintain defence co-operation and aid programs. 
Is that the attitude of a Minister who is selling out the Australian defence program? Is that the attitude of a Minister who feels that no attention should be devoted to defence because there is no immediate implied threat to Australia? It has been suggested that the present developments in the Middle East invalidate the assessments on which the Australian Government is basing its defence policy. It seems that 2 arguments are put forward. The first argument is that if Israel was taken by surprise, presuming that is how that conflict began, Australia also may be taken by surprise. But there is no parallel between the position in the Middle East and Australia's position. In the Middle East the Arabs and the Israelis have been locked in a situation of strategic tension for years. Each poses a palpable military threat to the other. The risk of attack is inherent in the situation. This is not how Australia is placed. Which nation is it that the Opposition considers is threatening Australia? Which nation is it that the Opposition considers likely to threaten us? 
This Government is not saying that no threat is possible. But merely to say that a threat is possible is not enough. A responsible government must take the matter further and assess which, if any, of a range of possibilities are likely. It is necessary closely to consider capabilities, motives, opportunities, the way the international situation is developing and so forth. It is obvious that, unlike the nations of the Middle East, no nation threatens Australia at present. Clearly any threat is going to take time to develop. At present there are no signs of such a development taking place. This could change. But it would not happen overnight or tomorrow. The second argument by the Opposition is that the war in the Middle East will affect Australia's security because it will disturb the global balance between the United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, on which our security basically rests. The honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  declared that it was a matter of commonsense that the Middle East hostilities would lead to serious instability in the Indian Ocean and the South East Asian area. Of course, a deterioration in relations between the US and the Soviet Union could be a consequence of the Middle East fighting. But each of the super powers has major interests in ensuing that relations are preserved. Present indications strongly support the expectation that the stability of relations between the US and the Soviet Union will not be seriously affected by the Middle East hostilities. 
I now refer, in some passing way because my time is running out, to some of the statements made by members on the other side of the House. The honourable member for Barker referred to his reception in South East Asia. The principal Chinese language newspaper in Singapore, for example reported, in comment on the Minister's speech in response to  Mr Denis  Warner, that Australia had decided to stop urging Asians to fight Asians. That statement by the Minister was favourably commented on by the Singapore Press in general and also throughout South East Asia. At the time the honourable member for Barker was in Singapore his visit was not reported in the Singapore Press at all. A number of issues are being thrown down to us and we are being asked why we have not done anything about them. The previous Government had the DDL program on the stocks for years and it never fired the starting pistol because the expense was so great. Let members of the Opposition state when the decision was made to proceed with the DDL program. No such decision was ever made or announced to the House. Plenty of suggestions were made that it would happen. 
When my Party came into office we found that the Williamstown dockyard would not be ready to service the DDL program. In point of fact the money has been committed to develop such facilities at the Williamstown dockyard as will enable an Australian destroyer program to 'be set under way in the future. Both' the honourable members for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  and the honourable member for New England who preceded me in this debate talked about HMAS Sydney being taken out of service without any replacement. Do they think that we could have replaced HMAS Sydney in 10 months? The fact of the matter is that the previous Government had made no decision' on the future of the Fleet Air Arm over the mote than 10 years in which its future was in question. The very fine men who are stationed at HMAS Albatross are living in Second World War accommodation. The accommodation is a complete disgrace and is very much worse than the accommodation at Kapooka, Amberley or many other defence establishments around Australia. The morale of the Fleet Air Arm over many years has been poor because the previous Government made no decision to continue the Fleet Air Arm. A study has been set under way and the results of that study will be known to the Minister later in the year. The assessment of the future of the destroyer program can be determined only when the needs of the Fleet Air Arm of the future can be placed on the table. These are among the problems which we have inherited from the previous Government. 
I went with the Labor Party's defence committee to Garden Island more than 5 years ago. I was amazed, when the committee went there recently, to find that the master plan for Garden Island, which had been shown to us at that time, has never been approved. The long standing request of the Navy to build a finger wharf  on the eastern side of Garden Island in order that vessels might be moored there and not at the entrance to the dockyard where they have to be shifted when the dockyard is being used, has never been met and the commitment has never been made. The Navy is still asking for a decision on the master plan for Garden Island. I found a similar situation in Brisbane with HMAS Moreton. A decision was made to expand the landing ship squadron, and I commend the previous Government for that decision. The present Government has made a decision to improve the accommodation in order that the crews might have decent living conditions. 
We have inherited from the previous Government a defence situation which, instead of being the rosy picture that has been painted here this morning, is nothing less than a disgrace. I commend the Minister for the energy and the determination with which he is looking at the Australian defence program and the problems that face this country in the near future. I am sure that the results of the planning which has been done to very much improve the structure of the Australian defence forces, and the good relations which the Minister has with senior members of the defence forces will become apparent in the immediate future and will show how this Government has moved forward. I deplore that the Opposition should raise this matter in the House at this time and also make statements elsewhere in an attempt to destroy the morale of the Australian defence forces. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member's time 'has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
I thank the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  for the very generous way in which he has approached this question. There was almost nothing in his speech with which I do not heartily and enthusiastically agree. We are concerned at the question of ministerial responsibility. I also feel that it is a good thing that the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  has brought this question before the House. As one of a number of members on both sides of the Parliament who are interested in Aboriginal affairs I feel some concern at the present situation in which many statements are being made, some based on fact and some based on fancy. Whatever their purpose they are likely to have a harmful effect on the Aboriginal program. I accept that the matter of public importance raised by the honourable member for Gwydir was not put forward with that in mind. I am a member of the Labor Party's Aboriginal Affairs Committee, and have been for some time. I assure the House that there is absolutely no complacency on the Labor Party's side of Parliament about the Aboriginal affairs program or the Government's performance to date. 
I think it is important to set some of these matters straight. In a debate of this kind, while dealing with ministerial responsibility we should not do any harm to the program by being ungenerous to people who have made quite a contribution. The policy upon which the Labor Party was elected at the last election included a plank on Aboriginal affairs and that plank remains. I freely admit that we have found some looseness in different areas. This was so under the previous Government and continues under our Government. Under the leadership of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs a great deal was done to tighten up the loose areas. The program for which the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was originally responsible in no small measure involved trusting Aborigines to the maximum possible extent to manage their own affairs. This Government has advanced money, as the previous Government did, to Aboriginal organisations which seemed to have a cohesive element, a constitution and a program that looked worthwhile, in order to allow them to spend the money in the interests of the Aboriginal people and in accordance with the priorities that the Aborigines determined. Unfortunately, in a program of this kind one hears rather more about the failures than about the successes. There are failures but there are also many success stories. I pay a tribute to the honourable member for Mackellar who was a pioneer in this area. He set the programs on the base which has been used by succeeding Ministers and the present Government. 
When the Labor Party was elected its Aboriginal Affairs Committee in conjunction with the Minister carried out over a period a survey reviewing public expenditure in order to develop guidelines which would ensure that the principles to which I referred were followed while the Aboriginal people were given the necessary support to enable them to spend money wisely. The new Minister will find, as the previous Minister found, that there are great difficulties. The Aboriginal people of this country expect us to solve vast problems in a very short space of time. The previous Minister had to cope with the expansion from a small office to a department, and that is not easy, particularly when trying to involve Aboriginal people in enterprises to the maximum possible extent. Many Aboriginal people do not have qualifications which are recognised by the Public Service Board. Nevertheless, they might be able to play quite a responsible and useful role in Aboriginal affairs. 
Many Aboriginal people have an unreal expectation of what this Parliament can do in allowing them to spend public money. It has not been pointed out to them that money appropriated from budgets of this Parliament has to be spent in accordance with the Audit Act and under the supervision of a Minister. Some of the expectations that have been held up to Aboriginal peeople unfortunately are unrealistic. I think there is a need for the Government to make fairly soon in the Parliament a well considered and wide-ranging statement on Aboriginal affairs in order to set the record straight and to let the people of Australia know the principles that guide the Government in its expenditure in these matters. The Government should also let the Aboriginal people, some of whom are outside Parliament House now, know what it is all about. This matter of public importance has to do with the Council for Aboriginal Affairs. It has been suggested that Ministerial responsibility has not been properly exercised. We on this side of the House take note of the views expressed by the right honourable member for Higgins. I support his views. But I should not like this opportunity to pass without placing on record the great work done by the Council in earlier days in the innovative stage because, without doubt, at a time when the Commonwealth was exploring new policies the Council played a substantial role in advising the Minister of the time on the development of those policies. 
The role of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is unique because unlike the Department of Health - I choose that Department because of the presence of the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  at the table - which has a clearly defined responsibility, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, given the joint Commonwealth and State responsibilities in this area, has not only the responsibility for expending money on its own Estimates but also the problem of acting as a catalyst for co-ordinating the work of the other Commonwealth departments in the field and for coordinating with State departments and other organisations. It was for that reason that the late  Mr Holt,  the then honourable member for Higgins, in his wisdom set up the Council for Aboriginal Affairs. While there may be matters which should be looked at, and which are being looked at, in the whole question of the administration of Aboriginal affairs - and I think we all agree that what is happening at the moment is a searching review of all these procedures - the fact of the matter is that the Council has served the Aboriginal people of Australia well and we would be ungenerous in the extreme if we let this debate pass without placing that statement on record. 
The matter of a one-line entry in the Budget was raised by the right honourable member for Higgins. Of course, this is not the only one-line entry we have seen in Budgets. Hon- ourable members will recall that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has a one-line entry in the Budget. However, the expenditure of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is accounted for in the AuditorGeneral's report. Much of this one-line entry - which amounts to more than $30m if my memory serves me correctly - is made up of money provided to the States. Very little is not subject to audit. The procedures laid down by the present Government require an Aboriginal organisation to have a constitution, to have a proper accountability, before it receives assistance. Any Aboriginal organisation that has not met this criterion has found that continued assistance is not provided. 
The matter of turtle farming has been raised. This is the subject of investigation. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  asked the special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  to appoint appropriate people -  Dr Carr  from Florida, Professor Maine from Western Australia and another gentleman on the managerial side,  Mr Smart  - to investigate the matter. We hope that the Special Minister of State will have their report in a week or so - fairly soon. It is not our intention to harm the turtle project. It has never been the intention of any member of the Labor Party to harm the turtle farming project. If that project is viable, both ecologically and economically, every member of the Labor Party and, I am sure, of the Parliament wants it to succeed. 
I think that this has been a useful debate. Many areas of our performance in Aboriginal Affairs should be improved. This discussion has thrown light on the administrative procedures which are, quite correctly, being subjected to a great deal of scrutiny at present. I can say only that I welcome the bipartisan approach to this matter by Opposition speakers to this stage. I think it augers well for the Aboriginal program in the future. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the Premier of Queensland has recently returned from abroad and levelled serious criticisms at the Australian Government on the matter of inflation? I ask the Prime Minister whether the Premier of Queensland has made any constructive suggestion as to action which the Commonwealth should take and whether the Premier has offered the cooperation of the State of Queensland' in any area where the Commonwealth has taken action already. 
I ask the Minister for Northern Development whether he is aware of the criticism that by securing the basis for a long-term sugar agreement with China he undermined and damaged the Australian Sugar Board's negotiating positon on quantities and price while the Board was engaged in negotiating a long-term contract with China. Is there any justification for such a suggestion? 
I have listened with great interest to the speech made by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  who led for the Opposition in the debate on the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill (No. 2) 1973. I was tremendously interested when he went through a long list of organisations and projects that have been helped. Whilst they are mentioned in the table attached to the second reading speech, they are in no way part of the Bill. They were grants to voluntary organisations. In this Bill we are dealing with money which is paid by the Commonwealth to the States for Aboriginal advancement and which is the subject of certificates issued by the AuditorsGeneral of the respective States. If the honourable member was suggesting that the money spent through the States was in any way wasted or not properly accounted for, he should bring .the evidence before this Parliament or take it to the Auditor-General &lt;5f the State concerned. The first range of matters which he raised were actually outside the ambit of the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill (No. 2). 
He raised a number of other questions. The first thing I would like to say is that the grants made to many of the organisations which he quoted were, from my own personal knowledge, approved by  Mr Peter  Howson, the former Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. The tables which the honourable member read to the House were for the expenditure for the year 1972-73, which was covered by the previous Government. He mentioned areas of need such as community centres and housing. We would all heartily agree with his suggestion. I was sorry to hear him refer to 'handouts'. There is a great deal of talk about handouts to Aborigines. I think honourable members on both sides of this House are very much concerned about giving the taxpayer value for the money that is spent on Aboriginal advancement. I know that the honourable member made that point. However, I think he would agree with me that in this field of Aboriginal affairs there is a certain amount of risk capital and that many of the organisations shown in the schedule from which he read are sporting clubs which receive fairly small amounts by way of grants. They are small groups of people who are given a grant to encourage them to move on to better things. 
Having said that, I would like to praise the Government and the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the present Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  who is sitting at the table, for the legislation now under consideration. It provides for Aboriginal advancement through the State governments the sum of $3 2.25m - an increase of 46.6 per cent over the amount provided in the previous year. This money is being allocated to the States. Western Australia receives the largest amount of more than  $llm.  Queensland receives almost $10m; New South Wales, $5.5m; South Australia, $4.5m; Victoria, almost Sim; and Tasmania, $154,000. The largest increases are in relation to Western Australia which receives more than $4m extra, South Australia which receives almost $3m extra, Queensland which receives more than $2m extra, and the other States which receive smaller amounts extra. An amount of $14. 5m is being allotted for housing. Queensland receives the major grant of almost $5m; Western Australia,  i$4m;  and New South Wales, $3m. An amount of $2,064,000 is being allocated for community amenities. Of that amount, Queensland receives $1,601,000. The total amount provided for health is more man $8m, and Western Australia receives approximately half of that amount. An amount of $4,600,000 is allocated for education, $708,000 for employment and $2,179,500 for community and regional projects. 
I propose to deal with some of those individual areas. I express very great satisfaction not only with the increased amount of money made available by the Commonwealth to the various States but also with the very good cooperation which the Commonwealth is receiving from the States in determining these priorities and in giving effect to the programs. Queensland leads the field in the housing allocation for this year by receiving a grant of $4,820,000. Last year a lesser allocation resulted in the building of 91 houses on government settlements in Queensland, 150 houses elsewhere, and 15 houses in the Brisbane metropolitan area - making a total of 256 houses. The program for 1973-74 is for the construction of 304 houses. Whilst the needs are very great and I welcome the increased expenditure on housing, I believe that the money spent through the Queensland Government has been wisely spent. From looking recently at the way in which the New South Wales Housing Commission has spent its money on housing, I know that the money allocated to that State has been wisely spent. 
I strongly believe that, to the maximum extent possible, housing for Aborigines should be built by authorities that build houses for the whole of the Australian community. I do not subscribe to the idea that we should have special authorities building houses for Aborigines, except in those very isolated or exceptional circumstances in which there seems to be no better solution. But, if Aboriginal people who choose to live in our communities wish to be housed, then I think it is very wise indeed if they are housed by construction authorities such as the New South Wales Housing Commission - to use that example again - in pleasant suburbs, in the same streets as non-Aboriginal Australians and in houses of the same standard. I can only say that when the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs went to Moree and to places on the south-east coast of New South Wales in recent times - I am sure that other members of that Committee will agree with this - we were all very much impressed with the quality of houses built through the New South Wales Housing Commission. 
Of course, there are great needs in housing. I would like to see in the programs for succeeding years some provision for the training in the building industry of young Aborigines who show a capacity for this area of employment. They could be trained as bricklayers, carpenters and the like. I realise that many of these young men would not have the secondary school qualifications necessary to commence an apprenticeship. Indeed, many of them live in country towns in which the number of qualified tradesmen is fairly small and it would be difficult for them to enter upon apprenticeships. We probably need, on a regionalised basis, colleges operating in the field of the building industry to train young Aboriginal people to serve in this industry in which they will not only receive employment but also work to advantage their own people. Of course, when I talk about building through organisations such as housing commissions which cater for the needs of the whole community, I am not unmindful of the fact that Aborigines everywhere do not wish to live in housing commission type houses. There is a need to design special types of houses - I know that the word 'transitional' is a dirty word in relation to housing, but it need not be - to cater for the particular needs of Aborigines and to suit the degree of transition that they have made from their own traditional environment to living in the broader Australian community. 
Under the second heading of community amenities, I am happy to see that Queensland is to receive $1,601,000, which represents 77 per cent of the program. One can see in this program - I shall refer to Queensland specifically- that $375,000 is provided for the Palm Island water supply, $200,000 for Palm 
Island sewerage, $180,000 for Bamaga sewerage, $300,000 for Weipa South sewerage, and $236,000 for power supply in various settlements, making a total of $1,601,000. We are conscious of the fact that infant and child mortality from diseases such as gastroenteritis has been much too  -  (Quorum formed.) I am sorry that the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  is so touchy about hearing these details of the assistance that is being given to the Queensland Government for the purpose of Aboriginal advancement, because the seat he represents - how well he represents it one can judge for oneself - carries the name of a person who had a very honourable record in Aboriginal affairs for a great understanding of the Aboriginal people. 
I was mentioning that this money is being made available and that it means not only that we are able to erode away the bad health record in some of these communities but also that we are able to provide employment at the same time. I was happy to learn in conversations with officers of the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs recently that the contracts which are being let for sewerage and water supply in these communities require that preference in employment shall be given to the Aborigines and Islanders who live in these communities. 
In the massive new program of assistance in relation to health, the substantial amount goes to Western Australia which is to receive more than $4m. Much of this amount goes into salaries and allowances for nursing staff and staff in training. Queensland is in second position again, with an allocation of $2,243,000. I think we would all agree that the solution of problems such as health lies not merely with the provision of money; it is a matter also of being able to employ the skilled staff who are willing to serve in country and isolated areas. I think this Government owes a great debt to the program of Aboriginal secondary school grants established by the previous Government when the honourable member for MacKellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was responsible for Aboriginal Affairs. The basis was laid on which in the future a greater number of young Aboriginal men and women would be able to take employment for which they were trained. 
South Australia receives the lion's share in respect of education and one notices for secondary schools there is an allocation of $300,000 in respect of art, craft and home services centres. For Aboriginal teachers in primary schools there is an allocation of $118,000. This is a recognition of the fact that the curriculum in the ordinary secondary schools is not well adapted to the needs of Aboriginal children. I am pleased that the Commonwealth is able to assist the Government of South Australia in this worthy enterprise. There are other important areas, of which employment is one. Also community and regional projects are important. 
This legislation is a recognition by the Commonwealth of the continued value of the States in Aboriginal affairs. The States are being assisted to carry out their programs. Although we do not always agree with the States in all respects, we do acknowledge the value of the work that they are doing. I should like to put to the State Governments that they need to take advantage of the young Aboriginal people who now for the first time have educational qualifications and to provide employment for them as teachers, members of the police forces in the States, social workers and the like. There is a need to utilise these young people who are now receiving a secondary school education, which was not available to their predecessors, and to place them in meaningful and rewarding employment so that they may play their proper role in advancing their own people. 
Having said that this is a recognition of the continued value of the work of the States in Aboriginal affairs I should like to emphasise the need for a Commonwealth regional presence throughout Australia to permit a coordination of the States' programs. When those of us who are interested in Aboriginal affairs visit country towns or other centres we observe that a lot of good work is being done. Our hospitals have many dedicated doctors and nurses and our high schools have many dedicated teachers. But in order to coordinate housing programs, which are tied up with employment, and the particular educational programs needed for particular regions or areas  -  (Quorum formed.) I wish to emphasise the need for a continued Commonwealth regional presence to co-ordinate the role not only of the State departments that we are assisting through the provisions of this Bill but also the Commonwealth departments. I am sure we would all agree that excellent work is being done by the Commonwealth Employment Service and by the Commonwealth Department of Education. Notwithstanding the work being done by the States there is a very real need to have a Commonwealth regional presence in order to tie programs into an integrated whole and to assess better the assistance being given to organisations such as those spelled out by the honourable member for Herbert. May I say also that the Commonwealth accepts the principle of a positive program of discrimination in favour of the Aboriginal people in this generation in order that there might be equal opportunity in the next. I am sure all honourable members would agree that the Commonwealth has a lot more to do and that there is no room for complacency. On the other hand the Commonwealth is happy to assist the States by way of the measure before the House as well as by other legislation. The Commonwealth acknowledges the role played by the States and looks forward to fruitful cooperation with them in the future. 
I feel some concern at the great deal of criticism that is made about wasteful expenditure in Aboriginal affairs. I know very little of this. (Extension of time granted.) I thank the House but I shall not trespass for long on the House's indulgence. In recent times there has been a great deal of criticism about wasteful expenditure in Aboriginal affairs. I mentioned earlier that we would all appreciate that there is a need for some risk capital in this area. If a small group of people wants to start a football club in a country town, or some enterprise of this kind, and there seems to be some cohesion in this group and a need, surely a grant of $500 to provide the players with jerseys or equipment would be money well spent. Under the present Government there has been a tightening up of financial procedures. Whereas in the past in some cases grants were made on a yearly basis they are now made on a quarterly basis so that public money might be accounted for more properly. There have been some cases similar to that mentioned by the honourable member for Herbert who instanced the situation of an organisation in Brisbane where recently a prosecution took place at no expense to the Commonwealth because the bank concerned allowed a cheque to be paid into an account by people who were not actually officers of that organisation and for the account to be drawn on. Of course dishonest people will be found in all sections of the community and they will take advantage of an opportunity if it is available to them. In this and in other cases when money is not being wisely spent it is the experience of this Government that 
Aboriginal people are quick to learn of what is occurring. In almost every case where money has been spent unwisely it has been drawn to the attention of the Department or the Minister by the Aboriginal people. 
I should like to express my great confidence in the Aboriginal people of this country. I believe that programs such as the present one and other programs which are carried out through the States represent an earnest endeavour, not only by supporters of the Government but I feel sure by a majority of members of the Opposition, to ensure that in the immediate future we will be able to erode away many of the disabilities from which the Aboriginal people suffer at present. I welcome this legislation as being good legislation and I commend it to the House. I am sure it will be carried without dissent. 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to reports of widespread illiteracy and other symptoms of gross socioeconomic and educational deprivation among students at the Glebe? Is he aware that the problem of the disadvantaged child is widespread among government and Catholic schools in some areas? Does the Government intend to provide special assistance for schools of this kind, and is the Prime Minister aware of any attempts to frustrate this intention? Are such attempts directed to diverting available funds to schools where illiteracy and the poverty and cultural deprivation from which it arises are unknown? 
Will the Minister for Defence inform the House of the extent of the Royal Australian Air Force assistance given during the recent floods in north Queensland and the total cost of such assistance? 
 I am grateful for the opportunity to speak on these Bills. I compliment you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on your balanced approach to the matters of great concern to the people of both Queensland and New South Wales. I wish to reply to the contemptible attack that was made upon the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  and to add some thoughts to the matter. I would like to reject completely the suggestion that the Prime Minister was not interested in the position of those people of Queensland who were affected by the floods. I propose to deal with some of those matters in a more ordered sequence a little later in the debate. I suggest that it is not very logical to compare the itinerary of a Prime Minister with the itinerary of a back bench member of the Parliament, such as the honourable member for Griffith or me, who happens to be on a parliamentary exercise overseas. It is not a case of what the Prime Minister was going to do in Kuala Lumpur; it is a case of what effect a delay at that end would have on the succeeding program that he had undertaken in South East Asia. It is a case of what it meant to a carefully planned program. I reject completely any suggestion that the Prime Minister was not interested. 
I was away from Brisbane on the (Friday preceding the Australia Day weekend. I was at Warwick and Killarney. I came home when the cyclone warning was given. I was contacted by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  who was acting as the Treasurer. He said that he had had discussions with the Prime Minister, who was programmed to have certain briefings on matters associated with his trip. At that point in time and over the succeeding period the Brisbane Airport was closed and the position was quite unclear. No one was in any position to assess the damage. If the Prime Minister had come to Brisbane at that point in time he would have been coming on perhaps a sightseeing exercise. It would have been a gesture. Indeed, in discussions with the Minister for Social Security and in later discussions with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  as well as in the sending to Brisbane of the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison),  as the then Acting Minister for Defence, the Prime Minister showed an intimate concern with what had happened in Brisbane and, of course, Queensland. During the whole period the Prime Minister maintained close contact with the Lord Mayor of Brisbane to ascertain exactly what the situation was at any point in time and to offer the Commonwealth's 'help. Before the Prime Minister went away he instructed the Department of Defence and made the offer, in personal communication with the Premier of Queensland, to place all Commonwealth assistance at the disposal of the State Government. 
The honourable member for Griffith raised the subject of the complaint by the Minister for Social Security about assistance being given to the Lord Mayor's flood appeal in Brisbane and not elsewhere. The facts, of course, are that an offer was made by Queensland Newspapers Ltd to the Premier of Queensland to conduct a State-wide flood relief appeal and that offer was rejected by the Premier for the reason that he considered that the question of the relief of personal hardship and distress and the making good of flood losses was more properly a matter for State authorities than for a flood relief appeal. It was only after that rejection was made that Brisbane launched a flood relief appeal. The provision of Commonwealth assistance to the Brisbane flood relief appeal at that time was made as a result of a personal telephone call from the Prime Minister in Kuala Lumpur to the Lord Mayor of Brisbane in which he asked what he could do to relieve distress. 
Although the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  referred to the widespread damage caused throughout Queensland, New South Wales and the Northern Territory - throughout northern Australia - by the floods I think we would all agree that attention does tend to focus on the capital cities and major cities in which such damage occurs. The 2 Bills that we are considering seek to give $66m to the Queensland Government, which will make a contribution from its own sources of $3. 65m, and $5. 5m to the New South Wales Government, which will make a contribution from its own sources of $8.6m. The Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory correctly made the point that this is the most generous program of assistance that has ever been given to the relief of a natural disaster in the history of Australia. I was pleased that the Minister referred to the damage in rural areas. Previous speakers have placed on record their appreciation of the efforts of the people involved in the provision of flood relief. I would like very briefly to say that Queensland owes a very great debt to certain Ministers of the Crown - to the Minister for Social Security, who was acting as the Treasurer in the early stages, to the Prime Minister, to the Minister for Science, to the Minister for Defence and to the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory as well as other Ministers. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  came to Brisbane, as indeed did prominent members of the Opposition. We are grateful for their interest and concern and for what they have done to help, in co operation with State and local authorities, to alleviate the impact of this great disaster. 
There were, of course, some areas of dissatisfaction. Initially they focussed on the means test. There was some suggestion that the means test was a means test imposed by the Commonwealth Government on the State of Queensland. In actual fact negotiations took place and a means test was arrived at. It was relaxed to some extent following discussions between the Commonwealth and the State, which agreed to the introduction of a means test on a phasing-out basis rather than a cutoff point. But I repudiate the suggestion that any means test was imposed by the Australian Government on the governments of either Queensland or New South Wales. When you spoke in the debate,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you very correctly made the point that the figure was $14m below the earlier estimates. The facts of the matter are, of course, that the money has to be paid out by the State government concerned. The level of Australian Government assistance is geared to the level of State generosity. I am not using that word in any sense to reflect on the Queensland Government or the New South Wales Government, but it is a fact that the State has to agree to pay and to undertake these programs before the Commonwealth can come to the party. Through its own machinery - its public service, its police department and its engineering authorities - the State has to assess the extent of the damage. The Commonwealth then makes its contribution by assisting financially and in other ways. 
I am happy with the Queensland Flood Co-ordination Committee comprising the Premier of Queensland, the Lord Mayor of Brisbane and the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory, who is sitting at the table, because it has a very useful function to play in ensuring that difficult cases are assessed quickly. I refer to problems which arise and which might not meet the ordinary guidelines laid down by the respective State authorities or the Australian Department of the Treasury. The Flood Co-ordination Committee, which has met quite frequently has been able to reach agreement on these anomalous cases. This has been greatly to the advantage of the people who have been affected by the floods. 
Previous speakers in this debate have mentioned the Commonwealth authorities involved. 
The expenditure by the Commonwealth in servicing these authorities is not taken into account in the $66m provided to Queensland or the $5.5m made available to New South Wales for flood relief. The expenditure by other Commonwealth authorities is not included in these figures. I do not know whether that amount can be assessed. I hope that when it has been assessed the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  or the Prime Minister will make a statement indicating just what amount of money was involved. Tribute has been paid to the Royal Australian Air Force, particularly to its helicopter operations. I think that in carrying out rescue operations the helicopter pilots tore up their rule books. This was particularly so with respect to those who were rescued in the Beenleigh and Logan areas. The pilots were flying in conditions in which helicopters normally would be grounded. We owe a great debt to the dedication of those men. I know that they operated also into New South Wales. The Army operated in the flood affected areas of Brisbane and Ipswich and in rural areas, working very well and very hard. One would be completely uncharitable not to record that the cost of these operations cannot be measured only in money because the lives of several Service personnel were lost. They gave their lives in assisting their fellow Australians. These sacrifices can never be measured in monetary terms. 
I pay tribute also to the Australian Bureau of Meteorology, the Department of the Treasury, the Post Office, which restored telephones to people free of cost, and the Department of Social Security. I again pay tribute to the honourable member for Oxley who, as Minister for Social Security, directed that special benefits be paid so that people rendered unemployed by the flood would have to wait a qualifying period of not a fortnight, but only one week before receiving the first payment of assistance from the Australian Government. The Minister for Social Security also facilitated the movement to Queensland of social workers from his Department to help in the flood relief centres established in the suburbs, which rendered such great service to the people. We owe a particular debt to the Department of Social Security. I wish also to pay tribute to the Department of Housing and Construction not only for the support it provided to the Queensland Housing Commission in assessing the damage but also for the work done by the 
Defence Service Homes Section for people who occupy defence service homes. The Department of Northern Development, under the direction of the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory, played a major role in rural areas not only in Queensland but also in the Northern Territory. We would be ungracious indeed if we did not at the same time pay a tribute to the Queensland Public Service, to the Queensland Police, to the civil defence organisations, to the leadership of Police Commissioner Whitrod and to the programs being operated from the new operations room at police headquarters in Brisbane - a remarkably efficient and well-conducted organisation. In particular, in the Queensland Public Service I pay tribute to  Mr Spann  of the Premier's Department,  Mr Fields  of the Treasury Department, the Co-ordinator-General, the Queensland Housing Commission and their officers. All of them served the people of Queensland very well during the recent disaster. The staff of the Brisbane City Council, including its engineers, its building inspectors and its workmen, carried out marathon work, as indeed did similar officers of other local authorities. 
I felt very much for those people engaged not only in the activities associated with the flood crisis itself but also in the clean-up in the days thereafter when people were cleaning the rubbish out of houses. I went into some houses in Rosalie that were affected by the floods. I was pleased that my responsibilities required me to spend only a short time there - about half an hour. But I drove away thinking of the men from the Brisbane City Council who were working not only an 8-hour day but also overtime and all through the weekend in order to get the household rubbish and other material that had been deposited in people's yards carted away, thus averting health hazards and the like. These men are not highly paid. We owe a great debt indeed to them. I also would be uncharitable if I did not pay a tribute to our parliamentary colleagues - both State and Federal - and the aldermen of the Brisbane City Council and people who serve on local authorities throughout the State, for what they did. As I do not wish to appear partisan in this matter, I do not intend to mention names. But many of our colleagues from the Australian and Queensland Parliaments - and I am sure from the New South Wales Parliament - and certainly the aldermen and members of local authorities, did great work. 
The Queensland Government subsequently has held a conference to review the effectiveness of its civil defence organisation in the light of the recent flood experience. I am not sure whether that information has yet been given to the Australian Government. But it is a recognition of the fact that this organisation was not perfect and that, in responding to the greatest crisis which the civil defence authorities have ever had to face, it found that considerable room for improvement existed in a number of fields. I am sure that the Australian Government will co-operate with the Queensland Government and its civil defence authorities in order to learn from the problems that were faced in the immediate past and so to ensure that in a similar crisis in the future we will have benefited from that experience. 
The problems of course, yet remain. This legislation has a cut-off time in 1976, which indicates that the Government recognises that some of the work to be carried out and some of the expenditure involved will take a considerable amount of time. I think that the Government has made a realistic decision in relation to this matter. I am pleased to see that in the speech made by the Treasurer he mentions the need for flood mitigation. He specifies the continued interest of the Australian Government in flood mitigation in these terms: 
These disastrous floods focused attention on the need for an adequate approach to the question of flood mitigation and the Government is examining this problem as a matter of urgency. 
The Queensland Government and the Brisbane City Council have together commissioned surveys of the creeks that flooded. They are awaiting the updated reports and the plans on which flood mitgation schemes can be put under way. The interest of the Australian Government, again expressed by the Treasurer, is very much appreciated by the people of Queensland. There are, of course, people who are dissatisfied; people who feel that they should remove their houses but who have not yet received approval to remove them; people who have found that the Government's offer is too small as the official estimates of loss are perhaps too low in the light of current costs of building and materials; and people whose housing losses are yet to be assessed. I am happy to know that the Flood Co-ordination Committee, on which we are represented by the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory, will continue its work in the future and that these problems will be looked at continuously with a view to assisting people wherever they might need to be assisted. 
I thank again the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory and the Treasurer for the sympathetic way in which they have treated any request made by the Queensland Government. Only a percentage of the losses is covered by the program that we have put forward. Newspaper estimates claimed that the losses extend to more than $200m. No one profits by a flood. We are all much wiser having experienced the recent floods. I think that the recent disaster has been a very useful example of the way in which governments which are politically opposed can co-operate when the need of the people arises. I think this level of cooperation was a very great factor in the success of the operation. 
Finally I place on record a tribute to one person who died during the flood, John Skinner, who was secretary of the Flood Action Committee in Brisbane, an organisation set up some years ago to work for flood mitigation proposals. During the flood, John, who was a TPI pensioner, worked ceaselessly in driving people to the flood centre at the YMCA hall at Lutwyche and elsewhere in order that they might lodge their claims. He was an ill man. He drove himself very hard in a cause for which he had worked in quite a dedicated manner over a number of years. During the night, after he had spent most of the day transporting people, he passed away. I pay a public tribute to him and say that the success of flood mitigation schemes in the future will be a tribute to his work. 
 I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Is the Government committed in any way to cut public and social welfare programs as a counter to inflation? 

 - Mr Clerk, as the seconder of  Mr Cope's  nomination I wish to speak in support of that nomination.  Mr Cope,  the honourable Member for Sydney, was the  Speaker  of this House in the last Parliament during which time he showed those qualities of impartiality and fairness to which the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  referred. The honourable member for Sydney is a man of wide parliamentary experience. He was elected to this House in 1955 as the member for Cook. On the abolition of that seat through redistribution he served as the member for Watson and again, following a further redistribution, as the member for Sydney. The  Speaker,  of course, not only presides over the debates in this House but also is associated, in conjunction with the  Clerk,  in the management of all other affairs of the House and of the Joint House Department which call for his day to day action. 
I think that honourable members would all agree that  Mr Speaker  Cope has been a very approachable person and has been assiduous in his attention to his duties. For 2 parliaments prior to his election to the high office of  Speaker  at the start of the last Parliament  Mr Cope  was a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees. If one looks at his record in the Parliamentary Handbook one finds reference to his attendance at conferences of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, the Inter-Parliamentary Union and parliamentary delegations to South East Asia, East Asia, and elsewhere. Attached to his experience is also an experience in local government. I think that members of this House in their wisdom will agree that these qualities well fit the honourable member for Sydney to discharge this high and important office. 
The point was made that there was a ballot .within the Government party for the position of  Speaker.  That reflects the democratic tradition of the Australian Labor Party and is a departure from the authoritarian system in force on the other side.  Mr Cope  in his words and deeds in the former Parliament showed his respect for that democratic tradition. I ask the House to uphold that tradition by supporting his candidature. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to a report which cites the report on the Army Cadet Corps by the Committee of Inquiry into the CMF as saying that private schools which maintain cadet units are entitled to compel students to serve in the cadets? Is this an accurate statement of the position which exists? 
-In this debate I follow a number of honourable members from both sides who have dealt with the economic issues as they see them, pointing out the problems of Australia and the solutions that they put forward to those problems. I propose to take a somewhat different approach tonight. In the fairly short period of time available to me I intend to deal in particular with the assistance given in the Budget to the State of Queensland. In Queensland we have a Country-Liberal Party Government. This Government and in particular the Premier, the Honourable Johannes BjelkePetersen, have been constant critics of the Australian Government since the very day it was elected. It is accused of being parsimonious and mean to the the State of Queensland. It is constantly suggested whenever Commonwealth money has been given to the States that this Government is doing no less than would be expected, that it is merely returning to the people of Queensland the money that they have paid in revenue. Of course, that is in part true. 
On the other hand there has been a whole range of suggestions that the Commonwealth should be doing more to cut back expenditure. I have heard it argued several times in this House in the course of this debate that expenditure should be cut back. But of course the great dilemma is: In which area do you cut back expenditure? I have not heard any suggestion that expenditure to the States should be cut back, either to Queensland or to any other State. There seems to be some concept that expenditure in private enterprise is more worth while and less inflationary than expenditure in public enterprise. The proposition is always advanced that the money spent in State activities gives a greater return to the people than the money spent in activities of the Commonwealth. I do not accept that. What I do say is that if that were true surely a great deal of money that the Commonwealth is voting in this Budget by way of direct grants to the States must be well spent. 
I therefore propose to deal with some of the major areas in which assistance has been increased to Queensland under this Government. Once again in this Budget, following the pattern of the previous Budget, the greatest single area of increase is for education. If one looks at the grants to universities- I propose to compare the figures for the last complete year of the rule of the former Liberal-Country Party Government in 1971-72 with the proposals for the current year- the comparisons in terms of generosity to the State of Queensland must be obvious. 
-May I deal with that a little later on? I think that we all accept that there has been a certain measure of inflation around, and rather more than any of us would have hoped for. I felt that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  suggested in some aspects of his speech that there was something wrong with providing for inflation in the Estimates of the current Budget. Any Australian government bringing down a Budget at this time that failed to provide for inflation, which extends not only to this country but also to the rest of the world, would be irresponsible indeed, particularly in those areas in which the States depend so much on Commonwealth revenue if they are to carry out their activities. 
In 1971-72 the Commonwealth provided grants for universities totalling $ 1 1 m. In this year the Commonwealth is providing over $53m. I accept the fact that there is an offset of $7,800,000 arrived at between the Commonwealth and the States, so the actual increase in Commonwealth assistance for Queensland would be $7,800,000 less than $53m. In 1971-72, the last Budget of the Liberal-Country Party Government, the Commonwealth provided $5,636,000 in grants for colleges of advanced education and teachers colleges. The amount proposed for this year is $34,565,000, a handsome increase. The grants for technical education in 1971-72 totalled $1,238,000 as compared with an amount this year of $6,8 1 5,000. Of course, this is a new area of Commonwealth involvement. I think we would all agree, following the report of the Kangan Committee on Technical and Further Education, that one of the great contributions being made by the Australian Government towards education at the moment is the much needed expansion into the field of technical education. In 1971-72 the amount voted for the State of Queensland in grants for schools was $7,955,000. In the current year it is proposed that $56,838,000 be spent. That is for both government and non-government schools. If we extract from that the non-government schools we find that in 1971-72 an amount of $5,604,000 was paid and in the current year it is proposed to pay $19,107,000. 
In housing, which is another problem area, the amount has doubled from $10,500,000 to $20,900,000. Let me refer to roads. Last week the Queensland Government was threatening to sack people in the Main Roads Department in Brisbane because of the lack of funds. The money made available to the Queensland Government for roads this year will be $71,457,000 as against $45,360,000 in the last year of the Liberal-Country Party Government. I turn now to payments for natural disasters. I do not pretend that this is something on which one can make a a comparison year by year because it depends upon what the current disaster happens to be. In 1971-72 Queensland received $6,889,000 as compared with $26,100,000 proposed to be spent this year as a carry-on from the $27,859,000 provided in 1973-74 because of the great disasters that hit Queensland, other States and other parts of northern Australia at that time. 
A new area of expenditure is urban public transport. In this year's Estimates an amount of $7,757,000 is provided by way of assistance to the Government of Queensland. I would like to expand the discussion on that aspect for the moment. During the election campaign in May  Mr Hooper,  the State Minister for Transport, made much play in the Press in Brisbane about the fact that the Commonwealth was strong on words but not very strong on deeds. He said that money had been promised for urban public transport but that none of it was forthcoming. The documents associated with the Budget Speech point out that some of this money would have been paid earlier if the legislation had been passed through the House. The States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill was introduced in this place on 4 April 1974. That Bill lapsed when the double dissolution took place almost a week later and it was put before the Parliament when it resumed in July.  Mr Hooper  was either deficient in the information provided by his Department or completely uninformed on this question because it was in no way the fault of this Government that the money was not flowing under the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) legislation prior to the present time. 
Let me mention some items of interest so far as assistance to the State of Queensland is concerned. Provided in the Estimates this year will be $1.2m for the first part of stage 2 of the Wynnum public nursing home. It is estimated that only $300,000 of that will be spent in the current year. There is a grant for community health facilities and services- a new program commenced by this Government. The amount of $5,129,000 has been paid. Again we have evidence of the approach of the Queensland Government. There are places in Queensland where community health centres are being built with Commonwealth money. Of course, they are being opened by the State Ministers and built by the State departments. No credit at all is being given to the Commonwealth Government. It has been said of several of these: 'We intended to do this anyway.' Even if that were true, the fact that this large amount of Australian Government money is now available is surely a great help to the people who will benefit from the presence of these medical centres. 
Another new program provided for in this Budget is the school dental scheme- a scheme where the training of dental nurses commenced at the beginning of 1973. The program is now expanding. When the Labor Party looked at the question of what could be done in the field of dental health some years ago it was put to us by the Australian Dental Association that the most constructive thing we could do was to ensure that every child in the course of his or her primary or secondary education was given adequate dental treatment and taught the principles of proper care of their teeth. It was said that if at the end of their compulsory schooling we turned out teenagers with healthy sets of teeth we would be getting better value for the expenditure of public money than we could get in any other area of dental health. That may be a question for debate but the fact of the matter is that for this new program from which we expect great things $3,852,000 has been provided for Queensland in the current Budget. 
The grant for health education campaigns is increased from $48,000 in 1971-72 to $160,000 this current financial year. The proposed expenditure relates primarily to new programs concerning drug abuse and smoking, both very much matters of enthusiasm for the Minister for Health, the honourable Doug Everingham, the honourable member for Capricornia. Of course, in this particular area of health education, considerable amounts of money have been given to private organisations quite apart from the Health Education Council. 
In 1971-72 the government of the day provided $91,000 as grants for senior citizens centres. This year the Australian Government is providing $160,000. In 1971-72 an amount of $661,000 was provided for dwellings for pensioners. This year it is proposed to provide $1,490,000. Thus, of course, is a very good program initiated by the previous Government. This was a 5-year program and it catered only for age pensioners. The increased amount not only reflects the inflation referred to earlier but also indicates that the scheme is being widened to include single invalid, B-class widow pensioners and certain service pensioners who have obtained their service pensions on the grounds of invalidity or because they suffer from tuberculosis. This was a good scheme of the previous government which the present Government is expanding in the current Budget. 
One should perhaps consider some items of capital expenditure to which reference should be made because they are new or because they reflect expenditure in rural areas. For example, this year it is proposed that Queensland will receive $32m towards the cost of the Gladstone power house. I think all honourable members will agree that this is a handsome sum. New works related to water resources development are proposed. It is expected that this year $300,000 will be spent on the Clare weir on the Burdekin River. An amount of $3m is proposed for this work. An amount of $2m is provided in the Budget for the Bundaberg irrigation works for which the Commonwealth has agreed to provide an additional $4.4m. An amount of $880,000 is provided for the Glenlyon Dam which will affect not only Queensland but also New South Wales because it is adjacent to the border. Provision is made for $2m for the Julius Dam at Mount Isa. For the second stage of the Ross River Dam $2. 56m is provided of which it is expected that $600,000 will be spent this year. A further $2.5m is provided for the Eton Irrigation scheme near Mackay. The sum of $3 15,000 is proposed for the Fairbairn Dam and $454,855 for the Dawson River weirs. 

 Mr Speaker, I am sure you will remember that the Burdekin River Dam was an area of controversy in North Queensland for many years. Prior to the 1949 election the late E. M. Hanlon, the Premier of Queensland, approached the then Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley,  for assistance for this work. Assistance was promised. The former leader of the Country Party who, at that time, was the member for Darling Downs, the honourable Artie Fadden, pledged Commonwealth support for the Burdekin River Dam. The money now being provided is the first reflection of Commonwealth money for this project. The first money actually spent on irrigation works in Queensland was spent under the relief for unemployment program in 1962. It was expended at Paddys Green in the Mareeba-Dimbulah irrigation project. After many years it is important to see a Labor Government carrying out a pledge of a former Labor Government for money for irrigation works on the Burdekin River. Of course I accept the fact that we are not building the Burdekin River Dam which was proposed to be built in 1949. For people in the country areas all of these irrigation schemes are important although I agree that the Ross River Dam is important to the people of Townsville as well. 
Another major concern for all Queenslanders and those people interested in the beef industry is the proposed increased expenditure on the eradication of bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis. In 1971-72 the government of the day provided $458,000 for this purpose. This year the Government is providing $1,897,000. An additional expenditure is proposed for the Royal Flying Doctor Service. This year an additional $327,000 is being provided, making the assistance almost $lm out of the $3m which will be provided under a 3-year program. That service does not only apply to Queensland. It operates in other States as well but the Flying Doctor Service is extremely important to people in outback Queensland. 
Other Commonwealth programs in Queensland should be mentioned because major items of expenditure are involved. I was happy last year to see that $122,000 was spent on the flood warning system in the Brisbane River Valley. This year, $2.4m is provided for the Australian Institute of Marine Research near Townsville. For the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation an amount of $1,070,000 is provided for a fisheries research laboratory at Cleveland Point and an additional $779,000 for the Indooroopilly-Long Pocket laboratories. Much of the research carried out in the latter laboratories is devoted to the very important beef industry. 
In the Budget provision is made for the expenditure of $2,774,112 to complete the Taringa Kingsholme Rehabilitation Centre. Very happily $4,250,000 is proposed for the temporary international terminal at Eagle Farm. This building will be constructed as an international terminal for the short term and will revert to use as workshops when the final terminal is built. I am sure that Queenslanders will welcome this commitment to the rebuilding program of the Eagle Farm Airport. Substantial expenditures are proposed for the Postmaster-General's Department. An amount of $9,626,013 carried over is available for the Wooloongabba Telephone Exchange and $734,000 for the first part of the Spring Hill Telephone Exchange. The latter exchange is in my own electorate of Brisbane. Money is provided in the Estimates for 8 new telephone exchanges in Queensland, most of them in country areas. One should not overlook that under the heading 'Defence' this Budget provides money for 8 long-range maritime patrol aircraft to replace the Neptunes at Townsville. Money is also provided to complete new facilities at the Canungra Jungle Training Centre. 
I have dealt only with some of the major expenditures proposed for Queensland, although I have referred to amounts of particular interest. In addition $8,954,000 is provided in the Budget as recommended by the Grants Commission for assistance to local authorities. Of this amount, $2m will go to the Brisbane City Council. This year a record amount of $93m has been approved for local authority borrowings and $44m by way of grants to the States for regional organisations of local government. The total of all this assistance to Queensland this year will be $639m as compared to $475m in the year 1971-72. 
I never particularly like making a speech which is a cataloguing of figures. Such a speech is never attractive to listen to but I felt some purpose was to be gained by contrasting the treatment of the present Government in this year's Budget with the treatment accorded to Queensland in the last Budget of the former Liberal-Country Party Government. I ask those people who suggest that Commonwealth Government expenditure should be cut to say in which of those areas in Queensland where Commonwealth expenditure is proposed such Commonwealth assistance should be cut. This assistance will be substantially welcomed by the people of Queensland and money so spent will contribute to the development of the economy of that State and in the provision of better services to its people by way of health, education, housing and the like. Of course expenditure on defence matters is important to the security of Queensland and the rest of Australia. 
-Is the Minister for Manufacturing Industry aware of the concern expressed as to the future of the shipbuilding industry in Brisbane and the role of Evans Deakin Industries Ltd in the industry? Can the Minister give an indication of the work available to Evans Deakin Industries Ltd and the efforts which the company has been making to sustain a viable shipbuilding industry in Brisbane? 
I address a question to the Minister for Social Security. I remind him of the large number of nursing homes in the Federal Division of Brisbane. I am sure he shares my concern at the difficulties being experienced by pensioner patients over the past 2 months in paying the fees which have been approved by bis Department. Can the Minister inform the House when the bed day subsidy will be increased for Queensland patients? 
-The Minister for Northern Development, to whom I address my question, will be aware of the increasingly serious position of the export cattle industry in Queensland due to reduced demand on world markets. Can he indicate what action the Government is taking to assist the cattle industry, particularly as the economic survival and employment of people over such a vast area of the State are involved? 
I should like in the very short time available for the Estimates debate to refer to some of the matters mentioned by the honourable member for Fairer  (Mr Fairbairn).  If I could take the Committee back to some of the comments he made in his closing remarks, he said that the Government on the eve of an election announced an equipment program. One should say that that is not quite right. It is a fact that the announcement was made on the eve of an election, but at the time that equipment program was announced the Government did not realise that it was the eve of an election; it was before the so-called Gair affair. The Minister had announced his intention of bringing down that equipment program some month or 6 weeks before. Everyone knew the House was expecting an equipment program that session. 
The honourable member for Farrer has made a number of points about the fact that the Government revoked the DDL decision. It is true that an intention to build the DDL was announced by his Government over a long period of time- I think it might have been five or six or more years- and there were various proposals coming down. Several documents that I can recall were tabled in this House. Of course, honourable members know that the term 'DDL' conveys the meaning of a light destroyer, but as time went by this destroyer became a more and more expensive item, and I put it to the honourable member for Farrer that his Government did not make this decision before it went out of office because it could not agree to spend this amount of money. When the present Labor Government came into office it accepted the intention of building a light destroyer, and it found that the Williamstown Dockyard, which would be the logical place for such a construction program to take place, needed reconstruction and rebuilding. It is this Government which has provided the money to modernise and develop the facilities at Willamstown Dockyard to the extent where such a destroyer could be built there at some time in the future. Under the previous Government the capacity of the dockyard was very much run down. 
We have heard about the replacement for the tanks. This is a point that the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  made earlier when he read out a list of hardware that had been around from the Second World War or for 23 years or the like. I put it to any fair minded member of the Committee- and most members of this Committee are fair minded- that it is a bit rough to blame a government that has been in office for a little over 18 months because it has not replaced all the equipment which has been in the armed forces for the previous 23 years or a quarter of a century. There were substantial backlogs in the equipment program. Quite frankly, I would like to have seen more money spent on equipment in the recent Budget. In the current rather difficult financial situation, with a Labor Government keen to develop its social welfare programs, I would have hoped that the Cabinet would be a little more sympathetic to the claims of the defence forces in this year and in the years ahead, because we all accept that there is a need for a long lead time in these matters. But I do not accept that there has been any neglect, because it does take a considerable period to assess a program properly and to get it underway. 
A similar position applies to the replacement for the Neptunes. I have been landing at Townsville airport for quite a long period- not as often as I would have liked in recent times, but life has been rather lively. The Neptunes have been obsolescent, or nearing obsolescence, for a substantial period, and the decision on their replacement as honourable members will know from having read the defence report which is before them at the present time, is about to be made. 
Sure, and I put it to the honourable member that it was about to be made 5 years ago. I am not sure whether it was the honourable member for Farrer, but I do remember that in a defence debate very much back in history one of the Ministers for Defence said that one of the top items in the then Government 's program at that time was a replacement for the Neptunes at Townsville. I am sure that was four or five years ago. In any event, a decision is about to be made and it will be made against the background not only of acquiring the best possible aircraft in terms of the Australian need but also in terms of its flow-on effects to Australian industry. 
I want to take issue with the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  on some of the things that he said. It is one thing to come in here and blame this Government or its Minister for the way in which the defence forces have been treated, but I always consider that it is very poor to say things which have the effect of reducing the morale of the defence forces. This Government is dedicated to getting its defence forces by the voluntary system of recruitment. It does not resort to the methods used by the former Government in introducing conscription. But when the honourable member for Kennedy said that the armed forces were reduced to comic opera proportions- and went on to give some other examples of this kind- I think he skated just along the edge of the Une of being a bit unfair to our very efficient and well trained armed forces. If there are faults in our armed forces then I put it to the honourable member that he should blame this Government. We are in the business of being blamed or shelling out blame, if it is the other side of the coin, and I think it does us ill to belittle the armed forces themselves. 
The honourable member for Kennedy referred to a number of situations. He spoke about action in New Guinea near the West Irian border and the need for possibly 10,000 men. Well, I find it passing strange. In the document which the Minister for Defence has but recently circulated to us, dated a week ago, is the longest statement that I recall in any defence document on Australia's projected defence relations with New Guinea for the year ahead. The document sets out a continuation of that close consultation and co-operation with Papua New Guinea and the major developments that have taken place recently in that country, which is setting up a defence administration in its own right. It also sets out Australia's continued role in co-operation with the Papua New Guinea defence forces in the years ahead. I fail to see how anyone could take exception to the terms in which the Minister for Defence has spelt out the position on this matter. When a country has self-government and is approaching independence it is very difficult to spell out in precise terms some of the things that can be negotiated only at the time of independence. But I deny that there would be any reluctance on the part of a Labor Party government in this country to accept responsibility for the defence forces in Papua New Guinea because, frankly, given the fact that Australia has continuing responsibilities for assisting Papua New Guinea, we would not- I put it to honourable members opposite that they would not eitherwant to see a newly emergent Papua New Guinea devoting an over-large amount of its money to defence preparedness when there are so many more urgent things for it to do. 
I would like to deal with some of the other matters raised by the honourable member for Kennedy. He said that South East Asia, in particular Indonesia, does not trust us. He contested the idea that there is no immediate threat to this country. I take issue with the several honourable members opposite who have made this point in this debate this afternoon. I recall when the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)not  very far back- said that his advice at that time was that there was no projected defence threat for 10 years. I know that there was some disagreement with him on his side of the chamber when he made known that view. But it is not a new story. It is not just the message which has been coming through from the Department of Defence since the present Government was elected. 
Of course, no one ought to be complacent about that sort of story because all of us who have read the lessons of history know that things can change in a fairly short space of time. But, commensurate with the present defence assessment in our part of the world, we have a highly effective defence force. I think that we are all very proud of the capacity of our defence force. I was particularly proud of the work carried out by the armed forces- the Army and the Air Force in particular- during the floods which occurred in south Queensland in earlier parts of this year. The armed forces did not use all of their capacity. They had the capacity to help to an even greater extent than they did, but it was obvious that the training and equipment that they had was such that they were well capable of playing a part in a natural disaster of that proportion. 
I am pleased with the improvements that are taking place at Amberley and Canungra at the present time. I hope that the Minister will continue with his intention to build better accommodation for the staff at Victoria Barracks. I congratulate the Minister on what he has done in the present situation. Again I express the hope that next year the Cabinet will be somewhat more sympathetic to the capital program, because I do believe that there is no room for complacency in this area. 
-I am not opposed to the basic idea behind this discussion which was introduced by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  which is that we ought to have from time to time proper debates on foreign policy in this Parliament and that we ought to have a reasonable amount of time to conduct such debates. I think that we all accept the principle that the people of Australia, generally speaking, are not well informed on foreign affairs or defence matters. When we debate such matters in this Parliament we tend to debate, on both sides of this House, in fairly simplistic terms trying to extract political advantage rather than trying to develop a well informed electorate. 
But I would not like the idea to gain currency that this failure to have proper debates on foreign affairs matters is something that took effect from December 1972. 1 have been in this Parliament since early 1962 and I well recall the hiatus in the last couple of years of the former Liberal-Country Party Government when it was very difficult to get debates on foreign affairs. That Government was prepared to debate foreign affairs matters when there was some political advantage in debating them but was completely unprepared to debate such matters when it was obvious that the people of Australia had turned against the Vietnam policy which was rejected not only by a majority of the people of this country but also by a majority of people throughout the world. 
-One only has to look at the record to see the number of foreign affairs debates and the issues that were covered. I think we all ought to be honest enough to admit that we have never had the sort of free ranging foreign affairs debates that one has in the House of Commons where the important issues of the present and future are properly canvassed by public debate. Rather, foreign affairs debates in this place have hinged on the particular political advantage of the day. 
When one thinks of the infinite number of debates we had on Vietnam until Vietnam went sour and the Opposition would not debate the subject because there were no votes in it. I agree there are many matters of great importance to this country that we ought to debate. It is a fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  is in the Senate- a fairly new developmentand that a number of statements have been made in the Senate. The opportunity has been there to debate those statements but that opportunity has not been taken up by the Opposition in the Senate which, as honourable members are aware, is in a rather more competitive position than the Opposition is here. I do not contest the fact that debates should take place in this House. Let us look at the reason that, in this fairly difficult situation when domestic policies are demanding so much attention we have so little time to do this. 
I am sure that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)-  I do not think any honourable member on either side of the Parliament would contest this fact- enjoys the involvement that he has in foreign affairs. I think that he has brought to foreign affairs, in the period when he was Minister for Foreign Affairs and since, a great deal of capacity, leadership and new direction which was badly needed. I am sure the Prime Minister would have welcomed very much a discussion of this nature but earlier this year the Opposition brought us to a double dissolution and drove like a steam roller through the parliamentary program for this year. Since we have come back this Government has been wrestling with the rather important economic issues that have plagued not only this country but also other countries. If the Opposition had been fortunate enough- that might be a debatable term- to be returned to power at the last general election it would have been wrestling with those issues, too. 
The point has been made that we have not spent enough time on foreign affairs. I do not dispute that fact. I would like to see us debating a whole range of developments that are taking place in our part of the world. I would like to see us debating the future of Timor, for example. Timor is a small country about to become independent. In size it does not differ very greatly from a number of our neighbours in this part of the world. We ought to be showing here that we have an interest in these things. I do not contest that fact at all. 
I hope that next year we will be able in our parliamentary program to have meaningful discussions on these matters in this House. I do not think anybody should get the idea that this has been a particularly easy year. We have now had outlined the parliamentary program which will take us up to the end of the first week in December. We are extending the parliamentary sitting times for the last couple of weeks of this session. Perhaps honourable members might feel that we should sit later into December, but it has been a fairly difficult year for all of us. Anyway, this is very much a matter of opinion. 
The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  mentioned a number of matters. He mentioned the presence of Indonesian ships on the north-west shelf. I would not like anyone to think that this is a matter which has not been given great attention. Not only have vessels of the Royal Australian Navy been diverted to that area but also discussions have taken place in Djakarta on the matter of resolving this question, not by gunboat diplomacy but by the Indonesian authorities exercising some reasonable restraint over the activities of their own nationals. The honourable member for Bradfield also spoke about the Asian forum idea of which we have not heard very much since it was developed. I share the honourable member's hope that there will be further developments in this regard because some of the promising development in this area should be canvassed in this House as soon as possible. 
The honourable member made certain comments about the insults to  President  Nixon. I did not agree with some of the attitudes expressed by Ministers at the time they were expressed in relation to the  President  of the United States although I think that many of the things that were said about  President  Nixon have unfortunately been proven to be correct. I think that one of the hopeful facts of life has been the very successful visits to the United States of America by the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who is there at the present time. I come from the State of Queensland. There is a fair bit of political shot and shell around there at the moment for some reason and the Premier of Queensland is fond of attacking the Prime Minister for going overseas. I notice that some members of the Opposition in this House made certain comments, and I am not thinking of Queensland members when I say that. 
Surely it was most important that the Prime Minister of this country should have gone to meet the new American  President.  It was certainly in line with almost every principle of foreign policy enunciated in this Parliament by the previous Government during its term of office. I think that all Australians ought to welcome the extremely successful negotiations that took place recently in the United States between the Prime Minister and  President  Ford. All Australians should welcome the extremely successful discussions that are taking place at the present time between the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the American authorities. I would hope that a statement can be made on those matters when the  Deputy  Prime Minister returns, and I would hope that we will have time to debate it. In relation to the lack of time in this area, again I make the point that the whole wreckage of this year's program was brought about by the complete irresponsibility of the Opposition in bringing on a double dissolution by threatening to oppose supply in the Senate earlier in this year. Any government wrestling with serious economic problems must of the very nature of things devote its time to those problems. 
I do not know that there is much more that I wish to say. I do not propose therefore to take up the remaining couple of minutes available to me. However, I repeat that I do not disagree that we should spend more time in debating foreign affairs. But this is not a new development; it goes back to the days of the previous Government when it was virtually impossible to have meaningful discussions on foreign affairs outside those areas of immediate political advantage to the Government. In my time in the Parliament there has never been a wide ranging discussion on foreign policy such as I would hope ought to be the norm in this House. I think it is the function of the Government to set an example in this matter. I know that the Prime Minister, with his own very deep interest in foreign affairs, would have that same view. I hope that next year when we get back to a normal parliamentary session, unaffected by the irresponsible activities of the Opposition, we will have more time to devote to this area. But I repudiate any suggestion that the fact that we have not had this time was brought about by any neglect or lack of interest on the part of the Government; anything but that. 
I would like, first of all, to express my appreciation to the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  for a thoughtful and generous speech in the area of Aboriginal affairs, to which he has a great commitment. Those of us who have been with him in his electorate know the real and genuine interest that he takes in the Aboriginal people who live there. One of the heartening things that has occurred in this Parliament in the time that I have been here- almost 13 years- is the number of people of all political persuasions on both sides of the House who have developed a very real interest in the wellbeing of our Aboriginal fellow Australians. 
I should like to make one or two comments on the matters raised by the honourable member for Gwydir. I should like to deal with the general question of Queensland a little later on. The honourable member for Gwydir mentioned the action of the New South Wales Housing Commission in providing houses at Moree when Aboriginal housing associations have not apparently, up to this point of time, been able to deliver the goods. There are, of course, 2 problems involved. Much of the land is Aboriginal reserve land and the New South Wales Housing Commission would not allow houses to be built on that reserve. The other point I should like to make is that, of course, the houses that have been built by the New South Wales Housing Commission under the Housing for Aborigines scheme are funded through the States grants legislation that we have before us. 
The honourable member for Gwydir dealt at some length with the position of the New South Wales Aboriginal Aid Service. This is a very worthwhile service. Its foundation goes back to the previous Government. It was assisted by the previous Government although it arose very much out of an Aboriginal initiative. There is a great need for this service. Those of us who have watched the development of the Legal Aid Service and other legal aid services I am sure all agree that they have done a very good job for the Aboriginal people. I do not think anybody doubts the future of the Legal Aid Service. The argument between the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  and the New South Wales Aboriginal Legal Aid Service was on the question of accountability. It must be transparently obvious to members of this House, whatever their political persuasion, that one cannot spend public money allotted through any form of assistance to an organisation unless that organisation is able to account for that public money. If governments do not insist on proper accountability for money given to Aboriginal organisations or the many other organisations that have been assisted by programs of this Government and former governments, then those programs will not survive. 
When we came into Government we found that our predecessors had assisted organisations on the basis of a yearly grant and that very often Aborigines, with the best intentions in the world, did not have the administrative capacity to spend that money as well as they might. They have tended to transfer money from one purpose to another- perhaps it was money made available to employ a field officer and perhaps that money was transferred to buy a motor car which might have been the top priority, as they saw it. There was obviously a need to bring this under control. 
Under the administration of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  who is sitting at the table, a better form of accountability was introduced. That occurred in the recent past. I am speaking of the financial year which ended on 30 June this year. It follows that some of these organisations which have been assisted on a trial basis and encouraged to develop their capacities have not measured up. It is necessary to point out to those organisations that they have to measure up to proper accounting procedures in the near future if they are to be assisted with public funds. I do not particularly welcome the confrontation or the suggestion that the Legal Aid Service might be cut off without any funds at all. I am sure that if people realise that there are 2 sides to this question and realise that if these programs are to succeed the proper accountability is necessary, there would be a lot more understanding of the position of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
We have 2 Bills before us. I am happy that the Opposition is not opposing either of them. The first Bill is the Aboriginal Loans Commission Bill. It replaces the Aboriginal Enterprises Assistance Act 1968. The Aboriginal Enterprises Assistance Act was a successful piece of legislation. It provided an arrangement whereby Aboriginal business enterprises could be assisted on fairly generous terms in order that Aborigines could start businesses, buy businesses and develop a better income and a better life for themselves. In the experience of the last few years we have now come to realise that there are many other areas in which Aborigines need assistance. I refer, for example, to the actual purchase of a home. When the program of assistance through the States for Aboriginal housing was evolved, no one imaged that Aborigines would actually own land themselves. It was a scheme much like the Commonwealth-State housing scheme in which Aborigines would have made available to them rental homes on a very generous economic rental basis. But those of us who have been interested in this field have found that there have been Aborigines who have acquired their own piece of land or who may have been given a piece of land on which to build a house. Because Aborigines very often live in isolated places where it may not be easy to sell the house to some other person, it is not always easy for them to get the finance. Indeed, I think we would all agree that it is not easy for an Aboriginal person to get finance from a building society or a bank. 
-Well, be that as it may. But if the honourable member's skin was a different colour he would find that it was even harder. This Bill makes provision to assist Aborigines in this whole area of housing- in the provision of furniture and a whole range of other activities, such as paying for funerals and the other calls that Aborigines have on them. Indeed, we all have those calls on us but they have a lesser capacity to meet the demand. 
Perhaps it would be worth while to spell out again the policy of the Government, which is to provide such assistance to Aborigines in this generation that the lot of the Aboriginal people of this country might.be so improved that in future generations they might have real equality with all other Australians. The fact that the Opposition is supporting this legislation indicates that the Opposition realises too that it is necessary in this time, in this generation, to assist Aborigines generously in some cases in order that they and their children might enjoy real equality with other Australians in the next generation. 
The next piece of legislation before us is the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill 1974. In the discussion tonight on some other pieces of legislation we heard about this centralist Government, this socialist Government, this Government that is grinding the States out of existence. This legislation whereby an increasing amount of assistance has been given to the States for Aboriginal advancement every year is an indication of this Government's knowledge that many of these services are better provided through the States. It has never been the intention of this Government to set up a Department of Aboriginal Affairs like the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs which has been referred to at some length already and which has, in its day, managed the affairs of Aborigines from the cradle to the grave. Rather we see that at some time in the future this Aboriginal administration that we are setting up may be able to fade away as its responsibilities are taken over by those departments which service all other Australians. That is what we are working towards. It is a long way ahead. I well remember when the late  Mr Pizzey,  the former member of Isis and Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs in Queensland, took that office he said to his departmental officers that their function was to work themselves out of a job. I hope that in a long time ahead that is the situation at which we arrive. This Bill is a recognition by this Government that many of these services are better provided by the States because the States provide services such as these to all other members . of the Australian community. The increasing level of assistance is very heartening. 
I would like to clear up the question of assistance to Queensland. It will be appreciated that this year Queensland obtains more money than it did last year, but that extra assistance over and above what was committed earlier in the year and which has been given to the other States has been cut down. The Minister has taken this attitude because of the failure of the Queensland Government to co-operate with the Federal Government. I am not one of those people who say that the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs in Queensland is wrong in all respects. There are some very fine people in the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs in Queensland. I would regard some of them as my friends, and I hope that they would reciprocate that attitude. However, I think there are many aspects of Aboriginal administration in Queensland which are completely reprehensible. I do not want to go into the question of discriminatory legislation because no doubt that is a matter which we will be canvassing later this year or early next year. Having in mind the large amount of assistance that this Government is giving and previous governments have given to Queensland, one of the things that I find most reprehensible about the Queensland situation is the fact that very few Aboriginal people- I refer to Torres Strait Islanders in this as well- are actually occupying positions of authority or responsibility on Queensland settlements. It is an indictment of the administration of the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs that a secondary education for an Aborigine is a one way ticket to the world outside, and that while the junior pass was formerly the level of entry to the Queensland Public Service, to the Queensland Police Force and, in earlier days, to the Queensland teaching profession, hardly any Aborigines have gone into the Queensland Public Service, only a handful have gone into the teaching profession, and I do not know of any who have gone into the Police Force. I would be happy to be corrected on that point. If any have gone into the Police Force, the number is very small indeed. 
Queensland is not out of step with this Government, it is out of step with every other Government in Australia on the question of land rights. Let us just look at the situation. South Australia set up a Lands Trust. It was advanced for its day but I think that time has passed it by. The setting up of the Trust was a recognition of Aboriginal land rights. The Liberal Government in Victoria transferred land rights at Lake Tyers and Framlingham to its Aboriginal people some years ago. The Government of New South Wales passed legislation whereby Aborigines on reserves could apply to have those reserves transferred to a lands trust, and that legislation has been on the statute book of New South Wales for some years. The former Labor Government in Western Australia took steps in this direction, and there is no sign that the present LiberalCountry Party Government has any intention of reversing those steps, although I understand that it has some reservations about money accruing from mining on reserves. But land rights are not in question. 
We have had a picture painted of us that we are trying to take over the Queensland reserves. Nothing could be further from the truth. We are in the process of transferring the reserves in the Northern Territory to the Aborigines who occupy those reserves, the Aborigines who have traditional claims to those lands. Our purpose in seeking the co-operation of the Queensland Government was that the Queensland Government would face up to those obligations that we have accepted under International Labor Organisation conventions, such as the Convention on the Rights of Tribal and Indigenous People. We have an obligation in the international arena to face the other nations of the world in matters such as this. All other Australian States have accepted their obligations and the Government of Queensland has repudiated those obligations. I hope that the Government of Queensland will come to its senses. We know that an election is pending. It is probably a difficult few weeks for the encumbent Government to start changing political attitudes that are well established, but there is plenty of reason at this end of things and 
I wish there was a little more reason in Queensland, because we are keen to evolve responsible patterns of Commonwealth-State cooperation in the interests of the Aboriginal people of that State. 
I can well understand the frustration of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  when on occasions he has gone to Queensland and negotiated in good faith with the Minister in Queensland,  Mr Hewitt.  I am not suggesting that  Mr Hewitt  has not negotiated in good faith, but these negotiations have later been repudiated by the Premier of Queensland. I can see that time is running out. I am happy to support this legislation. I am happy to see that an increasing amount of assistance is to be given to the States. I think that all of us who have been involved in Aboriginal affairs recognise that the States have a role to play, that by and large they play it generously and well, and that a very successful pattern of co-operation has been evolved. I again express the hope that the Queensland Government elected on 7 December will be a Labor Government. However, I recognise the difficulties involved in the electoral boundaries in that State. Whatever government is elected, I hope that we get the same degree of co-operation between that Government and the Federal Government that this Federal Government has received from every other State in the Commonwealth. 
Debate interrupted. 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs I bring up the report on the present conditions of the Yirrkala people, together with the minutes of proceedings of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
-I ask the Minister for Urban and Regional Development: What progress has been made on the allocation of funds to Queensland local authorities under the national sewerage program for 1974-75? In particular, can the Minister give the House an indication of the amounts offered by the Australian Government to shires and other councils in Queensland for sewerage and the terms and conditions under which this assistance will be made available? 
-In the first part of my fairly short contribution this morning I wish to refer to one matter raised by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  who mentioned the claim made by  Sir Alan  Fletcher in Queensland that the amount of $12,384,503 outstanding to the Education Department of that State had been applied for by his Department on 11 October 1974. I am informed by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  that on 11 October 1974 the Queensland Government requested advances in November 1974, January 1975 and April 1975. In a very prompt reply to  Sir Alan  Fletcher, the 
Australian Minister for Education indicated that the Queensland advance would be paid in the next few days in the month of November when it was requested. I repudiate any suggestion that the Australian Government or the Australian Minister for Education has been tardy in this matter. 
The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  raised the question of the electoral gerrymander in Queensland. I make it quite clear as a member of the Labor Party since 1946 that I did not support the gerrymanders in Queensland. I did not support inside the Party the redistribution carried out by the Labor Party in Queensland before the 1950 State election. But 2 wrongs do not make a right. In the many years of Labor government in Queensland, no Labor government ever governed on a vote as small as the vote on which the Country Party occupies the majority position in the Queensland Government at this time. Hopefully, in a few weeks time, it will be the Queensland Opposition. The fact of the matter is that in all of the long years of Labor rule in Queensland the Labor government enjoyed more often than not the majority support of the people of Queensland. Even if the boundaries had been absolutely fair- I concede that they were not- there were 2 elections in that time when the Labor government would have been defeated. One has only to look at the votes attracted by Labor leaders like the late  Mr Forgan-Smith,  the late honourable E. M. Hanlon and ex-Senator Gair, at whom members of the Opposition were sneering in the course of the contribution made a few minutes ago by the honourable member for Gippsland. 
I wish very briefly to speak on the proposed trip overseas by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I say again that, while some members of my Party did, I never criticised the trips made overseas by the former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies. He came in for a lot of fire for this sort of thing in the early days of his Government. It is part of the facts of life that when a Government comes into office, its Prime Minister and its Minister for Foreign Affairs must spend a great deal of their time travelling overseas. If we look at the places mentioned on the itineraryAthens and the like- we see that it is easy to say that they are holidays. Malta is another of the places to be visited. In point of fact, these are visits to places from which Australia has drawn many migrants in the past. These are countries with which Australia values its good association and countries where the Prime Minister is keen to meet the heads of State and cement a continuing and good relationship into the future. 
It will not surprise honourable members to know that I am now to deal with some Queensland matters. I wish to deal specifically with postal vote malpractices in nursing homes in Brisbane to the advantage to the Liberal Parry, and particularly in my area of experience in the Brisbane Federal Division. I am not attacking the Liberal Party as such. I make the point that I am not attacking all nursing homes. But I am quite deliberately not naming those nursing homes involved at this stage in the knowledge that not to do that might cast a reflection on the nursing homes which are not guilty of malpractices. It is a fact that there are a number of nursing homes in the metropolitan area of Brisbane where the Liberal Party receives privileged access in terms of applying for postal votes or electoral visitor votes in the State election campaign and in distributing how-to-vote cards and pamphlets and in actually placing people on the roll. 
I recall the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  talking about postal vote malpractices on many occasions in the past. I make it quite clear that I do not seek on behalf of the Labor Party as well privileged access to any nursing home or institution. But I believe that people who are aged and ill should be just as entitled to cast a vote for the party of their own choice as they were when they formerly occupied their own homes. 
We now have the position where in the New Farm area and in particular in the electorate of Merthyr, the Liberal Party, the present State member and his secretary have privileged access to these homes and where Labor Party people are denied access. There is no redress from this situation. There is no practical redress because the nursing homes involved are private ones. There is no breach of the law. If one sends scrutineers with the electoral visitor or the mobile booth system- this is a proposal in the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill 1974 which was passed by this House on Monday of this week- applies we all realise that the scrutineers are not able to distribute how-to-vote cards. A pretty shocking state of affairs results. This situation has existed for some years, and it is getting worse. I would like to put the nursing homes involved on notice that I have looked at this matter very carefully. 
I am not referring now to a malpractice in a Federal election campaign, although malpractices existed in the last Federal election, not only in terms of intimidation of people and denying the Labor Party officials access to nursing homes, but also in terms of deliberate intimidation of some of the inmates of those nursing homes. I think that families who have their elderly friends or relations in nursing homes should make sure that those people, whatever their choice of vote might be, are given the opportunity of lodging a vote for the parry of their choice. If they vote for a party other than the Labor Party, then that is their choice and I respect that. But it is a serious situation when many elderly people can have their votes manipulated in the interests of the Liberal Party. Perhaps in other places it happens in the interests of other political parties, but that does not make it right. It is a very serious state of affairs. 
The last matter I would like to raise is also an important one. It follows, to some extent, the matters that were raised by my colleague the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  who from time to time in this House has been exposing the association between the National Party and extreme right wing groups in the League of Rights. He has already canvassed that matter, I think, very ably this morning. I am concerned with the increasing degree of violence coming into the current Queensland campaign by people who are obvious supporters of the National Party, formerly known as the Australian Country Party. I have had some experience of this before; it is not a new thing. I think most of us would agree that the threat of violence usually comes from the right rather than the left. I repudiate violence from whichever quarter it comes. 
I have attended meetings with the former right honourable member for Melbourne,  Mr Arthur  Calwell, at which he was subjected to threats of personal violence. But in the current election campaign in Queensland, everywhere that the Prime Minister goes there are people threatening personal violence and hitting his car with posters depicting the Queensland Premier. It happened at Toombul shopping centre, Southport, Ipswich and last week in Cairns. I understand that this week the Prime Minister is going to central Queensland. Officers of the Country Party have telegrammed him that they cannot guarantee his personal safety. Members of the National Party- I notice there are not many in the House at the moment- might repudiate what I am saying. But if they wish to do so, let them explain how these people from one end of Queensland to the other are threatening physical violence to the Prime Minister and how it is that they are carrying posters with portraits of the Queensland Premier on them. Somebody must have handed them those posters. In the case of the demonstrations in south east Queensland, these people went from one place to another in buses. They carried bogus posters too, because some of the posters indicated that they were from organisations such as the Queensland Housewives' Association and the Country Women's Association. Those organisations have since written letters to the Queensland newspapers saying that they have no official connection with the demonstrations because they are non-political organisations. This is a campaign of violence and it is completely alien to the Australian way of life. 
If members of the National Party wish to repudiate what I am saying, let them explain how it is that these demonstrators are threatening violence to the Australian Prime Minister and those accompanying him, and why they are carrying banners of the Queensland Premier, referred to by my colleague as Jackboots Joh. Let them reply to what I have just said. Let every man in this Parliament stand up and repudiate any threat of intimidation or violence to the people in this Commonwealth of Australia. We have had, very happily, in this country a freedom from violence with one or two exceptions. It behoves every member of this House to keep it this way. I very much deplore the injection of violence into the Queensland election campaign. 
-The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  who has just resumed his seat concluded his address by talking about platitudes in regard to the defence forces retirement benefits scheme and pay and allowances. He might consider remarks in regard to these matters to be platitudes. I can only say, as one who spends some time in defence establishments, that one of the matters that has been raised with the members of the Labor Party's Defence Committee everywhere we have gone is appreciation by the members of all the Services of the very great improvements that have been made in Service pay and conditions under the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  The honourable member for Riverina might consider them platitudes but that is not the evidence we have had. In this matter of officer resignations we are suffering- experiencing might be a better word- the effects of the improved Defence Forces Retirement Benefits scheme. Many officers and men who retired from the defence forces in former times suffered very severely from the niggardly attitude of the former Government. 
-They had to. They had no alternative. They could not go out in decent circumstances. They were treated in a pennypinching way by the former Government not only while in the Services in terms of pay, but also when they retired in terms of the DFRB, war service homes and a great range of other factors. We hear some talk about job satisfaction. The experience now being had is not a new one. At the end of every war situation there are people who have served in the forces with great distinction and great credit to their country and also to themselves but there is nothing very much really that one can do at the end of such a war situation to give people the job satisfaction that they get out of the real thing. 
Maybe the honourable member for Riverina could suggest a war, perhaps a small war, that we could enter into at the moment. 
Let us consider what we can do in the way of job satisfaction. Firstly, quite a number of exercises have been conducted in recent times. During the past year the Royal Australian Navy has participated in 4 major international exercises and many other minor exercises as well. The Army has conducted 5 battalion scale exercises. Elements of the Army have been able to train in Hawaii, the Philippines, Canada, Malaysia and New Guinea. The Royal Australian Air Force has participated in international and joint Service exercises over Darwin, the Queensland coast, and in Malaysia and Singapore where we are continuing to provide the main air defence capability to help our neighbours move towards their own defence capacity. In exercise Kangaroo One held in June in Queensland and the Coral Sea areas forces were involved from Britain, the United States of America and New Zealand, as well as our own Services. Over 5,500 troops, including 1,500 United States Marines, more than 50 aircraft from 4 nations, and 38 warships took part in this major landmark in the development of our defence expertise. The varied skills which an officer needs to develop into a full professional requires wide and varied training. The satisfaction which an officer feels as his experience widens can be given only if the Government gives him the widest possible variety of training. After 23 years the country now has a Government which is prepared to see that exercises both in Australia and overseas cover the wide range of skills that occur in a variety and diversity of terrain. This training is required for the development of the professional officer in the modern world. 
The Minister for Defence dealt with figures relating to the retirement of officers but I think it is important to look at the other side of the coin, enlistment to defence forces. In 1973-74 recruitment for the 3 Services experienced some difficulties because of strong competition in the labour market. However, the Services did not experience difficulty in attracting satisfactory intakes of officers and specialists. Recruitment since June 1974 has increased very handsomely. For the information of honourable members I shall compare 2 years. In July 1973 the recruitment was 274 and in 1974 it was 380. The figure for August 1973 was 355 and for August 1974 it was 376. In September 1973 the figure was 196 and for September 1974 it was 341. In October 1973 it was 215 and in October this year it was 449. Therefore recruitment has increased over the period by 506, or 50 per cent. Recruitment is now running at record levels and the Government will have no difficulty at all in achieving the planned growth of 1,300 in Regular Army strength and its target of 31,500 by June 1975. It might also be noted in the area of officers that a record number of applications was received for officer entries to the Royal Military College at Duntroon for the year 1975. 
I mentioned before that the Minister for Defence had dealt with officers, but I think it is not inappropriate to mention other ranks in terms of re-engagement rates. Since the Government took office re-engagement rates have improved as indicated in these figures: In June 1972, under the former Government, the re-engagement rate for the Navy was 44 per cent. In the September quarter of this year the re-engagement rate for the Navy was 65 per cent. Under the former Government the rate for the Army was 69 per cent and in this year it was 72 per cent. Under the former Government the Air Force rate was 65 per cent and in the September quarter of this year it was 78 per cent. It has been pointed out, and I made the point myself, that these figures are against the background of a different labour market, but the fact remains that these reengagement rates have substantially increased. I hope that members of the Opposition, in bringing this matter forward, will not continue to try to exaggerate differences between civilian and military personnel in the re-organisation of the defence departments. When the Minister introduced the Tange report on the reorganisation of the defence group of departments in December 1973, the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  said that it was the logical extension of the process that started when the Morshead Committee report was brought down. This was 16 years before under a previous Government, which had done nothing to implement the recommendations of that report. The honourable member for Barker said:  . . although the government of the day, for what were considered to be very good reasons, which were not supported by me- I was one of the members who advocated the implementation of the Morshead Committee report- did not adopt the report. 
These are the facts. The present Government is doing something which was recommended to the previous Government 16 years ago. Inevitably in a range of departments as complex and important as Defence changes will take some time. I am not altogether satisfied with the progress that has been made. The facts of life are that the Minister was left with a task which should have been carried out 16 years previously by a former Government. I give him credit for the progress that has been made and I commend the personnel in the defence departments- not only the civilian personnel but also the military personnelfor the loyal way in which the overwhelming majority of these people have accepted the proposed re-organisation of the Defence Department as a good thing. 
There are dissatisfactions- of course there are- when changes take place. We have these dissatisfactions every time there is a reorganisation in a Public Service department, in a bank or for that matter in any segment of private industry. With something as important and as complex as defence it is inevitable that some of these problems will occur. But nothing is to be gained by trying to divide civilian personnel and military personnel in the defence forces. Indeed, everything is to be gained in bringing about this re-organisation in a proper way. The honourable member for Barker, speaking in his capacity as defence spokesman and representing the Opposition, welcomed this re-organisation. I take great exception to the fact that other people- I am not suggesting that either of the Opposition honourable members who has spoken today has this motive in mind- are trying to divide the civilian and military defence personnel on the basis of dissatisfactions that have been expressed. I have every confidence in the way the Minister for Defence is handling these difficult matters. We live in fairly difficult times, but the recruitment rate and the rate of retention of our forces indicates that the future of our defence forces is assured. 
-The purpose of this BUI is to provide for the disclosure of financial support received by Australian political parties, not from their own members, not from the little people in our society, to use a term that the late  Mr Chifley  used to use, but from powerful business interests or others in this community who might from time to time, given one election or another or given the issues that come before the people at those elections, place substantial amounts of money behind a political party in order to give it an unfair advantage, in order to wield real economic power. I am interested that in this debate on very sensible and pragmatic changes to the electoral law, on several occasions speakers on the other side have mentioned that they are concerned with the economic situation. They have admitted that they are the spokesmen for private enterprise, for free enterprise in the Australian community. The Government is not contesting any of those things, but I was interested in some comments made by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  who said that his central party organisation put no significant amount of money into his campaign. I think he said that it did not give him a brass razoo, and I would think that this is the position with many, if not most, honourable members. The finance which is raised for our local political campaigns is raised by the sacrifices of little people like the friend of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  in the poultry industry. It is raised by the people we know who belong to our party branches who perhaps run a small function in their home. They might run a small- doubtless illegal- raffle at a party branch, raffling some small thing to make a few dollars for the party. No one wants to inhibit that sort of political activity. It is the activity of the ordinary, decent Australian. Honourable members will notice that the limit on subscriptions to a political Party is $100. In Queensland the subscription to the Labor Party by a member of a branch of the Labor Party is $5 for the current year. 
We are trying to raise the standard of the Party in Queensland. Relatives of mine who, for reasons best known to themselves, are supporters of the Country Party pay a subscription of about $100 to the Country Party. Those subscriptions are perfectly legal. Let us cut the reality away from the myth in these areas. This BUI is not one which is designed to restrict the ordinary activities of decent Australian people, whatever their political persuasions might be, when they support the political party of their choice. It applies equally to the Australian Labor Party in that donations made by trade unions or business people to the ALP must also be disclosed. This BUI is not one which requires only the Liberal, Country, National or other non-Labor parties to disclose their sources of income. It requires all political parties to disclose their sources of income. 
The honourable member for Moreton referred to an occasion on which the wrong cheque arrived at the Liberal Party office. He said that he was embarassed at the amount. Let me remind him- he knows of it- that there is an arrangement between political parties when these things happen. The Labor Party participates in an exchange of cheques when, through some defect on the part of somebody's secretarial staff, a cheque goes to the wrong political party. Let me tell him that I have vivid recollections of an election campaign some time ago when the Labor Party in Queensland received a cheque for $20,000 which was made payable to the Liberal Party. When we exchanged it with the Liberal Party for the cheque which should have come to the Labor Party our cheque was for $5,000. I assure the honourable member that these accidents are not peculiar to the Liberal Party. They have been known to happen to the Labor Party as well. Without any doubt the vast forces of capital in this nation are behind the conservative parties on the other side. In the 1972 election campaign National Party candidates in Queensland were given up to $20,000 in some cases towards their local campaigns. Some candidates for city seats got $12,000 towards their campaign, plus what the party organisations raised locally. 
This matter was one of concern not only to any Australian who believed in democracy but also to the Liberal Party because National Party candidates were contesting Liberal Party seats. I note that the honourable member for Griffith quoted from a document which he attributed to the Labor Party. He said that it was an extract from a campaign report. Allow me to quote from a letter dated 19 December 1974. It is addressed to a businessman in the Federal Division of Griffith. It is signed by D. M. Cameron M.P., member for Griffith. It reads: 
I mention another point of concern. During the recent State election campaign I became aware of that the Country Party was  plundering  the Griffith electorate for funds. In fact one Liberal candidate, fighting a once called impossible State seat in Griffith, was informed, upon requesting financial help: 'We Ve just given $X to  Mr Y  from Party Headquarters.' 
The donor was rung by another man and was genuinely surprised and regretful when it was explained that not one cent of the donation would be given by the National/Country Party to the lone local non-socialist candidate, or the Liberal Party. 
Granted, there is no law to stop them obtaining funds from any place, but please ensure your friends who share non-socialist views fully understand the difference, because it's crazy when we have difficult, more sensitive, metropolitan Federal seats, for money to go straight into the blue ribbon country areas. Each electorate should raise its own finances. The Liberal  Party  is Australia's largest free enterprise and non-socialist Party, and the vote on 7 December confirmed this. 
Having pointed out that there is some dispute about the way in which money is raised, I might add that it was not always that the Country Party was opposed to the disclosure of political party funds. I quote from Hansard of 1 7 October 1 973. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is reported at page 2243 to have said: 
The Prime Minister and  Mr Daly  will no doubt be disappointed to learn that the Country Party has no concern at all about the proposal to legislate for the disclosure of the sources of political parties' funds. 
However, we will be proposing at least one amendment to the legislation when it is introduced, and that is that donations or subscriptions to party funds should be tax deductible- as are the union dues which help finance the Labor Party. 
Further, I am wondering why the disclosure requirement is to apply only from now, and is not retrospective. 
Perhaps the members of the Country Party who are present might care to do something about the views expressed not very long ago by their Leader. I am under a commitment to restrict my speaking time in this debate, but I would like to say that the Labor Party in the federal Division of Brisbane has never received any financial assistance at all from the central organisation of the Party in Queensland. We raise our money by the sacrifices of the little people who make up the Labor Party, the ordinary people who not only pay their party dues but by various means, by a self-imposed levy or by running small social functions or the like, raise the money that is necessary to fight election campaigns. This is the support from the ordinary people that ought to determine what the political balance is in this country. I venture to say that none of us would object to political fund raising of that kind. What we are concerned with is that where political parties are receiving vast amounts of money from mining companies as the National Party received in 1972 and doubtless later, the sources are disclosed. We have heard infinite talk about the wealthy trade unions behind the Labor Party. We are not afraid to disclose the sources of our funds. Why is it that those on the other side of the House, the members of the Liberal Party and of the Country Party, are afraid to disclose the resources and the faceless men who stand behind their political parties? 
-If any good is to come out of this discussion it is that the Opposition has quite clearly stated its support for the Government's policy of self-determination by the people of Portuguese Timor. I shall answer one or two of the points that have been made. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  said that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is on record on the question of allowing Indonesia to take over what will be the former Portuguese territory in East Timor. Let us just look at that statement that the Prime Minister is on record. When one looks at this record one finds that it is an article by Peter Hastings in an Australian newspaper- I trunk it was the Melbourne 'Age'. There is no question that the Prime Minister made any statement on what, after all, were confidential discussions between him and the  President  of Indonesia. So the Opposition again is, as it has done on previous occasions, basing its foreign policy on newspaper reports. In this debate, notwithstanding some emphatic denials from the Indonesian defence authorities, the Opposition's argument is based on newspaper reports. 
When I was listening to the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs, talking about relations with Indonesia- this very sensitive area of Australian foreign policy- I could not help thinking that his distinguished predecessor,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, made a contribution to Indonesian-Australian relations which has never been properly recognised in Australia. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party and I were members of a parliamentary delegation which went to Sarawak and Sabah at the end of Indonesian confrontation. We were very much aware of the fact that during that period when Indonesian and Australian troops were exchanging fire in North Borneo, when people were being killed, we were able to talk to the government of Indonesia because of good relations that had been established. The sad part about this discussion is that it is based on newspaper reports and could prejudice those good relations built up very carefully over the years. 
I wish that the honourable member for Kooyong had some concept of the responsible attitude of his distinguished predecessor who, if I might add in passing, was later elevated by his government to an important position on the High Court of Australia. This irresponsible attack, based as it is on unconfirmed newspaper reports, stands out in contrast with the bi-partisan attitude of the Australian Labor Party in opposition over many years prior to 1972 when we supported every effort made by the then government for better relations with Indonesia. We were criticised by the honourable member for Kooyong because we have no representative in Dili. I remind members of the Opposition that it was their Government that closed the consulate in Dili. The facts about the importance of Timor- its nearness to our shores- surely have not developed only in the last month or two; they have been facts that have been transparently obvious to every member of this House over a substantial period of time. It is a fact that  Mr Taylor,  a senior political adviser of the Australian Embassy, is on his way from Jakarta to east Timor now. It is not the first time that there have been representatives of the Department of Foreign Affairs there in recent times. Lest anyone hearing that he is on his way there today should think that this is some arrangement made since the honourable member for Kooyong raised this matter in the House, I state that these arrangements that  Mr Taylor  would go to Dili were made many weeks ago.  Mr McLennan,  a senior officer of the Australian Embassy in Jakarta, visited east Timor late last year and spent some time there reporting to the Government on these questions. 
The point was made with a lot of drama that a letter will be in the pocket of  Mr Woolcott  for the next 14 days as he perambulates around the States on his way to Jakarta. The truth of the matter is that he leaves for Jakarta on Thursdayin 2 days. That is just a difference of 12 days, not really very much!  Mr Woolcott  is going to Jakarta with great expedition. I made the point of the emphatic denials. The Australian Government, of course, has sought official confirmation of these denials from the Indonesian Government. Australia supports an act of selfdetermination by Portuguese Timor. I trust that it will be a meaningful act of self-determination. These people, notwithstanding the fact that they come from the multitude of people in the Indonesian Archipelago, have had the impact upon them of 400 years of Portuguese cultural influence and one cannot erode that. It is a matter for them to make the decision on what their future might be. 
The point was made that when  Mr Horta  came to Australia on the first occasion the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not see him. May I put the background to the House?  Mr Horta  at that time represented one of 3 nascent political parties in East Timor- Fretilin. I am happy to see that two of the parties- the two which support independencehave come together to make a more powerful political force. It would surely be wrong- this country is still a Portuguese colonyfor the Australian Foreign Minister to receive the representative of one of the political parties of that country. If a more broadly representative delegation had come to Australia from Timor no doubt the Foreign Minister would not have felt that he was compromising himself, the Government or the people in making a choice of selfdetermination if Australia seemed to be siding with one of the 3 political parties in Portuguese Timor. 
So it was proper for the Foreign Minister to exercise a discretion in a matter of this kind. I have mentioned that the Australian Government has a policy of self-determination. We recognise the great importance to Indonesia of this small colony. We know that the Indonesians would be concerned to see that forces hostile to Indonesia did not use Portuguese Timor as a base. Having looked at this problem myself I can see no evidence of that at this time.  Mr Horta  and the Opposition Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee also had discussions but I would not like members of the Opposition to create the impression that  Mr Horta  discussed these matters only with them. We of the Government members foreign affairs committee had several extremely long sessions with him in which he put his point of view very well. We wish him well in his support for self-determination. 
In contrast to newspaper reports, I wish to read 2 short extracts. One is from the report of the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Senator Willesee,  in Singapore on 5 December. 
The Australian position remained as he had expressed it in Parliament several times, that is to say the principle of selfdetermination should apply. He described the three options open to the Timorese people. Asked by  Mr Neat  - 
This is the gentleman from the Austraiian Broadcasting Commission-  to say whether Australia accepted the Indonesian argument that independence was not a practical solution, the Minister replied that this was a matter for the people themselves to decide. Australia wanted to be helpful and would certainly not meddle in Portuguese Timor. 
The second extract states the policy of the Australian Labor Party on foreign affairs as approved at the 1973 conference. In the last section on foreign affairs dealing with general principles and with the south-east Asian and Pacific areas, it states: 
The Labor Party will honour all Australian treaties and alliances which respect the freedom and security and the peoples in the treaty areas and their right to determine their own forms of government without external interference. 
That is still the position. The Australian Government supports self-determination. It will not interfere in the internal affairs of Portuguese Timor as it emerges to that state of selfdetermination It will not introduce into the Parliament irresponsible matters for discussion, however important, based on unconfirmed newspaper reports. Our relationship with Indonesia and our hopes for the future of Portuguese Timor are too important for irresponsible activities of that kind. 
-I ask the Minister for the Northern Territory: Is he aware of a published article about cyclone Tracy in which a former Darwin journalist,  Mr Noel  Harley stated that the Darwin death toll was between 250 and 300; that he,  Mr Harley,  helped local firemen load 52 bodies on a truck; that babies were blown from the arms of their mothers; that 8 police officers had gone missing and only one had been accounted for; and that men tied bandages around their legs and were limping in order to obtain priority seats in the evacuation? Are these statements correct and if so why have they been suppressed from the public in the official reports? 
I rise to support the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Bill 1975. 1 do this because I believe that the stage has now been reached in Queensland and elsewhere throughout Australia at which all discriminatory laws against the Aboriginal or Island people should be removed and at which the normal laws in this country that protect people who might in some way be disadvantaged could apply to them to no more or less a degree than they apply to other Australians. I want to express my regret and disappointment that the Queensland Government on this question has been so inflexible. I would like to make the point that the legislation that we put forward now is not merely an initiative of the Labor Government which was elected on 2 December 1 972. It also gives effect to the attitudes expressed and the negotiations made by  Mr Gorton,  the right honourable member for Higgins, and  Mr McMahon,  the right honourable member for Lowe, when each was Prime Minister of this country. 
It has been the view of Commonwealth governments for a substantial period of time that discriminatory laws that affect Aborigines should be removed. I regret that the Queensland Government has been very slow to remove some of these discriminatory laws. This legislation, seen against the background of the racial discrimination Bills and other legislation which the Government has introduced or proposes to introduce, is designed to remove from the Queensland legislation certain discriminatory laws or certain discriminatory sections of existing laws. I refer to the Aborigines Act of 1971, the Torres Strait Islanders Act of 1971 and to the regulations made under those Acts. The relationships between this Government and the State governments in relation to Aboriginal affairs have been complex. None of us pretends that the future of the Aboriginal people lies in the legislation carried by this Parliament. I would think that given the fact that we probably face a generation of legislation which positively discriminates in favour of Aborigines and Islanders, in the long term the needs of the Aboriginal and Island people of this country will be met by those Commonwealth and State government Acts and departments that service the needs and requirements of all of the other people in the Australian community. But that is in the future. 
In the short term this Government, succeeding as it did the Government before it, can take some pride and satisfaction from the fact that it has given a lot more urgency and a much higher priority to these things than the former Government. Leaving that aside, I state that we have all accepted in this House the fact that we need positive programs of discrimination in favour of the Aboriginal and Island people to overcome the disabilities from which they suffer in order that perhaps a generation from now all people in this country may be equal. We reject the concept that all people are equal today. One has only to go to an Aboriginal reserve to realise this. Members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs have been to Aboriginal reserves during the recent parliamentary recess. Anyone with an interest in Aboriginal affairs needs to go on to an Aboriginal reserve from time to time to realise the substandard and degrading circumstances in which many people live in every State of the Commonwealth and in some parts of our Northern Territory. There is a great leeway to be made up. It is not a question of money alone. It is very much a question of the personnel who are available. But the measure that we have before us tonight involves a question of law. I would like to make some reference to clause 3 of the Bill which gives the definition of the term 'Islander'. It states in part:  'Islander' means a person who is a member of the race to which Torres Strait Islanders belong; 
I would like to point out to the House that there are people on islands in the Torres Strait who are not members of the race to which Torres Strait Islanders belong and to whom the Queensland legislation, that is the Torres Strait Islands Act of 1971, applies. After Federation a number of people of Pacific Island descent were resettled in the Torres Strait and they live there today. They come under the umbrella of the Queensland legislation but they do not regard themselves as Torres Strait Islanders and they are not regarded as being Torres Strait Islanders in the Torres Strait. But they ought to be covered by the legislation that is before the House at this time. 
This is a fairly simple Bill. It deals with the management of property. It is designed to ensure that any property in Queensland of an Aboriginal or Islander shall not be managed by any other person without the consent of the Aboriginal or Islander concerned except insofar as the general law in Queensland for the management of property applies without regard to race, colour or national or ethnic origins of persons. In Queensland we have a Public Curator Office. It is headed by a person called the Public Curator and the Office has been in existence since 1 9 1 6. It is one of the notable achievements of the Ryan Government, the first substantive Labor Government in Queensland. It looks after the property of disadvantaged persons, people who by virtue of the fact that they happen to be in prison, ill in hospital, in a special hospital or by reason of senility or some other disability are unable to manage their own affairs. This paragraph puts forward a reasonable proposition that no person's property should be managed without his consent excepting in circumstances of senility or inability to determine his own affairs. It seems to me that this is a reasonable proposition to advance. 
Clause 6 ensures that the right of privacy of householders on reserves shall not be breached unless the same conditions apply as would apply if those premises were not on a reserve. I think one really has to understand what happens on an Aboriginal reserve, where the manager has wide sweeping powers and where- in Queensland - members of the so-called native police, who are by and large untrained people, act as an arm of the manager in the enforcement of discipline. The police are able to enter a house on a reserve if they suspect that the people there have alcohol or if they suspect that in that house is a person who is not legally present on the reserve. I will deal with that a little later on. 
This portion of the Bill enshrines in our law the principle to which all of us in this House adherethat an Englishman's home is his castle or, if I can transpose that, that an Australian's home is his castle- that no-one can enter a person's home without a warrant, in accordance with the appropriate State legislation, approved by a justice of the peace which suggests that some person who is wanted for a particular crime is there or that there is something that appertains to that dwelling which suggests that a breach of the peace is about to take place. We all know the common law. This provision is designed to ensure that people who live on Aboriginal reserves in Queensland have the same right to privacy as any other person in the Australian community. What member of this House could object to that? 
Clause 7 deals with legal proceedings and provides for an appeal to a magistrates court or elsewhere against a decision made by a court established for a reserve. Again, one has to look at the courts on the reserves. We all have been brought up with the concept of trial by jury under which a person in our society can be tried by his peers. The definition of trial by one's peers of course differs a lot from the thinking of the people who drew up the Magna Carta but the principle is sound and, notwithstanding that it has been enacted now for 760 years or more, it is one that commends itself to all the people of Australia who believe in freedom and liberty. 
If one were to look at the Queensland Aborigines Act of 1 97 1 or the Torres Strait Islanders Act of 1971 and the regulations made under them one would think that they provide an eminently sensible system of justice. I believe it could be an eminently sensible system of justice if people on the reserves were properly trained as justices of the peace to carry out their duties. Some of my colleagues and I have been on some of these reserves and have looked at the court records. We found that by and large the punishment inflicted is a fine of $ 10 or 1 4 days imprisonment. A person either gets off or has a certain time in detention if the offences under the regulations made under the relevant Act are regarded as having been committed. 
There is a problem here. It is not a simple problem. Some of these reserves are in isolated places. Under the protective legislation that was introduced by former Labor governments in Queensland people had the protection only of a visiting magistrate. But it was never quite as simple as that. If one lived on an island in the Torres Strait or an isolated reserve in the Cape York Peninsula or elsewhere one's access to justice depended on the extent to which the manager of the reserve would facilitate transport and the like for one to appeal to the visiting magistrate or to some other authority. I would hope that the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs properly trains the justices of the peace who serve as magistrates on the reserves. I believe that they should be properly trained in the concept of common law. I am a justice of the peace and I daresay that many other people here are. But most people who are justices of the peace regard their duties as signing documents and the like. Very few, like members of this House, would have taken the trouble to acquaint themselves with the law, which in certain circumstances they might be required to interpret. 
Against this background, where people are not trained to interpret the law properly, we need this clause which provides for the right of appeal. The previous Government, when my friend the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was the Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, supported Aboriginal legal services which were designed to ensure that Aborigines were protected when they were charged in any court in the nation. We have expanded that service and we all pay tribute to him for the foundation he laid. He would have been interested to hear some of the people at the meeting of the National Aboriginal Consultative Council in Townsville recently paying a tribute to him, which I endorse. But not enough is being done. There is a need for the proper training of people who serve as magistrates on the Queensland reserves. Given the fact that that proper training does not exist now, there is a necessity for this right of appeal because for various reasons people can be the subject of injustices. 
Time is creeping up on me and I cannot give examples. I could give examples of decisions that I know to have been made on Aboriginal or island reserves in Queensland which have been unjust. I must say in fairness that I have seen decisions where a person has committed an offence against the regulations which in the outside community would have incurred a much greater penalty. But that is not what this proposal buys into. The Bill before us gives the right of appeal. Surely no member of this House could oppose that. 
I turn now to the question of directions to work. One. often hears the charge made that Aboriginal people are lazy. I see no evidence of this in the Federal division of Brisbane. I think that the cross-section of the Aboriginal community is much the same as other people in Australia. People might disagree with me but I think it is true. In Queensland people who have grown up in the protective situation which existed until fairly recent years- actually until the late  Mr Jack  Pizzey was the Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs and later Premier of Queensland. As he was a friend of mine I express my sadness that he died so soon after becoming the Premier, because I think he would have made a great contribution. People on Aboriginal reserves lived on handouts. They worked in return for their free accommodation and their handout of food once a week and meat twice a week. They worked for 32 hours for no monetary return at all and then, if my memory serves me correctly, if they worked more than 32 hours for the other 8 hours of a 40-hour week they were paid 2s 6d an hour or and extra $2. That meant that an Aborigine who worked at Cherbourg could go into Murgon and in half a day could get more money in his pocket by doing a gardening job than if he worked for a whole week at Cherbourg. That is the system under which many of these people grew up. 
There are still regulations under the Queensland Acts which require Aborigines or islanders to perform work under the direction of the administration of the reserves. We say that these people should be paid award wages. We have set this example in the Northern Territory. We do not pretend that all the problems in the Northern Territory have been overcome. In many places there is a problem, particularly in central Australia, in actually providing work. That is not so much a problem in Queensland. In places like Woorabinda, which is a cattle station, and on many other reserves in Queensland there is work in forestry and there is work on the reserves. It is a much more simple situation than that existing in the Northern Territory. The Government believes that Aborigines or Islanders who live on a reserve should enjoy the same award wages, the same conditions of labour, the same terms and conditions of employment as any other Australian. What member of the House could disagree with that? In some places the task is to provide employment under those terms and, under its special work programs, this Government has sought to meet that need. One needs only to look at the amounts of asistance given to the States and local authorities under the legislation which the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh),  introduced into this House recently to realise how much money has gone into that program for creating positive employment opportunities. 
We have before us a very sensible piece of legislation based on conventions which this country has supported in the United Nations, based on principles which are applied in the broader Australian community. I can only regret the fact that the Queensland Government has been so conservative and inflexible in some of these areas that it has not met the needs ahead of the demand. That demand having been recognised by the previous Government under 2 Prime Ministers over a number of years and by this Government, and a period of more than 5 years having elapsed, no one can suggest that this Bill is an intrusion into State responsibilities. It is a fact of life that on both sides of this House we have tried to negotiate this position with the Queensland Government. In the absence of cooperation, this legislation becomes absolutely necessary if our integrity is to be preserved before the world, if our commitments to the Aboriginal and Island people of this country is to be maintained. I support this Bill with great enthusiam and I trust that honourable members on both sides of the House will support it enthusiastically, not only here but also elsewhere. This Bill is vital to Australia's standing in the world and to our own integrity as a nation. 
-I wish to make some comments on the matters raised by my colleague and friend the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  I was interested in his comments on clause 4, which states: 
This Act binds Queensland and Australia. 
This is a form of words because it is necessary to bind the Government of Queensland and the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia. This does not suggest that Queenslanders are not Australians. Indeed, there are 2 forms of Australians. I speak as a Queenslander. There are Queenslanders and there are other Australians, the people who wish they were Queenslanders. 
Notwithstanding some matters of controversy in Queensland at the present time, I do not know of any Queenslander who says he is not an Australian. The question raised by the honourable member for Angas was whether the wishes of Aboriginal and Island people living in communities were being taken into account and whether, in point of fact, they had selfdetermination. I have been following this issue for about 20 years. When meetings of the representatives of the Aboriginal and Island Councils, as they are now called, are held in Queensland to discuss matters of common interest it is said to them: 'By virtue of the Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders Act you live in these reserves. You are able to enjoy the places where you grew up. You have all these facilities available to you. If this legislation is destroyed you might have to leave these reserves. You will no longer have these services available to you '. 
The point has never been put to these people that there are alternative forms of legislation which would give them land rights, which would give them title to their own reserves and which would enable them to determine their own destiny. It has been extremely difficult to put that point of view to people. It is not my purpose to criticise  Mr Stewart  whose name has been mentioned by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  and by other honourable members here tonight and who has been referred to implicitly by the honourable member for Angas as representing Aboriginal people. I have never met  Mr Stewart.  I have followed what he has said at considerable length over a long time. He completely misunderstands what this Government is up to. The people who make these decisions are under the impression that without the existing Queensland legislation they have no title to their land. It is not this Government's purpose to bring that about at all. 
This Government very shortly will introduce legislation to give land rights to Aborigines in the Northern Territory. We hope that the Queensland Government and other State governments will introduce similar legislation to give their people the same right of selfdetermination. There is no disrespect for the legitimately expressed views of Aboriginal and Island people in Queensland. We only wish we had better communications with them. I pay a tribute to the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  who has gone to the Torres Strait and to other places. I know that he has a better understanding of their views. Having recently attended a meeting of the National Aboriginal Consultative Council in Queensland, I know that Aboriginal and Island people from Queensland have a better understanding of the views expressed here. I think we have to get away from playing politics about these things and get back to the much greater degree of common ground which exists but which many of us are not prepared to admit exists and certainly the 
Queensland Government is not prepared to admit exists. I completely repudiate the suggestion that this Government rejects the properly expressed views of Aborigines and Islanders. We have taken them into account with the utmost sympathy. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  -Order! I remind the honourable member that the clause is: 
This Act binds Queensland and Australia. 
I am sorry for departing to some extent in replying to the honourable member for Angas. I think I have made my point. There is no suggestion that Queensland is not part of Australia. Speaking as a person who was born in Fortescue Street, Spring Hill, in the heart of the Federal Division of Brisbane and in the heart of the capital city of Queensland, I say that all Queenslanders are proud to be part of Australia. We take into account that many other Australians wish they were Queenslanders. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 agreed to. 
Proposed new clauses 5a and 5B. 
I would like to make some comment on the clauses which deal with access to Aboriginal reserves. There are problems in this area. The House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs has looked at the situation in Arnhem Land. There is no doubt that the land-owning clansthey are not land-owning clans at this point of time but are clans that claim land and whose right to own land I trust will be recognised by legislation which will be introduced into this Parliament in the near future- take the view that they should have the right to approve or deny access of other Aboriginal people to the land they claim. They take the view that all of us take of the piece of land that we own in our particular suburb and on which we build our home and raise our family. 
In Queensland, at Cape York and other places, there are some Aborigines who are of substantial tribal background and who would make the same claims to tribal land. One thinks of the people at Aurukun, Weipa and other reserves in the Cape York area where a claim to tribal land is a very real claim and where people still practise ceremonies in relation to which it is the policy of this Parliament that they should be facilitated in practising them in the future. There are other situations on Queensland reserves. For example, let me take a place like Palm Island. Very few of the people who live on Palm Island would be the descendents of people who were born there. Most of the people who live on Palm Island were brought from vast areas of north Queensland and from other parts of Queensland. So there is a different sort of community there. I believe that the Aboriginal people who live there should have some substantial say in the extent to which people have access to their reserves or otherwise. But the Queensland legislation does not in itself provide for that situation. It provides that the Director of Aboriginal and Island Affairs or the managers of the reserves can make a decision of that kind and can countermand that decision. We face a situation in Queensland where the right of access or otherwise to the reserves in that State is exercised more by the administration than it is exercised by the Aboriginal people themselves. 
I must be honest and say that I have not received this kind of complaint over the last couple of years. But prior to the last couple of years I frequently had . Aboriginal people in my office just before the Christmas period who wanted to go back to Cherbourg to visit their relatives but who were denied a permit to go back there. I know that when the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  and other members of the House of Representatives Committee on Aboriginal Affairs went to Woorabinda the same complaint was raised with us. This gets back to a basic question of philosophy. The philosophy of the Queensland Government over a long period of time has been that the Aboriginal reserves are a temporary phenomenon and that the lot of the Aboriginal people is to be assimilated into the outside Australian community. I well remember the late  Mr Pizzey,  the former Premier of Queensland and a former member of the Legislative Assembly for Isis, saying when he first became the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs that the function of the Department was to work itself out of a job. The most serious indictment that I make of the Queensland Department is that it has created insufficient opportunities for Aborigines who receives a secondary education to have a meaningful career on the Aboriginal reserves in Queensland and play a proper role in the management of those reserves. . That is the background against which these amendments are made. If assimilation is to be a fact of life and if the Aborigines are to have a free choice as to whether they assimilate into the broader Australian community or stay in their own communities, it must be a 2-way traffic. The way in which the Queensland Government has seen the position it is a one-way ticket, and the one-way ticket is out. That is the reason why these amendments have been introduced. I make the point again that I think that Aborigines in these communities should have a substantial say in who comes in or goes out of their communities. I do not disagree with what the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has said. I myself have had some cases of the kind he mentioned. But for the most part it is not a question that the Aboriginal communities make these decisions. It is also a question of what the administration, the managers of these reserves and the Director of Aboriginal and Island Affairs determine. They have determined an attitude that discourages people from going back to the reserves at Christmas time and other times that are important to people- for example, birthdays and the like. These amendments are put forward as perhaps not the perfect answer to the problem but certainly to recognise the fact that the nonAboriginal administration should not be able to to take away from the Aboriginal people who have been born on these reserves, who have lived there and whose families have lived there, the right of entry or otherwise. 
I think the only satisfactory solution to this problem lies with the Queensland Government. It should vest the land rights of these reserves in a meaningful way in the Aboriginal people who live there. When this happens- it is the course upon which this Government has set in the Northern Territory- some of these problems will no doubt pass away. In the interim we have this amendment with which I do not entirely agree but which I will support because it is designed to overcome the situation in which the actual access to reserves or other areas is not in the hands of the Aboriginal or Island people who live on those reserves. 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the tribunal system which the Minister has set up to ensure that applicants for pensions and benefits receive fair treatment from his Department. Has the Minister received proposals that files of persons who receive pensions or benefits from his Department or who have applied for such should be available for access by those persons? Has he been able to give this matter serious consideration? 
I address my question to the Treasurer. Did the honourable gentleman fly to Queensland some months ago to discuss with the Queensland Treasurer such additional financial assistance as would be necessary to maintain existing levels of State services and State Government employment? Has the Treasurer seen statements made by  Mr Lee,  the Queensland Works Minister, and other Ministers, that due to policies of the Australian Government a number of State and local authority employees would have their services terminated throughout most areas of the State? Knowing as I do the competence of my former colleagues in the Queensland Treasury, can the Treasurer explain whether these Queensland ministerial statements are factual? 
I rise to support the motion moved by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  which relates to the proposed boundaries for the State of Queensland. I speak with some sorrow and sadness at the way in which the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  spoke. The honourable member, who has just spoken in this debate, in earlier days was  President  of the Liberal Party in Queensland. In those days he showed very great courage. He was one of the first people in the Liberal Party to look into the future and to see the Country Party threat which is now known as the National Party threat. In. those days he supported colleagues such as  Mr Porter,  the member for Toowong, and others in their attempts to overcome the National Party incursion. He comes here today as an apologist for principles of electoral distribution which he opposes in his heart, both in this place and in Queensland. 
I take it that the honourable member for McPherson, in speaking about how the proposed boundaries advantaged the Labor Party, was not reflecting on the Distribution Commissioners, because the facts of life are that the boundaries are drawn up in accordance with the legislation. I do not think anyone could dispute that. 
-In my view the Distribution Commissioners are beyond reproach. I have been in this Parliament since 1 96 1 , during which time I have followed electoral matters, as most of us do, with considerable interest. I look with interest at the amount of time that the Distribution Commissioners spent in going to various parts of the State to look at the developments which had taken place in order to determine what proposed boundaries should be put before Parliament. I think that members of all political parties should be generous enough to say that the Distribution Commissioners have carried out their task fairly and in accordance with the legislation. 
It has been alleged that the proposed boundaries advantage the Labor Party and it has been stated that the significant seats to look at are the marginal seats. Of course, those of us who represent marginal seats would agree with the latter statement. I am indebted to the Minister for handing me a list of marginal Labor seats which are worsened by the redistribution in Queensland and in other parts of Australia. In Queensland the seats of Dawson, Capricornia and Leichhardt are disadvantaged by the redistribution. The seat of Henty in Victoria, the seats of Evans, Eden-Monaro and Hume in New South Wales and the seat of Hawker in South Australia will be disadvantaged. If that is a redistribution designed to advantage the Labor Party and masterminded by the Minister at the table, something went astray very sadly. In regard to the Queensland redistribution, the facts of life are that it advantages and disadvantages each of the political parties. Take the Government or Labor Party point of view. I have given the seats held by the Labor Party which are disadvantaged. The seats of Oxley, Bowman and Brisbane are advantaged. The redistribution of the seat of 
Wide Bay, which formerly was held by the Labor Party, will advantage the Country Party and disadvantage the Labor Party. 
The honourable member for McPherson made the point that the present electoral feeling in Queensland was advantageous to the Opposition. Every Queensland member of this House knows that the 2 new seats proposed for the metropolitan area of Brisbane, which it was suggested should be called Glasgow and Fadden although our suggestion is that they be called Forde and Fadden- are seats that the Liberal Party would win at this point of time. So the Liberal Party is advantaged in those seats. 1 fail to see any seats in which the Liberal Party is disadvantaged, except that of Griffith. The National Country Party is advantaged in the seats of Leichhardt, Dawson and Wide Bay. The seat of Fisher remains a very safe National Country Party seat, as it always has been and always will be. Of course, the proposed new seat of Flynn- which is proposed to be called Kennedyis also a safe National Country Party seat. I cannot see how anyone can say that any political party is disadvantaged to the exclusion of other political parties by this redistribution. We are in the same position as were previous governments in regard to this redistribution. There are things that one likes and things that one does not like about the recommendations of the 3 honest men who were appointed to carry out the redistribution. The Government of the day is stuck with the proposals of the Distribution Commissioners, whether it likes them or not. Frankly, I could have seen a redistribution in Queensland which would have advantaged the Labor Party much more than the present redistribution does. I support the redistribution because it is a fair redistribution. 
There has been some controversy about the abolition of the seat of Griffith. I say this to the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron):  When the Liberal Party crossed the boundary of the Brisbane River in the State seat of Brisbane in a former redistribution, that was considered to be a statesmanlike thing to do at that time. But suddenly it is a terrible thing to do when it happens in a Federal redistribution. I understand the honourable member's feelings in this regard. I share his regret that the name of Griffith perhaps will not be used after this redistribution. 
-I have said that I do. I happened to serve on the Select Committee on the Naming of Electoral Divisions. Given the fact that the 
Distribution Commissioners have recommended that the present seat of Griffith be abolished, it would be quite foolish to carry the name forward. That would be confusing to the nth degree. All honourable members know that the name of Cook was used again in New South Wales at the 1968 redistribution after having been lost for some years. That is the normal practice; it has been followed for many years. I cannot understand the suggestion that there is no need for a redistribution in Queensland. If we take the figure for 1968 and for December last year we note that the number of electors in Queensland has increased by 254000-odd. In December 1974 the most populous electorate was McPherson where the member at that time represented 93 108 people. The least populous electorate was Maranoa where the member represented 46 3 1 4 people, about half the number in McPherson. I am not reflecting on my friend, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  but I think this is discrimination against the people in McPherson, the majority of whom vote Liberal, while the majority of people in Maranoa choose to vote National Country Party of Australia. This is something which no one should support, certainly no member of the Liberal Party. 
The new proposals which have come out show numbers very evenly stated. It is proposed that the largest seat, in terms of enrolment, in the State, will be Brisbane with 68 5 15 electors. The smallest seat was to be called Glasgow but it is proposed to change the name to Forde. It will have 58 537 electors. I am sure the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  will agree with this. I think he is pleased that the proposal takes away from his electorate the fastest growing area in the State. The low numbers in that seat are an indication of the population growth which will take place in the years immediately ahead. Then we come to McPherson which will have 61 710 electors and Petrie with 63 500. This recognises the increased growth in those areas. I think that by any standard it can be said this is a fair redistribution. The Melbourne 'Age' which is not always noted for its support of the Government today states: 
Liberals opt for electoral folly 
Liberals opt for electoral folly 
In determining their attitude to the proposed redistribution of Federal electoral boundaries, members of the Parliamentary Liberal Party had the option of adopting 2 approaches. They could have asked themselves: Is this redistribution fair and equitable and in accordance with democratic principle? To which the honest answer would have been- Yes! 
The article goes on to point out the fact that the Liberal Party is sacrificing the long term interests of the people who support it for the short term interests of the National Country Party which, at the present time, dominates the Liberal Party. As to this sweet harmony on the Opposition side that we are told about, let me quote from a submission to the Distribution Commissioners made by the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann).  He concluded by stating: 
We respectfully submit that neither the submission by the Australian Labor Party nor that of the Liberal Parry can pretend to be based on the needs and rights of country people. Nor can we accept that either submission can claim to be reasonable, just, or fair in its provision for representation of country areas. 
We would have no alternative but to oppose on every occasion distributions based on the inequities and the irrationality so much in evidence in these two submissions. 
I make the point that the word 'two ' is there. The National Country Party is saying that not only is the submission of the Labor Party unfair and irrational but also that the Liberal Party submission is unfair and irrational. I express my happiness with the proposal to commemorate the fine record of  Mr Frank  Forde, a former Australian Prime Minister, by naming an electorate in Queensland after him. I think it is very proper that our former good friend.  Sir Arthur  Fadden, is also commemorated in this way. It has been a practice for former governments to acknowledge the work of Prime Ministers by naming divisions after them. It can be argued, of course, that  Mr Forde  is still alive. He is a man in robust good health, in his mid-80s, retired from politics but active in public affairs. I am pleased to see this tribute paid to him in this way. Knowing the good work of  Sir Arthur  Fadden for Australia and for Queensland I make the same comments about him. I am pleased to see his name suggested for a new division. 
I close on much the same note as that on which I opened. I express great sadness at the way in which the Liberal Party is sacrificing principle on the occasion of this redistribution. Every State member of the Liberal Party in Queensland, every Federal member and every member of the Liberal Party Executive knows that the time is drawing near when they will have to take on the National Country Party in Queensland. In the Federal electorate of Brisbane which I represent Liberal Party members are in great anguish. One thinks of  Mr Lane,  the member for Merthyr. The National Country Party is putting out dodgers in the Liberal areas of that electorate seeking members, not for the purpose of defeating the Labor member for that seat- it has no Labor member in the State Parliament- but - 
-No. I suggest to the honourable member for Griffith that he cross the river some time and talk to the people who belong to his 
Party in my electorate. He will find out that they think the National Country Party has a rather more sinister motive than to unload me in establishing branches in their areas, whatever the result of that might be in the future. Every member of the Liberal Party knows that the time is approaching when the Party will have to confront the National Country Party in Queensland. But once again they are running away from it. Before the last State redistribution I told  Sir Gordon  Chalk that it was his last chance to become Premier of Queensland. He had to grow a backbone instead of a wishbone and do something about the Queensland State boundaries. But once again the Liberal Party went along with the National Country Party and honourable members know what happened in the last State election. 
-Well, let us look at what happened in the last State election. The National Country Party has 39 members in the House and the Liberal Party 30 notwithstanding the fact that the Liberal Party vote was some 30 per cent more than the National Country Party vote. If that is democracy then honourable members opposite do not use the Oxford English dictionary as I do. Every member of the Liberal Party in Queensland knows that it is only a question of time. It is more difficult for the Liberal Party to take on the National Country Party in the State where that Party governs. I hoped that this would be the time when the Liberal Party in this place and in the Senate would stand up in the interests of the Liberal Party voters whom they purport to represent. I tell the Liberal Party quite frankly that until it stands up for the democratic principles which it put in its submissions to the Distribution Commissioners but which it runs away from in this House it can only expect to see the Liberal Party vote in Queensland declining in the future. The Liberal Party is making its own nest and it will have to sleep in it. 
-I ask the Minister for Defence: Has his attention been drawn to a report in the National Times' of 25 May in which it is stated that the Secretary of the Department of Defence has issued a written directive in which the Defence Chiefs have been told to stick to the 'no threat' doctrine? Does the article also suggest that the Minister has still not received a full report on the implications of the continental defence policy as opposed to the forward defence policy adopted by previous governments? Can the Minister confirm the accuracy of these or other statements hi the article? 
I also should like to congratulate the Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass)  on his initiative and the initiative of his Department in bringing forward this legislation, which marks another very great step forward in the field of conservation. Without any doubt the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park which is to be established by this Bill will be one of the great marine parks of the world. I should also like to congratulate the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who leads for the Opposition on matters of this kind, on the very reasoned and reasonable speech which he made and on the support which the Opposition is giving to the Bill. It is true that the Minister is a most flexible and co-operative Minister; he is always willing to listen to suggestions and criticisms and to take them into account. I should like to express my support for those views which have already been expressed by my colleague and friend, the honourable member for Gwydir. 
I note that the boundaries of the proposed Great Barrier Reef Marine Park extend, as I take it, due east from Cape York, excluding substantial areas of the Torres Strait and going to the edge of the continental shelf somewhere east of the 200-metre line and again being terminated by a line somewhat north of Fraser Island. This area includes almost all of the Australian continental shelf in the Queensland area. I wonder whether the northern boundary has been truncated at that point because of a desire not to beg the question of boundaries in the Torres Strait area, but obviously there are areas to the north of the present proposed boundaries that should, at some time in the future, be attached to the park, given the different environmental circumstances of some of the islands immediately north of Cape York. One would hope that that is a matter that the Government, the Department and, indeed, the organisation set up under this legislation will keep in mind. 
It has been argued that this is a matter that should have awaited the challenges at present before the High Court on the questions of the law of the sea, the extent of the territorial sea, which government controls the seabed, and where the boundary of that control lies on the landward side of the sea. But the legislation excludes very carefully those areas which are under the control of the State of Queensland, so it is difficult to imagine that any decision of the High Court could affect the legislation. Whichever way the court decision may go, I think the Bill takes that decision into account. So, I think there is no obvious need for conflict with the State of Queensland, although I welcome the Government's proposed amendment, which will be moved later this afternoon, because it strengthens Queensland's involvement in the present authority. 
I would like to support what the member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  said about the need for close co-operation with the State of Queensland if the total objective is to be attained and also if the proper management of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park is to be effected. This Park encloses islands that are part of Queensland, many of which are entirely national parks or sanctuaries at present, and some of those islands, of course, also have on them areas which are tourist resorts, but together this is going to be a major national park complex, not only with the Marine Park established by this Bill but also because of the national parks on the islands off Queensland which this Marine Park will enclose, and so it will be necessary for this Marine Park to be administered taking into account what happens on those islands and what happens on the mainland. 
The matter of pollution has been mentioned and, of course, the Reef is very prone to pollution, as indeed marine life generally is prone to pollution. I, as a former officer of the Queensland Treasury Department, well recall that, as in those days we administered the Department of Harbours and Marine in that State, from time to time matters came before the Treasurer of the day dealing with pollution, including the effluent from sugar mills. Frequently there were instances of fish being poisoned in the coastal streams because of material from the sugar mills flowing into those streams. The successful growing of sugar cane involves using very large quantities of pesticides and fertilisers, and the effect of these is little known insofar as the marine environment is concerned. 
Then, of course, there is the existence of present and future industries which could affect the Reef. One thinks of the new Greenvale nickel refinery. I know it is under the control of the State authorities in Queensland, in terms of the Pure Water Act, and presumably there will be no pollution from that, but again it is a matter that comes under State control and it is important that the State government should be sympathetic to the purpose of this Bill. We have, of course, sewage from the major centres, the developing centres of population on the Queensland coast, and we have the local problems from the tourist resorts on some of the islands on the Reef which I have mentioned previously. 
Many of the tourist resorts are wellestablished. One thinks of Lindeman Island, where the Nicholson family has conducted a tourist resort for some 50 years. The Lindeman family is very very careful about environmental considerations, but in more recent times, in some of the other resorts, it has been obvious when one has looked at the area that not enough care has been given, and these are matters that are going to require considerable care and attention. Then, of course, there are the activities of State Government instrumentalities, and I suppose one would think of dredge spoil and the way in which the beaches around Magnetic Island have been despoliated over a large number of years, due to the dumping of dredge spoil from the port of Townsville. If all those matters to which I have referred are to be controlled effectively, they will require the co-operation of the State of Queensland, and so I join with the honourable member for Gwydir in underlining the importance of that co-operation. I hope that, following the passing of this legislation, a pattern of cooperation with the Queensland Government will be evolved which will ensure that this great Marine Park becomes a successful operation. 
I am pleased to see reference in clause 7 of the Bill to the matter of scientific research being taken into account, because it is a fact of life that comparatively little is known about the Great Barrier Reef, given the vast amount of knowledge yet to be disclosed. We have in Queensland an organisation not comprised exclusively of Queenslanders but, indeed, drawing membership from the other States and overseas. It is known as the Great Barrier Reef Committee. It was set up more than 50 years ago on an initiative of the Royal Geographical Society in Queensland, and in those early days it benefited much from the leadership of Professor H. C. Richards, then the Professor of Geology at the University of Queensland. The Committee has sponsored several major expeditions to the Reef and it is at present sponsoring another such expedition. For many, many years it has conducted a marine research station on Heron Island, and I know that this organisation, above all others, has proved itself in the research work that it has carried out on the Reef. 
I would hope that the Minister, when he is setting up the Great Barrier Reef Consultative 
Committee, would draw on the knowledge available to the Great Barrier Reef Committee in considering some, at any rate, of the appointments to be made to the committee. This organisation has already established itself and is well regarded throughout the world. It has shown a continuous interest in the Reef and it works in close co-operation with the University of Queensland, which now administers the marine research station on Heron Island. Of course, one could also point to the work being done at the James Cook University at Townsville and also, hopefully, the work which in the future will be done by the Australian Institute of Marine Science, which will be domiciled on the Reef close to Townsville. 
It is good to see that this area of scientific research is recognised in the Bill. It is extremely important, not only because of the value of the work itself, but also because of the way in which that research will be important for the proper management of the Marine Park. This is a day on which we have a very heavy program and I do not wish to take up much of the time of the House. I know that the initiative taken in the Bill will be well received in Queensland. I am sure it will be well received throughout the Commonwealth of Australia. The Great Barrier Reef is not only a scientific wonderland, it is also a great centre of tourism, an area of great beauty and an area where people go to restore their health- to get away from the rush and bustle of our cities and perhaps the environmental problems there. A balance has to be worked out between the conservation and protection of the marine park, the tourist industry and those other industries that already exist in the area. I believe that this Bill is a good piece of legislation, something that will be well received through Queensland and throughout Australia. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I wish to associate myself with this motion of condolence to  Mrs Milliner  and the Milliner family. I met  Senator Milliner  almost 30 years ago because of his interest in the Boy Scouts Association, as it then was. While the record of his public life and his political career has been placed before the House this afternoon, many of us will remember him principally as a family man. While we had a long association with him in political life, we shall remember his activities in public affairs outside the political arena. 
Bert Milliner was born at Kelvin Grove and lived in the Kelvin Grove and Newmarket suburbs of Brisbane all of his life. He was very active in public affairs in that district, mainly in association with his family interests. He was a former employee of the Queensland Government Printing Office and he was father of the chapel there. Prior to becoming a paid officer of the Printing Industry Employees Union he gave many long years of honorary service to that Union, which is now the Printing and Kindred Industries Union. He was extremely well regarded in his work place at the Queensland Government Printing Office.  His  trade union activities are well known to honourable members. He had a particular interest in apprenticeship and in young people. He was a member of the Queensland Apprenticeship Committee. I know from my own personal experience of Bert Milliner that he took a great interest in the problems that sometimes young apprentices meet in their careers. As the  President  of the Queensland branch of the Australian Labor Party he brought great integrity to that position. He was always a very fair and impartial man and he ensured that the best democratic traditions of the Australian Labor Party were upheld. After being elected to the Senate he represented Queensland members and senators on the Queensland Central Executive of the Party, of which he had, of course, a very long membership. He was active, as indeed other members of bis family have been, for very many years in the Masonic Lodge. He was formerly active in the Boy Scouts Association as secretary of a scout group. He was, until he died, active with the Churchill Trust. 
I am sure that many people in Brisbane, in callings and in areas of the community quite outside the Labor Party, will long remember Bert Milliner.  His  major recreation activity in recent times was his association with the Newmarket Bowls Club, of which his wife is  president  of the ladies section at the present time. I am sure that honourable members on both sides of the House will long remember Bert Milliner not only as a colleague, whether in Government or in Opposition, but also as a fine family man, a good citizen and a fine friend. 
-I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy: Is there any justification for the claim recently and frequently made by  Sir Gordon  Chalk, the Treasurer of Queensland, that the Minister is favouring coal producers in New South Wales at the expense of coal producers in Queensland? 
I am sure that honourable members on this side of the House were generally pleased when the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  was appointed to the high position of shadow Minister for Defence on the Opposition side of the Parliament. We know his work, which was widely recognised, as the Minister for the Navy. He carried out that position with great distinction. He handed over the Navy to his successor- an honourable member on his own side of the House- in good repair. Having made that expression of goodwill, one must join issue with the honourable member in relation to many of the matters that he has put before us tonight. First of all he raised the question as to whether there was some suggestion of departing from the constitutional proprieties of this country by removing the word 'Commonwealth' and taking out the word 'Royal'. I should like to direct the honourable member's attention to the Defence Act as it stands at the moment; the term 'Royal' is not used. That Act refers to the Army Act and to the Air Force Act. 
-Fine. When this matter was raised towards the end of 1973, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made a statement in London in which he pointed out that his advice was that it was proper for us to set out the arms of the Forces in the terms used in the Bill which is before us and that the use of the title 'Royal' was a matter for the discretion of  Her  Majesty the Queen. He made it clear that the Air Force of this country would still be known as the Royal Aus.tralian Air Force, the Navy would still be known as the Royal Australian Navy and the Army as the Royal Australian Army at the discretion of  Her  Majesty the Queen. From time to time it has been suggested- not only by my colleague, the honourable member for Moreton, but also by people like the Premier of Queensland- that there is some improper motive, some republican motive, some socialist motive in many of the things that this Government does, when no such motive exists. 
Obviously the Opposition is trying to distract me from some of the matters before the House. I should like to get back to them. The purpose of the Labor Party in this matter is well known. The Labor Party's policy is to carry out that sort of re-organisation of the defence forces to which this Bill gives effect. This has been stated for many years. The former Government also had a look at this situation. The Morshead report was presented to that Government some 18 years ago but was never made a public document. Was it because the then Goverment, the present Opposition, was too concerned with inter-Service rivalries to give the Australian defence forces a modern administrative structure? That report has never seen the light of day. 
There is an amendment before the House. We on the Government side will heartily oppose the amendment because this re-organisation of the defence forces has been under way for some time since the report was tabled in the Parliament in November 1973. It is not to say that it has not been available for scrutiny. Unlike the Morshead report which was presented to the former Government, this 1973 report was a public document. It was available throughout the Services, publicly, and to the Department. I speak only for the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence when I say that we sought briefings from  Sir Arthur  Tange and from  Sir Victor  Smith, the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee. We had those briefings. We discussed at some considerable length these matters which we would all accept are matters of great importance. If the Opposition defence committees have not been similarly briefed it is its own fault, because this Government, unlike the previous Government, has made available senior officers of the Department of Defence to brief Opposition Parties. 
-I should have thought that the Opposition would have been able to determine its attitude towards this Bill at this time after more than 18 months have elapsed. I would not have thought that the Opposition would have suggested that at this stage there is a need to refer the Bill for a further report, because this defence re-organisation is substantially under way and it is working very well. There were and there are people who do not like change. I suppose that none of us likes change. The individual Services were attached to their own Boards which were anachronistic and which go back to those times of classical antiquity that were mentioned by the honourable member for Moreton. But whilst those boards will exist until they are abolished by this Act, the fact is that the defence forces reorganisation is working well. All of us who have had contact with people in the defence forces know that those people recognise that the Australian armed forces are being given a modern administrative and command structure- a structure which makes clear the principle, which all honourable members of this House would support, that the forces are responsible to a Minister but that the military side of the structure, the command structure, is responsible not to a  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee but to a Chief of the Defence Force Staff. 
I would be prepared to produce a few. This nation and this Parliament owe a great debt to  Sir Arthur  Tange,  Mr Bruce  White,  Sir Victor  Smith and those people who were associated with them in the preparation of this most comprehensive report. I think that even those people who criticise the report would realise that it has been the subject of a great deal of work. I am unhappy that the legislation has been so long in coming before this Parliament. I am pleased that the former Minister for Defence, the former honourable member for Bass, had the opportunity of introducing that legislation before his resignation from the Parliament. It was, and will be so judged in the future, one of his principal achievements. 
What does this Bill bring about? It brings about an integrated organisation to replace 5 government departments and 3 boards of administration with a new structure. It takes away that inter-service rivalry where one service was able to play its case against the case of another service in terms of the provision of equipment, where sometimes one arm of the Services was able to obtain some advantage which prevented the flow of equipment to other arms of the Services. It means that on an integrated basis the problems of logistics and equipment will be looked at in a way that was not possible under the previous arrangements. 
It was clear that the Chief of the Defence Force Staff and the service chiefs under him are advisers on military matters to the Minister. They have the right of access to the Minister enshrined in this legalisation, which did not exist under the previous legislation. There has been some attempt to play off the military versus civilian aspects of defence, to suggest that this legislation is a means of involving a much greater civilian role in the administration of the defence forces. If one looks at the actual establishment as it exists today and as it is proposed in the Budget currently before the House, one sees that no such change has taken place. Surely it is a fact of life that the effective administration of the defence force requires a co-operative role between the serving personnel and all of those very competent public servants who have been associated with the Department of Defence and with the previous service departments which have been merged into the Department of Defence. 
I think this legislation is good legislation. I am sure it will stand the test of time. It brings to the Australian armed forces a modern administrative and command structure. It is not quite what was contained in the recommendation that was placed before the previous Government by Gen.meral Morshead but it meets a similar purpose. The previous Government was unable to grasp this task many years ago because it was unprepared to counter some of the conservatism that it knew it would meet among the individual arms of our forces. It is very much to the credit of  Mr Barnard,  our former Minister for Defence, that he was able to bring this about. 
I believe that in the years ahead the Bill that we are putting forward today will be regarded in the defence forces as an historic document. The honourable member for Moreton has pointed out the fact that this is a Bill designed to serve the needs of the forces not only in times of peace but also in times of war. I am sure that in the unhappy event of this country going to war again, it will be found that the structure that the forces are now having brought to them in this legislation will serve them as well in war as it will in peace. This organisation is basically working. This legislation is necessary to cut away some of the remnants of the former structure that still exists and which cannot be removed without a change in the law. It is necessary to enable a finalisation of those administrative structures to be carried out. It is therefore vitally important legislation. It ought not to be deferred. We ought to be able to get on with this function of Government administratively, just as the Government has had to clear up the mess left by the previous Government in the matter of the lack of equipment of the armed forces. 
Let us look at some of these questions, because essentially they were brought about by the structure that existed previously. As honourable members know, we are replacing Neptune aircraft that are approaching obsolescence. We have ordered a new tank to replace the Centurian. We are looking at many other aspects of re-equipment. These matters are being looked at from the equipment point of view and from the logistics point of view to give the Australian armed forces the equipment they need. This Bill seeks to give the Australian armed forces the administrative structure and the command structure they so badly need, and I commend it to the House. 
-It is very interesting to follow the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  in the debate on the United States Naval Communication Station Agreement Bill 1 975 which we have before us. Last night he was dealing with a Bill in which the test of loyalty was the association with the Commonwealth. Today we are dealing with a Bill in which the test of loyalty is the continuation of the defence association with the United States. The honourable member acted in the role of an agent provocateur. Although he said that the Opposition would not oppose the Bill, he was obviously intent on provoking difficulties for the Government by trying to persuade some supporters of the Government to accept the view that the Bill before the Parliament was not in accordance with Australian Labor Party policy. Although he was paying lip service to the ANZUS Treaty, he was trying to destroy that treaty. He was acting to provoke bad relations and ill-will between Australia and the United States. I do not think that any of these roles should commend themselves to the honourable member. 
He dealt with the Labor Party policy, and he said that at the time when this agreement was first negotiated in 1963 members of the Labor Party said that the base would be shut down. I was in the Parliament at that time, and I well recall the then Leader of the Opposition, the former right honourable member for Melbourne, the late Arthur Calwell, making it quite clear that in the event of a Labor Party government being returned this agreement would be renegotiated. If there is one thing that stands out above everything else, it is that this is a responsible Government. We do not repudiate agreements made by our predecessors. It would not be in Australia's interest that we should do so. It would not be in accordance with the Labor Party platform or with the importance which the Labor Party places on the ANZUS Treaty that we should do so. The then Leader of the Opposition, the late Arthur Calwell, and the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made it quite clear in policy speeches and on other occasions that the agreement would be renegotiated to conform with the Labor Party platform, and of course that is what has happened. Perhaps I should read those parts of the Labor Party platform. It reads: 
The Labor Party seeks close and continuing co-operation with the people of the United States and New Zealand to make the ANZUS Treaty an instrument for justice and peace and political, social and economic advancement in the Pacific area. 
I think one should say that the Labor Party has always been a strong supporter of the ANZUS Treaty. Although we would all pay a tribute to the work of  Sir Percy  Spender in negotiating the ANZUS Treaty in 195 1, it was the former Labor Government through  Dr Evatt,  the then honourable member for Barton and Minister for External Affairs, who tried in the post-war years to persuade the United States to enter into a Pacific pact. The record is quite clear. It was the Labor Party's intention that such a pact should be brought about. The then Minister for External Affairs worked very hard, but in those immediate post-war years when the United States was preoccupied with events in Europe- of course they loomed very seriously in those days- the climate was not right. In the circumstances of the Japanese peace treaty, pacts were entered into between the United States and the Philippinesthe so-called PHILUS Pact-and between the United States, Australia and New Zealand- the ANZUS Pact. So the climate became right. 
I know that  Sir Robert  Menzies in his book  Afternoon Light  said that he took great pride in the fact that he was the Leader of the Government which negotiated the ANZUS Treaty. When that Treaty came before this Parliament it was supported by the Australian Labor Party. I do not recall, in my time in the Labor Party since 1946 and in this House since 1961, that any responsible leader of the Labor Party has attacked the ANZUS Treaty. It is extremely valuable to us in Australia not only because of the fact that through the due constitutional process the United States would come to our aid or we would go to its aid in the event of an attack on our territory, or on our sea vessels, or on our commercial aircraft, or on our other aircraft for that matter, but also because of the intimate association with the United States which this Treaty facilitates. It is also valuable because of the regular consultations that take place and the frank exchange of views on a basis of confidentiality. This indicates what the ANZUS Treaty has meant to Australia in terms of our access to American weapons of war, in terms of American intelligence and the technology that has become available to us through the presence of American installations on our soil, and in terms of the interchange of information which takes place not only between serving defence personnel, but between defence scientists and the like. So I would hope that nothing that anybody in this House does tonight does any damage to the continuation of the ANZUS Treaty which is vital as far as the people of Australia are concerned. It is against that background that this Bill comes before the Parliament. 
I think that all members of this Parliament and certainly members of the Government should express their appreciation for the work of  Mr Marshall  Green, the former United States Ambassador to Australia. I would not disagree that when he was appointed as Ambassador to Australia, the position between Australia and the United States was a fairly sensitive one as far as foreign affairs were concerned. I think we would all agree that  Mr Marshall  Green worked in the interests of his own country and ours to bring about a better understanding of the position of the then newly elected Australian Government. We owe him a great debt. I think we ought to state publicly the good work that he did not only for his country but for ours. 
So it was that our Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence went to the United States to discuss the operation of the United States Naval Communications Station. This agreement was entered into in 1963 and it had 25 years to run. Commensurate with the fact that the United States regarded the station as vital to its communications with its naval vessels in the Indian Ocean and elsewhere, the agreement which is enshrined in this Bill takes the situation of that station as far as it could be taken by negotiation to meet the requirements of the Labor Party platform. 
I think it is fair to say that the presence of any installation on our soil to some extent impairs our sovereignty. Some people could take an extreme point of view and say: 'Well, away with all these installations'. We would live in a fairly lonely world if that were done. It is probably true to say that the agreement will not meet the wishes of all the people. Certainly it will not meet the wishes of those who might wish to see these installations removed. But there is one thing that is certainly true: This Bill provides that there will be no alteration until 1988 in the terms of the agreement relating to the United States Naval Communications Station at North West Cape which is absolutely vital to the continued association of Australia and the United States within the ANZUS Treaty. I, together with other members and the former member for Bass and former Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  was a member of the Labor Party's Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence when these matters were reported to the Party. There was unanimous agreement that the arrangement which increased Australia's control over that radio station was a very satisfactory one. 
Honourable members will recall the second reading speech of the then Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  when he introduced this Bill. It referred to the fact that increased numbers of personnel had taken up duty at the station. The Minister said: 
An Australian Deputy Commander took up duty at North West Cape on 19 July 1974 while a Royal Australian Navy contingent of 47 officers and men will be posted to the station before the end of next month. Fourteen of these will man the Australian communications centre. 
The new agreement makes this centre a joint naval communications centre in a way which did not apply in the past. I think it is a very sound piece of legislation. It certainly is very much in the interests of Australia. I hope fervently that in this debate honourable members do not try to exacerbate differences about this station in the Australian community. There are divergences on matters like this just as there are divergences on matters without a defence significance. There are divergences about the proposal to set up an Omega station in Australia for navigational purposes. It is important that these matters be discussed intelligently and without rancour in this Parliament and in the community. Discussions on differences that may have existed in the Labor Party have taken place and members, probably almost without exception, are satisfied with the arrangement that has been brought down. 
I commend this Bill to the House. I believe that the naval communications station, overtaken in some ways as it has been by more recent developments in communications, still has a useful role to play in the future. It is a vehicle of communication not only with the vessels of the United States of America but also with vessels of the Royal Australian Navy. The presence of Australian Service personnel at North West Cape in addition to the presence of Australian civilians working in the station make it a joint effort in a way which did not apply under the agreement of the previous Government. I think I should say about the agreement entered into by the previous Government that it paid scant regard for Australian sovereignty. The debate that took place back in 1963 greatly neglected some of those issues. I thought that the previous Government sold out too cheaply at that time in the sense that it was not prepared to take into account Australian sovereignty. I think that the Bill before us now does that as well as it may be done at the present time. All of us on the Government side of the chamber look forward to a continued happy association with the United States within the framework of the defence treaty, particularly the ANZUS Treaty which is such an important part of the Labor Party platform. 
-Today is 27 August 1975, the day that honourable members in this House and elsewhere and the people of Australia- in particular the people of Queensland- could well take note of because today democracy was pack raped in the Queensland Parliament. Some five or six weeks ago in this House, as in another place, we paid tribute to our late colleague,  Senator Bert  Milliner, whose untimely death had taken him from this scene. Following his death it became a responsibility of the Queensland Parliament to replace  Senator Milliner  in accordance with a well-established practice that his replacement should come from the Australian Labor Party. The Premier of Queensland wrote to the Leader of the Opposition in the State Parliament and to the Secretary of the Australian Labor Party in Queensland asking for a panel of 3 Labor Party nominees from which the Queensland Legislative Assembly could make a choice. That choice was programmed to take place today. In the Queensland House today the Labor nominee,  Dr Mai  Colston, formerly a Senate candidate on 2 occasions, was rejected by 62 votes to fifteen. Allow me to take honourable members some time back into the past to indicate the way in which, as I have said, democracy has been pack raped today in Queensland. 
The Australian Labor Party selects its candidates for the Senate on a system of Senate electoral college. For the House of Representatives and for State and municipal seats, normally it selects them by a system of plebiscite. So the Queensland Central Executive, given the fact that  Dr Mai  Colston had submitted his name to the people on 2 former occasions as a Senate candidate, felt it wise to select this man who had, as I have said, twice previously submitted himself to the will of the people. At the last election about 5000 votes prevented his being elected to the Senate. Consequently the Labor Party felt that it had an obligation to select a man who was, if I might use the term, next cab off the rank on 2 previous occasions. The Labor Party felt that it should have the right to do just as the Liberal Party on 2 previous occasions in Queensland had done and determine who should take the place of the deceased senator. One could argue perhaps that the State Parliament had the right to ask for a panel. If that point of view is put, why is it that that demand is made of the Australian Labor Party but not of the Liberal Party? 
I well recall September 1962 when  Senator Max  Poulter, one of the most able people ever elected to this Parliament, passed away. Sadly he was never able to take his seat in the Senate and Australia was robbed of a person of great talent and ability. On that occasion we had the same Country Liberal Party Government in Queensland. When the Labor Party nominated  Mr Arnell  the then  President  of the Waterside Workers Federation, his nomination was rejected by the Queensland Legislative Assembly. The Labor Party then nominated  Mr George 
Whiteside, later  Senator George  Whiteside, who was elected to the Senate in his place. There was great resentment in the Australian Labor Party because the Party itself was not able to select its own candidate, the man to take the place of the Labor senator who had passed away. If honorable members subscribe to the view that there should be a panel, why was it in the years between the death of  Dr Poulter  and the decision today, on the 2 occasions when Liberal senators from Queensland either passed away or resigned only a single nominee was required from the Liberal Party? 
Let me take the House forward a little to the time when Bob Sherrington, a man greatly admired on all sides of the House and a Liberal senator from north Queensland, passed away. The Liberal Party was asked for a single nominee and it nominated Bill Heatley, who came from the Gold Coast, and was formerly of north Queensland. He served in the Senate with distinction until he was defeated. He subsequently served in the Queensland House. I am not buying into the rights or wrongs of any of these people. I am merely saying that when a Liberal senator died the Queensland Government- the same Country-Liberal Party Coalition that governs in Queensland today- asked for a single nominee and accepted that nominee. It did not ask for a panel.  Senator Heatley  was appointed to the other place where he served with distinction. 
Coming along a little bit further in time, following the 1969 election the previous LiberalCountry Party Government in Canberra decided in its wisdom to appoint  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin as High Commissioner to New Zealand. I think that appointment was well received. All of us know the distinguished service that  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin gave to this Parliament and to the people of Australia. The Labor Party has in its hands copies of the letters that went to the Liberal Party from the Premier of Queensland at that time. The premier of Queensland asked the Liberal Partry for a single nominee to take the place of  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin.  Senator Neville  Bonner-  Mr Neville  Bonner as he was then- was nominated by the Liberal Party in Queensland and his nomination was accepted. 
I agree. May I say that I was pleased to see Neville Bonner selected. I considered that his Party owed him an obligation as the man who had submitted himself to the people and who would have been elected next if his team had polled more votes. He is a man who made great sacrifice in order to come into this Parliament. I considered that the Liberal Party owed him an obligation in the same way as the Labor Party owed  Dr Colston  an obligation. But why the difference in standards? Why on 2 occasions was the Liberal Party asked for a single nominee? Why on 2 occasions was the Labor Party asked for a panel? Comment has been made about  Senator Bonner.  Look at the parallel position. He was the last man on the ticket. He had submitted himself to the people. It is not as if there was dragged out of the hat some person who was obscure, who had never been in public life or whose record was not well known to the people. There were none of these things. There is a great deal in common between the situation of both  Senator Bonner  and of  Dr Colston,  but there is nothing in common about the way in which they were treated. 
Today in the Legislative Assembly in Queensland the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Tom  Burns, submitted  Dr Mai  Colston as the Labor Party nominee. That nomination was rejected by 62 votes to fifteen. There were 11 Australian Labor Party members who supported  Dr Colston's  nomination. They were supported by  Mr Ed  Casey, the Independent member for Mackay; by Bill Kaus, the member for Mansfield; Colin Lamont the member for South Brisbane, and Bill Hewitt, the member for Chatsworth. Three Liberals stood for what I would regard as Liberal Party principles and voted with the Labor Party on this question. 
During the debate in the House attacks were made on  Dr Colston's  character. It is an interesting state of affairs. He has been attacked under privilege. He has been a member of the Queensland teaching service under a CountryLiberal Party Government. I doubt that he served under a Labor Government. He has been an officer of the Police Department, that is, a civil servant in the Police Department. He has served in the Queensland Public Service. He joined the Citizens Military Forces and has commissioned rank in the CMF. If my memory is correct, he was appointed to the intelligence section of the CMF, and he was appointed to that position under the former Liberal-Country Party Government. 
I hope that all honourable members take note of this serious situation, because it is true to say that today in Queensland democracy was pack raped and the people of Queensland, in fact the people of Australia. not only the Labor Party supporters but the ordinary decent person who likes to see politics played within the rules of the game with fair play and respect for the deomocratic principles on which this country's survival has depended in the past and may depend in the future, should be concerned. The 62 people who voted to reject  Dr Colston's  nomination today voted against every principle upon which democracy in this country is based. 
I listened with great interest, as did other members on this side of the House, to the speech made by the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  He sought to belittle the motion which is before us by pouring scorn on the way in which it was set out and by claiming that it was a waste of time and a pious motion. He sought to belittle the actions of this Government insofar as its support of well established conventions are concerned. In the first place, I think one should draw his attention to the fact that the motion before us at the moment is copied from a motion moved in the Senate on 12 February this year by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  and accepted by the Senate.  Senator Withers  moved that motion in precisely the same terms as the first 2 paragraphs of the motion before us today. So the Leader of the National Country Party is condemning a motion moved by one of his colleagues on a previous occasion and he regards it as a waste of time. That motion appears on page 505 of the Journals of the Senate for 12 February 1975-1 am not sure whether it was a Wednesday or not. 
The Leader of the National Country Party raised a number of other questions. For example, he said that the Queensland Premier had reaffirmed his decision to appoint a member of the Australian Labor Party to the Senate. But the most important point is that he did not say that whoever he proposes to appoint will be a person of his choice and not necessarily the choice of the Australian Labor Party. The Leader of the National Country Party said that the Labor Party had demanded a panel of nominees on previous occasions. I have gone through the record contained in  Australian Senate Practice  and have found that I have been in the Parliament on every occasion since 1949 when a replacement of a senator from Queensland has taken place. 
The first was caused by the death of  Senator Max  Poulter on 19 September 1962, as I recall. On that occasion the Government of Queensland rejected the Labor nominee,  Mr Arnell.  A second nominee was put forward,  Mr Whiteside.  He was accepted and became  Senator Whiteside.  The next occasion when a Senate vacancy occurred in Queensland would have been when  Senator Sherrington  died. He was replaced by a Liberal senator, the Liberal Party being asked for one nominee, which they submitted. The third occasion was when  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin resigned to take up a diplomatic post. She was replaced by the present  Senator Neville  Bonner. The Liberal Party was asked for one nomination, it submitted one nomination and that was accepted. 
It was said by the former Leader of the Opposition in the Queensland Parliament during debate that if the Queensland Government were to be consistent, having asked for a panel of nominees on a previous appointment of a Labor senator, it should have asked for a panel of nominees when a Liberal appointment was sought. But the Labor Party said that it accepted the fact that the precedent of a single nomination had been honoured when  Senator Sherrington  died and was replaced by  Senator Heatley  and, consequently, every Labor member in the House voted for the Liberal Party appointee. 
The Leader of the National Country Party raised the matter of  Senator Murphy's  resignation and he defended the quite disgraceful attitude and actions of  Mr Lewis,  the Premier of New South Wales. The Leader of the National Country Party said that  Senator Murphy's  resignation was a different situation. He said that the vacancy in the Senate was not caused by death but by an appointment designed to advantage the Australian Labor Party. There are precedents for that and, after all, that is what this debate is about today. It is about the question of precedent and how important it is that this convention be upheld. It is not so many years ago that the former  Senator Gorton  retired from the Senate in order that he might contest a vacancy to enter this place to become the Liberal Prime Minister of Australia. He was replaced- I concede that it was by a non-Labor government- by  Senator Ivor  Greenwood. 
If honourable members are going to argue that  Senator Murphy's  resignation was to advantage the Australian Labor Party, surely they should argue, in fairness, that  Senator Gorton's  resignation was to advantage the Liberal Party. The Victorian Government of that time supported the convention. If that proposition is advanced it means that in the future no senator who wants to offer himself as a candidate for the House of Representatives, or as Prime Minister, for example, if he came from a State governed by a government of the opposite persuasion to his own, would be able to be a candidate because the convention would be broken. The House, the Parliament. the people of Australia could be robbed of the services of a person of great talent, and that is really what it is all about. 
We are not looking only at the situation of today. That is important to us. Of course it is important to us. It is not a matter of life and death in the Senate at the moment. The Labor Government does not have a majority in the Senate. The previous Government for many years did not have a majority in the Senate either. But there are occasions- this is the importance of this motion- and there could be occasions when the political balance in Australia, the wishes of the people as expressed on the last occasion at the ballot box, could be subverted by a decision of a State government. That is surely an important question. In my time here the Government with the smallest majority was the Menzies Government elected in December 1961. It had a small majority in this House. There could have been an accident involving the death of several senators. I put it to honourable members that we all travel in substantial numbers in aeroplanes, perhaps not quite in the same standing as we used to have. A plane crash on a Friday morning would create this situation in many parts of Australia. It could be an issue for any Government in the future. If a Labor government following the 1961 Federal election had decided to be malicious in such circumstances it could have tipped the political balance against the wishes of the people. That is a very serious situation. 
There have been 26 occasions since 1949 when casual vacancies have occurred in the Senate. On 9 occasions since 1949 State governments of the opposite political persuasion to the Federal Government in power have had to make that decision. Until the precedent created by  Mr Lewis,  the Liberal Premier of New South Wales, early this year, there was never any doubt that the State governments would accept the nominee of the political party from which the deceased, retired or resigned senator came. I shall deal with some of the cases which are worth consideration where a different decision could have been made. Take for example the death of  Senator Hannaford,  a much respected Liberal senator from South Australia. In 1967 there was a Labor State Government in South Australia.  Senator Hannaford  was replaced by  Senator Condor  Laucke. This occurred not long after the 1966 elections when the Vietnam war was a great issue. The nation was divided as probably it has not been divided before.  Senator Hannaford  was out of step with the views of his political party on the Vietnam war. I think we aU admired his personal courage in indicating that he did not support his political party in some of these matters. The opportunity was there for the Labor Government in South Australia had it so chosen, not to replace  Senator Hannaford  with a Liberal senator. On the contrary, the Labor Government of South Australia upheld the convention and appointed  Senator Laucke. 
A second example is the one that I have dealt with already, that is, the appointment of  Senator Greenwood  in place of  Senator Gorton.  That was an appointment of a Liberal senator made by a Liberal government. The point I want to make in this case is the point I wanted to make before, that this involved a resignation made very much to advantage the Liberal Party in this place. The next appointment that I wish to raise is the appointment of  Senator Bonner.  I do that by making the same comparison.  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin resigned and the Queensland non-Labor Government appointed  Senator Bonner.  Of course New South Wales always upheld this convention until quite recently. When  Senator Jim  Ormonde died early in 1970 he was replaced by  Senator Jim  McClelland. That replacement was approved by a non-Labor government. 
It is easy to say that this is a pious motion, that it does not mean anything. We will know the validity of what  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and his Government in Queensland propose to do when the votes are counted some time later today. It has been reported that some of  Mr BjelkePetersen  's colleagues have been canvassing former members of the Australian Labor Party, defeated candidates from the last State election and the like in the hope of being able to get one of these people to accept nomination by the Queensland Parliament to come here as a senator. There is a clear principle in this, that a person who comes here as the representative of a political party can only be a person who has the current endorsement of his political party for that position. 
Consider what would have happened in the South Australian situation if the Labor Government of the day had appointed a member of the Liberal Movement to take a seat in this Parliament, a person who had a former record of association with the Liberal-Country League in South Australia, a person who may have been a Minister of the Crown in South Australia. If such a person had been appointed in those circumstances, would the Liberal Party members have admitted him or her to their Party meetings? Every honourable member in this place knows that the answer is no. This is a debate very much about what democracy is all about. We have in our Constitution certain requirements laid down in law, quite inflexible, with which every Australian Parliament and government must conform. We are also the heirs to the British tradition. If honourable members look at the table they will see that there is a copy of May 's  Parliamentary Practice  lying on the table. We follow the precedent that was created by the Liberal governments in the early days of this century when they curbed the power of the House of Lords on money Bills. Such a provision is not written in the Constitution precisely, although it is written that money Bills can originate only in this House. It is a convention that has been upheld until quite recently- last year- when it was broken by the Opposition, that the fate of a Budget or money Bui is determined in the House of Representatives. 
The issue before us today is very important. I hope that honourable members will look at it on a non-partisan basis. Next time there is a death of a member of Parliament it could be on the Opposition side, it could be of a senator who comes from a Labor held State. That Labor government I have no doubt would uphold the convention. The fact that action taken earlier this year in New South Wales and under consideration again in Queensland could bring that convention into question is a serious matter for all members of this Parliament. 
-I speak with a great deal of interest and concern in the debate on the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I follow honourable members who have already spoken in the debate tonight about the philosophical matters of Aboriginal affairs. I think that those of us on both sides of the chamber who have some concern for Aboriginal affairs do not make a judgment on the achievements of government in the area of Aboriginal affairs on the basis of the money provided for in the estimates. After all, that is an earnest of the Government's preparedness to place resources behind the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, but I think that all of us are aware of the fact that it is a case of men and women as well as resources. It is a case of obtaining the enthusiastic co-operation of the departments in the State. I am referring not only to the departments of Aboriginal affairs or their equivalents but also to all those other instrumentalities involved in Aboriginal affairs. I think any honourable member can take some considerable satisfaction in saying that involved in Aboriginal affairs is the substantial support of the Australian Government. One thinks also of the State departments through which programs in health, education, housing and, indeed, Aboriginal affairs themselves are financed. 
When one looks at the estimates one sees that there has been step by step, year by year, substantial progress made in the amount of money actually being channelled to the States. Another aspect of the estimates shows the increasing amount which is being channelled through organisations which are composed of Aborigines and which are Aboriginal controlled. This is a slow process in some areas but it is a very worthwhile process. I think that aU of us reject the concept that we should be paternalistic in the programs that are financed by the Australian Government to help Aborigines. We believe rather, that we should encourage initiative by the Aboriginal people, that we should help them where they need back-up resources, that they should know where they show an initiative they will receive a sympathetic response from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson). 
This is an area where there is a good deal of risk capital. The media is fond of turning the searchlight of truth or at least illumination on those matters where it can be suggested that there is some waste of public expenditure or where it seems that there has been some discrimination in favour of Aboriginal people which seems to be unfair vis-a-vis other Australians. But leaving aside the more spectacular areas, the mistakes which I think all of us will admit have from time to time been made, there is a basis of very solid achievement within this program, real achievement in terms of approximately 12,000 children of Aboriginal descent now at secondary schools compared with the mere hundreds attending such schools before the program of Aboriginal secondary education grants was established; the substantial number of Aboriginal people who are now living in better housing than they were before; the numbers of Aboriginal children who are now receiving a better education in pre-schools, and schools whether those schools be conducted through the State system or whether the children go away and board; and, of course, the Aborigines who are assisted through Aboriginal enterprises. 
If there are any failings in this area they are failings in public relations. As I travel through my State of Queensland- not altogether a sympathetic State in some areas of Aboriginal affairs- and elsewhere in Australia, I find that there is a very widespread misunderstanding of aU these programs. I do not think there is any great difference in philosophy between the present Government and its predecessor but I do think that there is an increased pace; there is a greater amount of money made available for the program. But people throughout Australia do not really understand that we are trying to give Aboriginal people in this generation special advantages and that we are trying to discriminate in their favour at this time in order that at some time in the future all Australians might be equal. 
I have the honour of being the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. I pay a tribute to my colleagues on the Opposition side of the chamber as well as on the Government side of the chamber for the honest and non-partisan way in which they look at Aboriginal problems. But there are many people who, when looking at a program put forward in regard to Aboriginal affairs, are inclined to say: 'This is discrimination in favour of the Aborigines. The Aborigines do not want this discrimination. They want to be equal and to be like our children. Really the Aborigines do not need this, they do not want it and it is harmful'. 
How can Aboriginal people or children be equal? If one goes into a State high school in central western New South Wales- I do not propose to mention townships- one finds that four or five times as many Aboriginal children are attending today as were attending five or six years ago. That is a tribute to the Aboriginal secondary education grants started in the days of the previous Government and expanded under our Government. The people in those townships say that this is discrimination in favour of Aboriginal children, but if one goes to the places where some of the adults live and where some of these Aboriginal children live one finds very often that they live on a reserve and, notwithstanding the large amounts of money that have been devoted to Aboriginal housing, they may still live in a corrugated iron shed or shanty without electric light or a water supply. When one looks at the school rooms in these high schools, State or otherwise, one finds books stacked around the walls or on the desks. This is because the pupils of these schools do not take their school books home. They come from large families and live in poor standard accommodation. The younger children at home would tear up the school books, and the school children could not do their homework at home because there is no electric light there. If someone suggested to me that by abolishing this system of Aboriginal secondary education grants all those children would be made equal, I would remain to be convinced. 
I say to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs that this is the major task in Aboriginal Affairs: Notwithstanding the great amount of progress that yet has to be made and the leeway that yet has to be made up, the great task in Aboriginal Affairs is public relations. I find it very sad that we have not convinced large numbers of people in the 
Australian community that what this Government is doing or what its predecessor was doing is just and has to be done if Australia is to be the sort of nation to which we all aspire. No nation can be really great and really democratic and take its place in the world as an enlightened community if it has within its borders substantial numbers of people who are living in depressed circumstances. The Aboriginal people of this country for many years have been living in such circumstances. 
That is principally what I wish to say. I think that the Department and the Minister are to be congratulated on the increased allocation. I am heartened by the increased level of expertise in the Department. I hope for a more effective regional presence of departmental officers because I do not believe that other departments can carry out the co-ordinating role or the communications role- we still have a problem of communicating to Aboriginal people the programs that have been made available to them- of ensuring that Aboriginal people know that those programs are available. I am heartened to see, in this time of restraint in so many programs, that the Government obviously has given a high priority to Aboriginal Affairs. Like education and health, it obviously is one of the priority areas of the Government. I am very happy about that. I am pleased to see the progress that has been made and will be made. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8p.m. 

Progress reported. 
-Can the Minister for Defence inform the House whether there has been any recent support from an unexpected source for the Government's defence policy? 
-The speech by the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  has been a very political speech. He has not dealt with the Loan Bill in any analytical sense as a machinery measure, as part of the finance raising program of this Government as Loan Bills of previous governments were. He sought to obtain every ounce of political advantage out of the message which the Senate has sent to the House of Representatives and out of the delaying tactics which the Opposition applies to this Bill. It was an interesting speech. He said that the Government was not paying its bills. He gave no evidence of this. I have had in my office in recent times people who have said: 'Why is it I am told by the defence service homes people that I cannot have the advance for my home for 1 1 weeks or more?' How can this Government honestly say to people 'Yes, the money is available to you' when the Opposition is refusing to vote Supply? How can we say to these people 'Yes, go ahead, enter into this agreement to build or to buy ' when we do not know, due to the irresponsibility of the Opposition, whether we can meet that commitment? That is the only sense in which the Government at this point in time is not paying its bills. 
Of course it is a fact of life that in the future, as it projects before us, the Government may not be able to pay its bills. Supply will run out at sometime in November. If an election were called on- a half Senate election or whatever kind of election in the next few days- it is most unlikely that that election could be held before the first Saturday in December.  (Quorum formed)  I thank the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  for drawing attention to the state of the House. He came into the House somewhat belatedly and discovered that we were short of numbers. He has given me a rather larger audience than I had before, unhappily not very many of them on this side of the House. I was talking about the Government paying its Bills. I was pointing out that if Supply runs out it will be some weeks before an election can be held and the people in this nation who will be inconvenienced can lay their complaints at the door of the Opposition. The Opposition is trying to prevent this Budget getting into action. It complains that the Budget is not working but it has not passed the Budget or the Bills associated with the Budget. The Opposition is trying to prevent the economic recovery in this country. It is indifferent to the needs of business people, large and small, the working people, the pensioners, all the people in this country, the servicemen and the children attending schools. The Opposition is completely hypocritical on these matters. 
It is part of the facts of life that the Government of the day needs to raise loan money. If it were not to raise loan money- there have been many occasions when the previous Government lias not raised loan money or has raised money only to a small extent- then money has to be found from taxation. The Opposition made a great play of tax indexation. The only real tax indexation available to the people of this country is in the measures introduced as part of this Budget which are designed to take effect from 1 January next year, but of course to cover the whole of the financial year. When the Opposition comes into this Parliament and says it supports tax indexation and then votes against loan raising legislation of course it brings about a situation which would make tax indexation quite impossible. I should like to draw attention to the different bases on which the Opposition has made its criticism of this Bill. When it came before us on 27 August the shadow Treasurer raised the question of the record deficit on the basis of figures available as at 1 August. 
-The honourable member for Curtin might make those comments. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  a very distinguished Treasurer of a former government - 
-Is the Minister for Northern Australia able to inform the House as to the position in the Northern Territory when the money runs out? 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs I bring up the report of the Committee on Aboriginal health and related matters in the south-west of Western Australia, together with the minutes of proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I ask the Attorney-General: How does the Opposition's unprincipled decision to defer the Budget affect the workings of his Department? 
-On behalf of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs I bring up the report of the Committee entitled  Aboriginal UnemploymentSpecial Work Projects  together with the minutes of proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  on his long and thoughtful speech, most of which was devoted to the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill 1975. Honourable members on this side of the House share his regret that these Bills and more particularly the Aboriginal Land Bill and the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill have been brought down but from our side of the House we point out that this action was not what we would have chosen. The timetable for this year has been altered by the actions of the Opposition in threatening to refuse Supply in another place. All honourable members know that according to the proposed timetable last week and this week were to have been weeks when we should have been back in our electorates and when committees of this House could have been studying matters such as this. The Government has been obliged to change its legislative program. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  sent out, as I understand it, 1000 letters with the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill and he has also sent out documents on the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill in the hope that there would be sufficient time for replies to be received and to be studied but unfortunately there was not enough time. The honourable member for Wentworth rightly pointed out the importance of the land legislation which breaks new grounds in this country. On behalf of the Government I welcome his statement that the Opposition recognises and supports Aboriginal land rights in principle. I also welcome the recurrent theme throughout his speech that the wishes of Aboriginal people should wherever possible be taken into account. Time and time throughout his speech he made that point and of course there would be no argument about that from this side of the House. It is a point well taken. 
In this cognate debate on 3 Bills I will deal very briefly with the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill. This Bill makes modest increases in the amount of money to be made available to the States. There is an increase of $3.7m this year as against the previous year and in direct grants to Aboriginal organisations there is an increase of some S5m this year as against the previous year. Given the level of inflation in the community these grants provide much the same level of assistance as was provided the previous year. There are increases in some areas. It is hard to make comparisons because obviously the Department of Aboriginal Affairs has changed its system of classification of the assistance which it is giving. One notes, for example, a substantial decrease in money for Aboriginal employment in the Northern Territory and an enormous increase in money being made available for town management and public utilities- a new heading. So one presumes that in the light of experience the Department is upgrading its classifications. 
I would like to congratulate the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Department on the obviously improved administrative capacity in recent times. I regret the staff ceilings which are imposed on all government departments because this bites rather hard on a department such as the Department of Aboriginal Affairs which in recent times has had to accept massive new responsibilities. As the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs moves around the country and as I am sure honourable members do in their own electorates one regrets that the Department has as yet been unable to establish in many areas an effective regional presence. I am not attaching any blame to anyone for that. I merely record that it happens. The present staff ceilings and the present restraints do not help that position. In my view so much of the money which is spent through special works programs and through assistance to Aboriginal organisations could be more effectively spent and those organisations could be more effectively advised on how to spend that money if there were a more effective regional presence by the Department. I know that is a matter very dear to the Minister's heart. 
Another Bill before us, the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill, recognises a problem that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and former Ministers who held this portfolio have had since about 1968, and that is to provide a simple way of incorporating Aboriginal communities. Under this legislation, which also breaks new ground, groups will be able to incorporate for a greater number of purposes than under previous legislation. They can include Aboriginal customs in the rules of their association. There are 2 separate forms of corporate body spelt out in the Bill- Aboriginal Councils and Aboriginal Associations. Aboriginal councils are geographically based bodies and broadly speaking the equivalent of local government bodies under State laws. This part of the Bill supplements the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill. In other words, it sets up the framework whereby an Aboriginal local government structure can be set under way in the Northern Territory. 
The second form of corporate body recognised in the Bill is Aboriginal Associations. These may be formed for any legal purpose including the running of a business. The Bill will also establish a Registrar of Aboriginal Corporations who will maintain registers of Aboriginal councils and incorporated Aboriginal Associations. The Registrar also will assist and advise Aboriginal groups and communities and provide help and training to them. The purpose of this legislation is to recognise and set out in a somewhat simpler form than applies in the existing State laws the fact that Aborigines do not have the sophistication and business experience to comply with many of the complex and technical requirements of State laws. This legislation should prove a very useful step forward in assisting Aborigines to incorporate. It has relevance not only to the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill but also to other legislation. The Aboriginal Lands Commission will follow the Aboriginal Capital Fund established by the former Government. It also will benefit the Aboriginal communities which are able to incorporate in the way that this Bill sets out. 
I want to come back to the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill 1975 to which the honourable member for Wentworth devoted much of his speech. Labor Party policy is to give land to 2 distinct groups of Aboriginal people. On reserves traditional land ownership is recognised. Elsewhere in the Northern Territory, and one thinks for example of Wattie Creek which is outside a reserve, the existence of stable Aboriginal communities is recognised. Those Aboriginal communities need not necessarily be communities with a traditional association. I think I also should point out that the existing tenure on reserves is not secure. The fact that vast areas of the Northern Territory are Aboriginal reserves results from decisions made by the GovernorGeneral in Council, by the Executive Council. Most of those reserves were set up in the early 1930s. 
I think it is fair to say that until recent years Aboriginal people who lived on these reserves never had the ownership of their land in doubt. They quite sincerely and genuinely believed that they owned the land. They knew, for example, that at times policemen would come in to apprehend lawbreakers; they went through the experience of the Second World War when defence establishments were set up in many part of Aboriginal reserves, in Arnhem Land and elsewhere in the Northern Territory. But people went there for a particular purpose. Maybe, as in the case of defence, people were there for a substantial time but then they went away. Aboriginal land ownership was not in doubt. 
In recent years we have seen the development of mining. The development that most of us have had a particular interest in is that on the Gove Peninsula where there are vast bauxite deposits. Aboriginal people were confronted for the first time with the presence of outsiders which would be permanent and which would change the landscape for all time. Aboriginal land would never be the same again and no Aboriginal who lived there could honestly believe that he owned that land. The vast enterprises on areas that had been stripped of bauxite and perhaps were being rehabilitated, the presence of conveyor belts and other plant and the vast industrial enterprise that has been established there, together with all the other equipment and roads, are all an affront to Aboriginal ownership. 
This Bill breaks completely new ground and no doubt it will be found that there are imperfections in it. The Labor Party's Aboriginal Affairs Committee has gone through the Bill very carefully with officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the Minister and his staff and we turned over many of these questions in our own minds. I think it is fair to say that some of these matters will be resolved only by experience. Unlike New Zealand which has an experience in Maori land laws going back many decades, or perhaps a hundred years, this legislation breaks new ground. It does so very largely because although all States except Queensland have accepted Aboriginal land rights in some way, the Northern Territory has the overwhelming number of traditionally oriented people and for them land rights are very much a different matter. They are a matter of life and death. They are quite different from the land rights of Aborigines in a community like Cherbourg, near Brisbane, for example- and I do not denigrate in any way the right of the people of Cherbourg to own their own land. 
This Bill is to be part of our law and as such is alien to much of Aboriginal tradition and culture. I think that point is well made. We are trying to do something quite new. There are 2 things that worry me and one of them is the complexity of the Bill. I note that the Minister for Aboriginal 
Affairs circulated a statement which explains in fairly simple terms to Aboriginal communities what the Bill is about. I found as a non-legal person the Bill a tremendously complex piece of legislation. This is a matter of regret and I am told by the legal people that it is impossible to write a simple Bill to cater for a problem as complex as Aboriginal land rights. It is a pity that the Bill is so complex. 
The other point that worries me is that given the way in which the proposed new system is formalised in the Bill I am concerned that in some Aboriginal eyes we may be giving them something less than they expect. In other words, until a comparatively few years ago their right to own their traditional land was not in doubt but in this legislation we are giving them a complex system. They will be obliged to go through a system of Land Trusts and Land Councils. However, I do not know what else can be done. The Bill very clearly spells out that all these people comprising the Aboriginal Land Commissioner, the Land Councils and the Land Trusts are required to respect the wishes of the traditional owners. It is very difficult to be explicit about these things because the wishes of the owners of Aboriginal land, not all of them traditional owners, will vary a great deal. 
I listened with interest to the honourable member for Wentworth talking about the views of the Bagot community on access to the beach. I thought how unrepresentative that view would be of a number of other Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory. Those are problems that can be met only by a Land Council that is close to the people in a very real way. There are some matters that are going to be worked out by experience. One is the question of land use where Land Councils are required to respect the wishes of traditional owners. The question of permits is a complex one. The law provides that the permits will be issued by the Land Council but it can delegate. Obviously in a place like Bagot it would be quite possible to delegate authority to some person or group of persons at Bagot to make the decision. 
On the other hand, if we consider isolated communities well away from Darwin or Alice Springs, the Land Councils should be able to understand the wishes of the land-owning group, the circumstances in which it would be prepared to issue or reject permits. The legislation very clearly places on Land Councils the obligation to take those wishes into account. In a case like Yirrkala where the actual demand for permits to enter the reserve comes almost exclusively from people who live in Nhulunbuy, to issue permits in Darwin would be complete nonsense except in the case of people who wish to come from Darwin. In a case like that obviously the Aboriginal Land Council would delegate the right to issue permits to the local Aboriginal Council at Yirrkala which might presumably establish some representation in Nhulunbuy for that purpose. 
The other matter of concern relates to royalties and other payments. Land Councils are to be required to keep maps and records of traditional land ownership. From our own experience I think we all know that the traditional land owners find very little dispute as to the boundaries of the various land owning clans. But in the actual practical exercise of who gets royalty for gravel or granite taken from a particular place, or timber cut from a particular place, that is something that will have to be worked out by experience. 
I emphasise that the legislation places a responsibility on land councils that they must remain close to the people, that they must not become an isolated bureaucracy in Darwin, Alice Springs or wherever a land council, at the Minister's discretion, might be established. The Aboriginal Land Commissioner has a great deal of flexibility in his operation. The honourable member for Wentworth pointed out that no guidelines were spelt out for him in the Bill. Essentially, of course, he recommends to the Minister. This has been deliberately done to give him a great deal of flexibility because again he breaks new ground in what he would be required to do. 
The legislation reserves to the Minister consent and approval for many of these matters in respect of title, boundaries to land councils and the like. I think that is only proper because the Minister represents the Parliament and he will, I know, be watching the future progress of this legislation and the organisations set up under it with great interest and care. Given the fact that this legislation breaks new ground, there must be continued scrutiny on behalf of the Minister and a flexible attitude on behalf of the Parliament to alter this legislation as may be necessary in the future in the light of experience to serve the needs of Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory. 
I make the point again that it is sad that we are obliged to proceed with this legislation rather more quickly than the Government would have hoped. There is no doubt that there will be imperfections in the Bill but I do not doubt for one minute that the legislation is as good as it could possibly be made by the dedication and hard work of those people in the Department and the advice that they sought from the land councils. I trust that in the future the Parliament will very frequently look at the working of this legislation with a view to making whatever changes might be necessary. I certainly know that that is the view of the Australian Labor Party. We hope that we are in this legislation setting up an effective instrument in the interests of the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory and the. Aboriginal people of Australia. We hope that we are setting up the instrument which the States will copy in their own areas of responsibility. 
This legislation has been a long time in the making. I believe that the Bills before us are epoch making. I support them with very great enthusiasm. I hope that it will be possible for us to pass them through both Houses of the Parliament as soon as possible because one thing that is certain is that the question of land rights is a test of the credibility of this Government and every government. It is something that the Aboriginal people are calling for above everything else. 
I listened with great interest to the comments made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  As with previous clauses he has suggested- I am now referring to clause 40- that the land trusts, the local people, would be subject to the wishes of the Darwin dominated land council. It is true that the northern land council will be constructed by the wishes of the people on a geographical basis and the southern land council on a more tribalised basis. These land councils have now operated for 2 years. I have no direct experience of them but certainly according to the officers of the Department who have attended meetings of the councils, they have bent over backwards to ensure that the wishes of the local land owning clans are respected. 
I think when one refers, as the honourable member for Mackellar did, to the fact that people from Arnhem Land are being associated with people from Port Keats that it is again in the hands of the Minister, if it should seem desirable, to set up such other land councils as would ensure that no particular interest group dominated other interest groups. I think anyone can cast doubts on how well or otherwise some of these things will work. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  has already indicated that he will be watching the operation of this legislation with great interest and great care. Obviously if any of these things start going astray the legislation would have to be changed. But at this point for almost 2 years these land councils, working without any legislation at all, in the view of the officers of the Department who have been watching them and working with them, have bent over backwards to respect the views of the local land owning clans. 
